The status report in this regard shall be submitted to this Court within a period of three months from today. [Para 161] Wild Life (Protection) Act, 1972 – Enactment of – Purpose. Held: The enactment of the WLP Act was necessitated since it was noticed that there was rapid decline of India’s wild animals and birds, which was one of the richest and most varied in the world – The Wild Birds and Animals Protection Act, 1912 had become completely outmoded – The existing State laws were not only outdated but provided punishments that were not commensurate with the offence and the financial benefits which accrue from poaching and trade in wildlife produce – However, since the subject matters were relatable to Entry 20 of the State list in the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution of India, the Parliament had no power to make a law unless the Legislatures of two or more States passed a resolution in pursuance of Article 252 of the Constitution – Accordingly, 11 States had passed resolutions to that effect – In this background, the WLP Act came to be enacted – The entire emphasis of the WLP Act is on the conservation, protection, and management of wildlife. [Paras 9, 10, 46] 192 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Environment – Environmental justice – Need to drift away from anthropocentrism principle to ecocentrism principle. Held: The approach has to be ecocentric and not anthropocentric – The approach has to be nature-centred where humans are a part of nature and non-humans have intrinsic value – National Wildlife Action Plan 2002-2012 and the Centrally Sponsored Integrated Development of Wildlife Habitats Scheme, 2009 are centred on the principle of ecocentrism. [Para 69, 91] Environment – Environmental and ecological protection – Principle of sustainable development – Discussed. [Para 77] Environment – ‘Public Trust’ doctrine – Importance of, in environmental and ecological matters – Discussed. [Para 134, 135, 136, 138] Environment – Forest – Restoration of the damaged ecological system – Role of the State – Principle of Ecological Restitution – Discussed – Convention on Biological Diversity, 1992. Held : Worldwide as well as in our jurisprudence, the law has developed and evolved emphasizing on the restoration of the damaged ecological system – A reversal of environmental damage in conformity with the principle under Article 8(f) of the Convention on Biological Diversity, 1992 (CBD) is what is required – The focus has to be on restoration of the ecosystem as close and similar as possible to the specific one that was damaged – Bringing the culprits to face the proceedings is a different matter and restoration of the damage already done is a different matter – The State cannot run away from its responsibilities to restore the damage done to the forest – The State, apart from preventing such acts in the future, should take immediate steps for restoration of the damage already done; undertake an exercise for determining the valuation of the damage done and recover it from the persons found responsible for causing such a damage.