A person who alleges the breach of the principle of natural justice is required to dispute the case against him in to establish prejudice. In the cases where facts are not in dispute, the courts ought to refrain from passing of remand. Lastly, the exception of prejudice must be more than the reasonable suspicion and should exist as strongly as a matter of fact. 44. In the narration of the facts as discussed above, it is clear that the appellants have emphasized on their non-joinder at the initial stage before the Collector. A bare perusal of the passed by the Collector reflects that it is based on the counter-affidavit filed by the Janpad Panchayat whereby it is established that the appellants were related to the members of the selection committee. Subsequently, the collector held the process to be vitiated by bias by applying the test of reasonable likelihood of bias. Once again, upon challenge being made by the appellants before the revisional authority, their relationship with the members of the selection committee was not disputed yet violation of doctrine of audi altrem partem was alleged merely due to non-joinder. After hearing them, the plea of non- impleadment did not find force before the revisional authority and the challenge did not succeed. Aggrieved appellants moved a writ petition before the High Court where ample opportunity was given by learned Single Judge and they were allowed to inspect the records. Thus, an opportunity to controvert the findings of the Collector and the Commissioner and factual narration thereof was duly afforded. After sufficient opportunities given by the Ld. Single Judge, the 190 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports appellants neither denied their relationship with the members of the selection committee nor demonstrated that how the findings are perverse or contrary to record, causing any prejudice to them. 45. In the sequel of above factual narration, first limb of natural justice that is ‘rule against bias’ was proved as reasonable likelihood of bias was fully established irrefutably. The violation of another limb i.e. audi alteram partem, which is procedural, has been prayed by the appellants on the pretext of their non-joinder at the initial stage; in my opinion, without showing prejudice mere non-joinder even at initial stage does not violate the natural justice doctrine in the case at hand. 46. As discussed, time and again, Indian Courts have emphasized that procedural formalities can be dispensed with when facts are admitted and undisputed and no apparent prejudice is caused to the parties from the alleged non-compliance of the procedure. The Courts have propounded ‘useless formality’ theory which revolves around the idea that in cases where there are admitted or undisputed facts, procedures and formalities may lose their relevance or serve no meaningful purpose, since the outcome may be no different in the absence thereof. This Court in M/s. Escorts Farms (Ramgarh) Ltd. v. Commissioner, Kumaon Division, Nainital, U.P. & Ors. 2004 (4) SCC 281 observed that “rules of natural justice are to be followed for doing substantial justice and not for completing a mere ritual of hearing without possibility of any change in the decision of the case on merits”.