In such cases, courts have the flexibility to appropriately shape reliefs. Having clarified the position of law, we now apply the tests outlined above to the question concerning Article 31-C before us. 69. By Section 4 of the Forty-Second Amendment the words “the principles specified in clause (b) or clause (c) of article 39” in Article 31-C were replaced with the words “all or any of the principles laid down in Part IV.” This is a case of substitution. Section 4 of the Forty-Second Amendment was subsequently struck down in Minerva Mills. As 92 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports noted above, where an amendment substituting certain text with certain alternate text is invalidated, the effect is that the unamended text continues in force. This is because the legislative intent of repeal and enactment in such cases is composite and cannot be separated. To give effect to the repeal and not the enactment would result in an outcome which does not correlate with legislative intent, and, as Justice Hidayatullah noted in Laxmibai “leave the original section truncated” resulting in absurd outcomes. This would in effect invalidate the original, valid and constitutional provision despite there being no constitutional fault with it nor the legislature intending to repeal it. Thus, the presumption would be that after Minerva Mills, the unamended Article 31-C would continue in force. Indeed, it is evident that cases such as Bhim Singh and Sanjeev Coke proceeded on this presumption. 70. The only plausible exception to this presumption would be if it could be demonstrated that Parliament, when enacting the Forty-Second Amendment would have repealed the words “the principles specified in clause (b) or clause (c) of article 39” independent of their enactment of the words “all or any of the principles laid down in Part IV.” In this case, no reference to the broader legislative proceedings or external aids is necessary to arrive at the inference that Parliament would not have independently repealed these words. The text of the amendment adopted by Parliament itself makes it abundantly clear that there was no independent intention to repeal. The effect of Section 4 of the Forty-Second Amendment was to expand the scope of the immunity provided by Article 31-C to legislation. Under the unamended Article 31-C, immunity was only provided to legislation if it gave effect to the Directive Principles found in clause (b) or clause (c) of Article 39. However, by Section 4 of the Forty-Second Amendment, the scope of this immunity was significantly expanded to immunise legislations that gave effect to any or all of the Directive Principles in Part IV of the Constitution. Thus, the intention of Parliament in enacting Section 4 of the constitutional amendment was undoubtedly to expand the scope of the immunity granted by Article 31-C. This being the situation, it cannot be suggested that Parliament would have repealed the words “the principles specified in clause (b) or clause (c) of article 39” if it did not simultaneously enact the broader language expanding the scope of Article 31-C.