3 to 13 herein. 52.1. This contention was however refuted by the learned counsel Ms. Shobha Gupta by reiterating her submission that the expression “may require” in sub-section (2) of Section 432 of the CrPC ought to be read as “shall require”. This is evident from the dicta of this Court. In this regard, reliance was placed on certain s of this Court which we shall advert to in the first instance as under: (i) In Sangeet, it was observed that before actually exercising the power of remission under Section 432 of the CrPC, the appropriate Government must obtain the opinion (with reasons) of the Presiding Judge of the convicting or confirming Court. Remissions can, therefore, be given only on a case-by-case basis and not in a wholesale manner. (ii) Further, in V. Sriharan, it was observed that the declaration of law made by this Court in Sangeet referred to above, is correct and further the procedure to be followed under Section 432(2) of the CrPC is mandatory. The manner in which the opinion is to be rendered by the Presiding Judge can always be regulated and settled by the concerned High Court and the Supreme Court by stipulating the required procedure to be followed as and when any such application is forwarded by the appropriate Government. Therefore, it was observed that the suo motu power of remission cannot be exercised under Section 432(1) of the CrPC and it can only be initiated based on an application of the person convicted under Section 432(2) of the CrPC and the ultimate of remission should be guided by the opinion to be rendered by the Presiding Officer of the Court concerned. [2024] 1 S.C.R. 891 Bilkis Yakub Rasool v. Union of India & Others (iii) This Court, in Ram Chander, has specifically dealt with the value of the opinion of the Presiding Judge with reference to paragraph 61 of Sangeet and paragraphs 148 and 149 of V. Sriharan referred to above and observed in paragraphs 25 and 26 as under: “25. In Sriharan (supra), the Court observed that the opinion of the presiding judge shines a light on the nature of the crime that has been committed, the record of the convict, their background and other relevant factors. Crucially, the Court observed that the opinion of the presiding judge would enable the government to take the ‘right’ decision as to whether or not the sentence should be remitted. Hence, it cannot be said that the opinion of the presiding judge is only a relevant factor, which does not have any determinative effect on the application for remission. The purpose of the procedural safeguard under Section 432 (2) of the CrPC would stand defeated if the opinion of the presiding judge becomes just another factor that may be taken into consideration by the government while deciding the application for remission. It is possible then that the procedure under Section 432 (2) would become a mere formality. 26. However, this is not to say that the appropriate government should mechanically follow the opinion of the presiding judge.