In a mobile network, when a connection is to be established it is the MSC which determines another switch depending on the current location of the mobile subscriber. For this purpose, MSC is also connected to local network for each subscriber so as to implement the numbering plan. The area from which the call emanates, the identification of the nature of the call whether from mobile or fixed wireline is all done by the computer having the requisite software in MSC.” 11.11.8 In this regard, we may also note the finding given by the CESTAT which has not been disturbed by the Bombay High Court regarding the contention of the Assessee that towers are essential parts of the antennas and as such without tower, the antennas cannot be placed at appropriate and requisite height to receive and send signals and since [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1593 M/s Bharti Airtel Ltd. v. The Commissioner of Central Excise, Pune towers are essential for the functioning of antennas, towers should be treated as accessories of antennas. The CESTAT did not find the said contention of Assessee acceptable on the ground that tower cannot be considered to be a part of antenna, since a component or part of any goods means something which is required to make such goods a finished item. The CESTAT held that only those articles which would go into the composition of another article can be considered to be component or part of the latter and that tower does not enter into the composition of the antenna and hence it is not a component/part of the antenna, relying on the decision of this Court in Saraswati Sugar Mills v. Commissioner of Central Excise, Delhi-III (2014) 15 SCC 625). In the aforesaid case of Saraswati Sugar Mills (supra) it was held by this Court that anything required to make the goods a finished item can be described as component or part of the finished item. It was held that iron and steel structures would not go into the composition of vacuum pans, crystallizers etc. If an article is an element in the composition of another article made out of it, such an article may be described as a component of another article. Thus, structures in question in the said case did not satisfy the description of ‘component’. 11.11.9 While there can be no dispute about the aforesaid proposition, we are of the view that it cannot be the only criterion to determine what amounts to component of another article. In for any article to be considered a component of another article, it does not necessarily mean that it has to be consumed or used up for producing the said another article as in the case of a manufacturing process. In our considered opinion, a component of any good would also mean to include those which make the good fully functional and make such a good more effective as observed in M/s. Annapurna Carbon Industries Co. (supra), wherein this Court held that an accessory would mean an object or a device that is not essential in itself but that adds to the beauty or convenience or effectiveness of something else or is supplementary or secondary to something of greater or primary importance, which assists in operating or controlling the said good, and thus serves as its accessory.