b) Casual Leave to be increased from 10 days per year to 12 days per year. c) Privilege Leave to be increased from 15 days per year to 33 days per year. d) Paternity Leave to be introduced to 7 days per year. 12. Mediclaim Policy to the Family Members: The family of the Employees who falls out of purview of ESI Act shall be provided with a General Insurance Mediclaim Policy to the family members amounting to Rs.3 lacs only. 13. Gratuity: The Gratuity of the Employees should be increased to 30 days per year instead of 15 days per year. 14. Housing Loan facility: The. Employees who have completed his 5 years of service or more should be entitled to Housing Loan @ 5% per annum or a rebate of @.5 % per annum on the loan availed in any Bank or Society. 15. Personal Loan Facility: The Employees who have completed his 2 years of service or more should be entitled to Personal Loan @9% per annum or a rebate of @ 5% per annum on the loan availed from any Bank or Society.” 4. The Tribunal, in its award passed on 29.03.2014, granted relief to the employees represented by the union under the following heads and in the following manner:- 582 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports "i) Reference is answered partly in affirmative. ii) The following demands raised by the Second Party Workmen are granted as follows:- 1) Demand No. 5:- House Rent(Remuneration) Allowance- The First Party Company is directed to increase the HRA to 20% of the basic wages and dearness allowance or to Rs.2000/- per month whichever is higher. 2) Demand No.6:- Shift Allowance- The First Party Company is directed to pay the shift allowance to all the workers irrespective of any shift they worked, as follows:- 1st Shift Allowance - Rs.20/- 2nd Shift Allowance - Rs.30/- 3rd Shift Allowance - Rs.50/- This allowance will not be reckoned for provident fund, HRA, Leave encashment, bonus, gratuity, overtime, etc. or any other benefits. 3) Demand No. 7:- Travelling Conveyance Allowance- This demand is allowed partly. The First Party Company is directed to increase this allowance from Rs. 600 to Rs.800 per month. This allowance will not be reckoned for provident fund, HRA, Leave encashment, bonus, gratuity, overtime, etc. or any other benefits. 4) Demand No.8:- Medical Allowance This demand is allowed partly. The First Party Company is directed to pay the medical allowance @ Rs.1000/- per month to all categories of workmen, who fall out of the purview of the ESI Act. This allowance will not be reckoned for provident fund, HRA, Leave encashment, bonus, gratuity, overtime, etc. or any other benefits. 5) Demand No. 9:- Education Allowance- This demand is allowed partly. The First Party Company is directed to pay the education [2024] 4 S.C.R. 583 The VVF Ltd. Employees Union v. M/S. VVF India Limited & Anr. allowance @ Rs.1000/- per month to all the workmen whose children are studying in school or college or even doing higher studies.