This question would obviously require a deep scrutiny, having regard to the materials on record and the objection to the maintainability of the RPs specifically raised by the respondent landowners. In the eyes of an unsuspecting person, obviously the review petitioners are persons aggrieved because of declaration of land acquisition proceedings initiated by them as deemed to have lapsed. But, as is evident from the factual narrative, the dates on which the High Court had disposed of the writ petitions by declaring that the land acquisition proceedings were deemed to have lapsed, it is the law laid down by a binding authority, i.e., Pune Municipal Corporation (supra) that was holding the field at the relevant time and which the High Court applied in reaching its conclusions. This Court too had dismissed the Civil Appeals and the Special Leave Petitions bearing in mind that the issue raised was no longer res integra in view of 1002 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Pune Municipal Corporation (supra). If indeed the s and s were right, could the review petitioners be categorized as aggrieved persons? 108. For the reason that the s and s under review were right on the dates they were rendered, we do not consider the review petitioners as persons aggrieved who can maintain a review petition citing either Manoharlal [5-Judge, lapse] and Shailendra [3-Judge] (supra). We, however, hold that the review petitioners can yet be considered persons aggrieved for what we proceed to say and hold immediately hereafter. 109. Insofar as question (e) is concerned, which has been framed based on the arguments of Mr. Sen, it is true that the RPs include under the caption ‘GROUNDS’ reference to points which, according to the review petitioners, are sufficient to review the s/s under review, apart from reference to the so-called ‘liberty’ granted by this Court vide Shailendra [3-Judge] (supra). Mr. Sen thus argued that even if the RPs are held not to be maintainable based on Shailendra [3-Judge] (supra) and Manoharlal [5-Judge, lapse] (supra), the same ought to be decided upon consideration of such other grounds; and, for such purpose, the larger Bench may remit the RPs for being considered by an appropriate Bench on such other grounds. Viewed in the light of such contention, the review petitioners are persons aggrieved and the RPs cannot be shut out on the ground that the same are not maintainable for reasons discussed above. However, this finding does not take the cause of the review petitioners any forward. 110. We have perused the ‘GROUNDS’ in each of the RPs opposed by Mr. Divan and Mr. Giri. All such grounds are factual in nature. In fact, the review petitioners have raised ‘GROUNDS’ without even averring what was pleaded in their counter affidavits filed before the High Court and what were the defences raised which, because of non-consideration by this Court, could be said to amount to an error apparent on the face of the record. The RPs are silent as to on which specific ground referrable to Rule 1 of XLVII the review has been asked for.