Only when it comes to a conclusion that overwhelming public interest requires interference, the court should intervene. 103. As has been held by this Court in the case of Tata Cellular (supra), the Court is not only concerned with the merits of the decision but also with the decision-making process. Unless the Court finds that the decision-making process is vitiated by arbitrariness, mala fides, irrationality, it will not be permissible for the Court to interfere with the same. 104. In the present case, the decision-making process, as adopted by the BEC was totally in conformity with the principles laid down by this Court from time to time. The BEC after considering the competitive rates offered in the bidding process in various States came to a conclusion that the rates quoted by SKS Power (L-5 bidder) were not market aligned. The said decision has been approved by the State Commission. Since the decision-making process adopted by the BEC, which has been approved by the State Commission, was in accordance with the law laid down by this Court, the same ought not to have been interfered with by the learned APTEL. 105. In any case, the High Court, by the impugned and , could not have issued a mandamus to the instrumentalities of the State to enter into a contract, which was totally harmful to the public 972 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports interest. Inasmuch as, if the power/electricity is to be procured by the procurers at the rates quoted by the respondent No.1-MB Power, which is even higher than the rates quoted by the SKS Power (L-5 bidder), then the State would have been required to bear financial burden in thousands of crore rupees, which would have, in turn, passed on to the consumers. As such, we are of the considered view that the mandamus issued by the Court is issued by failing to take into consideration the larger consumers’ interest and the consequential public interest. We are, therefore, of the view that the impugned and passed by the High Court is not sustainable in law and deserves to be quashed and set aside. CIVIL APPEAL NO. 6503 OF 2022 AND CIVIL APPEAL NO. 6502 OF 2022 106. The appeals are, therefore, allowed. The impugned and of the Division Bench of the High Court of Judicature for Rajasthan, Bench at Jaipur dated 20th September 2021 in D.B. Civil Writ Petition No. 14815 of 2020 is quashed and set aside. The respondent No.1-M.B. Power (Madhya Pradesh) Limited is directed to pay costs, quantified at Rs.5,00,000/- (Rupees Five Lakh) in each case to the appellants. 107. Pending applications, if any, shall stand disposed of. CIVIL APPEAL NO. 4612 OF 2023 108. Since we have already set aside the and of the High Court dated 20th September 2021 in D.B. Civil Writ Petition No.14815 of 2020 and the impugned in the present appeal is based on the said of the High Court dated 20th September 2021, the present appeal is also allowed.