Article 46 states that the State shall promote with special care the educational and economic interests of the weaker sections of the people, and, in particular, of the Scheduled Castes 1626 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports and the Scheduled Tribes, and shall protect them from social injustice and all forms of exploitation. 50. Thus, the terms “Scheduled Castes” and “Scheduled Tribes” are used in Article 15(4) along with the “socially and educationally backward classes of citizens”, used in Article 16(4A) exclusively and used in Article 46 along with “weaker sections of people”. However, the term “backward class” is used in Article 16(4) only. Further, Article 340 empowers the President to appoint a Commission to investigate the conditions of Socially and Educationally Backward Classes within the territory of India and to make recommendations as to the steps that should be taken by the Union or any State to remove the difficulties of the members of such class. As discussed in detail earlier, Article 341 empowers the President to issue notification specifying the Scheduled Castes in relation to the States and Union Territory. Similar provision is found in Article 342 for the Scheduled Tribes. Article 342A inserted by the Constitution (One Hundred and Second Amendment Act, 2018) with effect from 14th August, 2018, empowers the President to specify the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes in the Central List which are deemed to be Socially and Educationally Backward Classes in relation to that State or Union Territory as the case may be. By virtue of the Constitution (One Hundred and Fifth) Amendment Act, 2021, an explanation to Clause (2) and new Clause (3) have been added to Article 342(A). The difference between the Article 341, 342 and 342A is that, whereas the notifications issued under Article 341 and 342 cannot be varied except by the Parliament by law, the newly added Clause (3) of Article 342A permits the State or Union Territory by law, to prepare and maintain for its own purposes a list of Socially and Educationally Backward Classes entries which may be different from the Central List. 51. The mandate contained in Clause (2) of Article 341 specifically prohibits any variation in the notification issued under Clause(1) thereof, except by Parliament by law. There is no provision in the Constitution which would empower the States to make any variation in such notification issued under Clause (1) of Article 341,for the purpose of reservations under Article 15 or 16. It cannot be gainsaid that as per Article 162, the executive power of a State would extend to the matters with respect to which the Legislature of [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1627 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. the State has power to make laws. The Proviso to the said Article states that in any matter with respect to which the Legislature of a State and Parliament have power to make laws, the executive power of the State shall be subject to, and limited by, the executive power expressly conferred by the Constitution or by any law made by Parliament upon the Union or authorities thereof.