Therefore, the question of overcharging does not arise at all as the Respondent-IOCL has been charged the freight charges as per the then prevailing existing fares and freights of the time and consequently, the Respondent-IOCL cannot raise any claim for compensation under Section 106 of the Railway Act, 1989. 4. Even assuming and without admitting to the case of the Respondent-IOCL, if the Respondent-IOCL is able to present a case for being overcharged and thus Section 106 of the Railways Act, 1989 to be applicable, the case of the Respondent-IOCL is barred from raising any claim as per the provisions of Section 106 of the Railways Act, 1989 on the ground of delay. 1070 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 5. It is also pertinent to take a close look at the facts of the following case laws: a. In Birla Cement Works v. G.M., Western Railways and Another’, the Petitioner earlier used to transport through metre-gauge from the railway siding at Chanderia. However, after conversion into broad-gauge the railway siding was at Difthkola Chittor Broad-Gauge Rail Link, which lead to an increase of 34 km, which was added to the freight charges. The Petitioner had belatedly raised its claim under Section 78-B of the Railway Act, 1890 (pari materia to Section 106 of the Railways Act, 1989) and were thus barred by limitation. The principal contention raised by the Petitioner was that it had discovered the mistake when the railway authorities confirmed by their letter that they had committed a mistake in charging excess freight on wrong calculation of distance. The limitation started running from the date of discovery and therefore stands excluded and that Section 78-B of the Railway Act, 1890 had no application to the facts. However, this Hon’ble Court held that since admittedly the claims of the Petitioner were made under Section 78-B of the Railway Act, 1890 beyond a period of six months, the claim had become barred by limitation. It should be mentioned that the facts of Birla Cement would have only been applicable in the present Petition if there was a case of overcharging. However, as the Respondent had booked according to the prevailing freight charges at that time, the facts of Birla Cement does not arise at all. b. In Union of India and Others v. West Coast Paper Mills Ltd and Another (III), the Respondents were being charged a flat rate irrespective of the commodity carried and were [2024] 3 S.C.R. 1071 Union of India v. M/s Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. not given the benefit of telescopic system of rates which was allowed by the Railways to others. This led to a scenario wherein the Respondents had to pay freight on certain goods at three times compared to what would have been payable in case the benefit of telescopic system of rates was allowed to them. This was construed to be an illegal and unreasonable charge. Reference is made to paragraph 20 of the Judgement: “20. In the case at hand, the freight rates notified by the Railway Administration in exercise of its statutory power to do so, so long as they were not declared illegal and unreasonable by the Tribunal under Section 41 of the Act, were legal and anyone carrying the goods by rail was liable to pay the freight in accordance with those rates.