Digital Supreme Court Reports (2-Judge Bench) wherein it was expounded that the provisions of Section14 of the Limitation Act are to advance the cause of justice and must be interpreted to do so rather than abort proceedings. 17. It has been further submitted that in light of the facts of the present case, the Plaintiff is entitled to exclusion of time consumed in pursuing their remedy before the learned Tehsildar, in view of Section 14(2) of the Limitation Act. The filing of the application by the predecessor of the Plaintiff before the Tehsildar for implementation of the and decree dated 09.10.1986 was under a genuine bona fide belief and in good faith that the Tehsildar possess the jurisdiction to execute decrees passed by a Civil Court. 18. In lieu of this conspectus, it has been submitted that previous recourse to a mistaken remedy or selection of a wrong forum by the Plaintiff cannot be said to be bereft of bona fides, due diligence or lacking in good faith. 19. Further, it is not disputed that in view of Section 105 and 112 of the Land Revenue Act, the Court of learned Tehsildar, Settlement, has all the trappings of a Court and thus would fall within the scope and ambit of the expression “Court” for the purpose of Section14 of the Limitation Act. 20. Lastly, in view of the facts submitted above, it would be a travesty of justice, if, on mere technicalities, the Plaintiff is deprived from reaping the fruits of the decree. Submissions on behalf of the Respondent 21. Learned counsel for the Respondents has vehemently opposed the stand taken by the Plaintiff. It has been submitted that the Plaintiff is taking this plea for the first time before this Court and did not raise the plea of Section 14 of the Limitation Act before the Courts below. 22. It was a deliberate act of wilful disobedience at the Plaintiff’s end and the plea of Section 14 of the Limitation Act ought to have been raised at the very first instance. 23. It is further submitted that the Plaintiff herein has not approached the Court with clean hands. They have concealed the fact that they did not enter appearance in the Second Appeal and thereafter, had filed an application for setting aside the ex-parte , which was allowed, and only thereafter, the second appeal was dismissed vide [2024] 4 S.C.R. 43 Purni Devi & Anr. v. Babu Ram & Anr. the impugned . This Court in M.P. Steel (Supra) has reiterated that ‘due diligence’ and ‘good faith’ means that the party who invokes Section 14 is not guilty of negligence, lapse or inaction. Issue before this Court 24. In view of the submissions raised, the issue which arises for consideration of this Court is as to whether the period (18.12.2000 to 29.01.2005) diligently pursuing execution petition before the Tehsildar, would be excluded for the purposes of computing the period of limitation or not. Analysis & Consideration 25. The relevant portion of Section 14 of the Limitation Act is extracted as under, for ready reference: “Section 14.