The General Assembly of the United Nations upon extensive discussions and 2 [2003] 1 SCR 397 : (2003) 2 SCC 412 500 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports negotiations among governments on this scope and content thereof adopted the guidelines which inter alia provide for the following: “Taking into account the interests and needs of consumers in all countries, particularly those in developing countries, recognizing that consumers often face imbalances in economic terms, educational level, and bargaining power, and bearing in mind that consumer should have the right of access to non-hazardous products, as well as the importance of promoting just, equitable and sustainable economic and social development, these guidelines for consumer protection have the following objectives: (a) To assist countries in achieving or maintaining adequate protection for their population as consumers. (b) To facilitate production and distribution patterns responsive to the needs and desires of consumers. (c) To encourage high levels of ethical conduct for those engaged in the production and distribution of goods and services to consumers. (d) To assist countries in curbing abusive business practices by all enterprises at the national and international levels which adversely affect consumers. (e) To facilitate the development of independent consumer groups. (f) To further international cooperation in the field of consumer protection. (g) To encourage the development of market conditions which provide consumers with greater choice at lower prices.” 7. The framework for the Consumer Act was provided by a resolution dated 9-4-1985 of the General Assembly of the United Nations Organisation. This is known as “Consumer Protection Resolution No. 39/248”. India is a signatory to the said Resolution. [2024] 6 S.C.R. 501 Bar of Indian Lawyers Through its President Jasbir Singh Malik v. D. K. Gandhi PS National Institute of Communicable Diseases and Anr. 8. The said Act was enacted having regard to the aforementioned Resolution. 9. It seeks to provide for better protection of the interests of consumers and for the said purpose, to make provision for the establishment of Consumer Councils and other authorities for the settlement of consumer disputes and for matters connected therewith, as would appear from the Statement of Objects and Reasons of the Act. 10. It further seeks inter alia to promote and protect the rights of consumers such as— "(a) The right to be protected against marketing of goods which are hazardous to life and property; (b) the right to be informed about the quality, quantity, potency, purity, standard and price of goods to protect the consumer against unfair trade practices; (c) the right to be assured, wherever possible, access to variety of goods at competitive prices; (d) the right to be heard and to be assured that consumers’ interests will receive due consideration at appropriate forums; (e) the right to seek redressal against unfair trade practice or unscrupulous exploitation of consumers; and (f) right to consumer education.”” 9. The scope and object of the said legislation had also come up for consideration before this Court in Common Cause, A Registered Society vs. Union of India and Others3 in which it was observed: - “2.