It is not necessary to repeat here what has been stated in the under re- view while dealing with the same contentions raised there. We cannot however, help observing that the failure to realize the distinction between the judicial service and the other services is at the bottom of the hostility displayed by the review petitioners to the directions given in the . The judicial service is not ser- vice in the sense of ‘employment’. The Judges are not employees. As members of the judiciary, they exercise the sovereign judicial power of the State. They [2024] 1 S.C.R. 341 All India Judges Association v. Union of India & Ors not comparable with the administrative executive. They discharge sovereign state functions and just like the Council of Ministers or the political executive and their service is different from the secretarial staff or the administrative executive which carries out the decisions of the political executive, judges are distinct from judicial staff, and are thus comparable with the political executive and legislature. It would be wholly inappropriate to equate judicial service with the service of other officers of the State. The functions, duties, restrictions and restraints operating during and after service are entirely distinct for members of the judicial service. Consequently, the plea of equivalence has been consistently rejected in the s of this Court. We affirmatively do so again. Allowances recommended by the SNJPC 19. We will now deal with each of the allowances as recommended by the SNJPC. 1. House Building Advance (HBA) 20. At the outset, it needs to be noted that the HBA forms a subject matter of the recommendations of the Seventh CPC, FNJPC, JPC and now the SNJPC. The SNJPC has recommended that : (i) HBA shall be made available to judicial officers in terms of the House Building Advance Rules, 2017; and (ii) HBA shall be available to judicial officers also for the purchase of a ready built house from private individuals subject to such are holders of public offices in the same way as the members of the council of ministers and the members of the legislature. When it is said that in a democracy such as ours, the executive, the legislature and the judiciary constitute the three pillars of the State, what is intended to be conveyed is that the three essential functions of the State are entrusted to the three organs of the State and each one of them in turn represents the authority of the State. However, those who exercise the State power are the Ministers, the Legislators and the Judges, and not the members of their staff who implement or assist in implementing their decisions. The council of ministers or the political executive is different from the secretarial staff or the administrative executive which carries out the decisions of the political executive. Similarly, the Legislators are different from the legislative staff. So also the Judges from the judicial staff. The parity is between the political executive, the Legislators and the Judges and not between the Judges and the administrative executive.