2281 Central Organisation for Railway Electrification v. M/s ECI SPIC SMO MCML (JV) A Joint Venture Company one of the two International Conventions relating to foreign arbitral awards to which India is a party applies, will be treated as a foreign award.” [emphasis supplied] 7. Article 5 of the UNCITRAL Model Law(for short ‘Model law’) and Section 5 of the Arbitration Act is extracted below: “Article 5. Extent of Court intervention- In matters governed by this Law, no court shall intervene except where so provided in this Law.” “Section 5. Extent of judicial intervention.—Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, in matters governed by this Part, no judicial authority shall intervene except where so provided in this Part.” 8. The Statement of Objects and Reasons of the Arbitration Act read along with Section 5 of the Act makes it clear that the legislative intent behind the Arbitration Act was to, inter alia, minimise the intervention of the Courts and provide for timely resolution of disputes. It is also crucial to note that the Parliament in Section 5, made a significant departure from Article 5 of Model law by adding a non-obstante clause, ‘Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law’, emphasizing that the Courts should exercise restraint and other laws should not be made the basis for court’s intervention with the agreed arbitral process. 9. Section 11 deals with ‘Appointment of Arbitrator’. Section 11(2) provides that subject to Section 11(6), parties are ‘free to agree on a procedure for appointing the arbitrator or arbitrators’. At this stage, the language in Section 11(6) of the Arbitration Act needs to be noticed which reads thus: “(6) Where, under an appointment procedure agreed upon by the parties,— (a) a party fails to act as required under that procedure; or (b) the parties, or the two appointed arbitrators, fail to reach an agreement expected of them under that procedure; or (c) a person, including an institution, fails to perform any function entrusted to him or it under that procedure” 2282 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 10. The consideration to be given to the agreed procedure is also clear from Section 11(8) of the Arbitration Act: [11(8) The Supreme Court or, as the case may be, the High Court or the person or institution designated by such Court, before appointing an arbitrator, shall seek a disclosure in writing from the prospective arbitrator in terms of sub-section (1) of section 12, and have due regard to— (a) any qualifications required for the arbitrator by the agreement of the parties; and (b) the contents of the disclosure and other considerations as are likely to secure the appointment of an independent and impartial arbitrator.] [emphasis supplied] 11. In ad-hoc arbitration, the parties have the option to choose the arbitrator as per the procedure agreed between parties. It is only when ‘a party fails to act as required under that procedure’ as contemplated in Section 11(6) of the Act that the court’s intervention is expected.