226 is passed after the service of a copy of the writ petition on all concerned parties and after giving them an opportunity of being heard – It applies only to ex-parte ad interim 950 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports s. [Para 26] Per Pankaj Mithal, J. (concurring) It is noticeable that u/Art. 226(3) of the Constitution of India, the automatic vacation of the stay envisages making of an application to the High Court for the vacation of the interim stay – Therefore, filing of an application for vacating the stay is a sine qua non for triggering the automatic vacation of the stay u/Art. 226(3) if such an application is not decided within the time prescribed of two weeks. [Para 6] Directions by Supreme Court – Effect of directions issued by the Constitutional Courts to decide pending cases in a time- bound manner – The three Judges Bench of the Supreme Court issued various directions in Asian Resurfacing – The net effect of the directions issued in paragraphs 36 and 37 of Asian Resurfacing is that the petition in which the High Court has granted a stay of the proceedings of the trial, must be decided within a maximum period of six months – If it is not decided within six months, the interim stay will be vacated automatically, virtually making the pending case infructuous: Held: (Per Abhay S. Oka, J. for himself and Dr. Dhananjaya Y. Chandrachud, CJI., J.B. Pardiwala, Manoj Misra, JJ.) The Constitution Benches of the Supreme Court have considered the issue of fixing timelines for the disposal of cases in the cases of Abdul Rehman Antulay and P. Ramachandra Rao – The principles laid down in the decision will apply even to civil cases before the trial courts – The same principles will also apply to a direction issued to the High Courts to decide cases on a day-to-day basis or within a specific time – Thus, the directions of the Court that provide for automatic vacation of the of stay and the disposal of all cases in which a stay has been granted on a day-to-day basis virtually amount to judicial legislation – The jurisdiction of this Court cannot be exercised to make such a judicial legislation – Only the legislature can provide that cases of a particular category should be decided within a specific time – There are many statutes which incorporate such provisions – However, all such provisions are usually held to be directory – A judicial notice will have to be taken of the fact that in all the High Courts of larger strength having jurisdiction over larger States, the daily cause lists of individual Benches of the cases of the aforesaid categories are of more than a hundred matters – Therefore, once a case is entertained by the High Court and the stay is granted, the case has a long life – The High Courts cannot be expected to [2024] 2 S.C.R. 951 High Court Bar Association, Allahabad v. State of U.P.