It was contended by the learned Senior counsel that the proceeding under the N.I. Act being more or less summary in nature, the Court has rightfully discharged its duty of being strict in scrutiny of evidence so as not to disadvantage the accused leading to miscarriage of justice. He submitted that the present appeal does not merit any consideration and sought its dismissal. ANALYSIS, REASONING AND CONCLUSION: 14. Having considered the rival contentions, we find that the impugned upholding the of the Appellate Court requires interference. 15. This Court in Dashrath Rupsingh Rathod v State of Maharashtra, (2014) 9 SCC 129 held that “An offence under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881 is committed no sooner a cheque drawn by the accused on an account being maintained by him in a bank for discharge of debt/liability is returned unpaid for insufficiency of funds or for the reason that the amount exceeds the arrangement made with the bank.” The fact that the cheque was issued as a consequence of failure to repay the loan taken by the respondent from the appellant to which the interest was added would more or less settle the issue. However, in the present case, a discrepancy apropos the rate of interest, whether it be 1.8%, 2.4% or 3% per month was not sufficient to disbelieve the claim of the appellant. Though the respondent before the learned Trial Court had contended that there was no loan transaction between the parties, but still, before the Appellate Court, by way of additional evidence, he marked receipts to show the re-payment of loan. Even there, the respondent did not produce all the receipts showing total discharge of the loan amount, as was noted by the Appellate Court, and only the difference in the 330 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports rates of interest as well as the finding that substantial amount has been repaid led to the acquittal of the respondent. 16. On this issue, we would like to indicate that neither in the pronotes nor in the Statement of Accounts, the principal amount has been disputed and the amount arrived at, as reflected in the cheque whether it is in respect of 1.8% interest or 3% interest per month cannot be given undue importance for the reason that the pronotes indicated that under normal circumstances, when there would be repayment by the respondent, the rate would be 1.8% per month but in the event of non-repayment, how much interest by way of an added burden would lie on the respondent has not been specified. Thus, if the rate of interest of 3% instead of 1.8% per month has been added on the principal amount and the amount in the cheques reflects the same, it cannot be said that the cheques were not for repayment of the principal amount, totalling Rs.14,50,000/- (Rupees Fourteen Lakhs and Fifty Thousand). When the respondent does not dispute that he has handed over the cheques or signed on them, it was incumbent upon him, the moment he claims the amount(s) were repaid to the appellant to have either taken back the cheques or instructed the bank concerned to not honour the concerned cheques.