Thereafter, regular appointments came to be made. 23. Since the panel expired after one year under Rule 12 of the Recruitment Rules, 2016, the Board issued a fresh advertisement to fill up 11,765 vacancies. It was argued that the unfilled vacancies should be treated exclusively as a part of the recruitment process initiated through Notification dated 23.12.2020 and the Court may modify the Division Bench direction to the extent that the 3929 vacancies are filled up on the basis of merit determined in consonance with Rule 8 of the Recruitment Rules, 2016. The aforementioned argument can be accepted only if a legal justification is found for the Writ Petitioner’s appointment to the 16,500 posts. 24. To better understand whether such a panel can be utilised for appointment after its expiry and if there exists a legal right to be considered for appointments to the notified 16,500 vacancies, it is relevant to take note of the ratio in the following s: i. State of Orissa & Anr. v. Raj Kishore Nanda & Ors.1: “16. A select list cannot be treated as a reservoir for the purpose of appointments, that vacancy can be filled up taking the names from that list as and when it is so required. 1 [2010] 7 SCR 301 : (2010) 6 SCC 777 at 783. Para 16 [2024] 5 S.C.R. 945 Ali Hossain Mandal & Ors. v. West Bengal Board of Primary Education & Ors. It is the settled legal proposition that no relief can be granted to the candidate if he approaches the court after the expiry of the select list. If the selection process is over, select list has expired and appointments had been made, no relief can be granted by the court at a belated stage.” ii. Union of India v. B. Valluvan2: “17. The life of a panel ordinarily is one year. The same can be extended only by the State and that too if the statutory rule permits it to do so. The High Court ordinarily would not extend the life of a panel. Once a panel stands exhausted upon filling up of all the posts, the question of enforcing a future panel would not arise. It was for the State to accept the said recommendations of the Selection Committee or reject the same. As has been noticed hereinbefore, all notified vacancies as also the vacancy which arose in 2000 had also been filled up. As the future vacancy had already been filled up in the year 2000, the question of referring back to the panel prepared in the year 1999 did not arise. The impugned , therefore, cannot be sustained.” iii. Girdhar Kumar Dadhich v. State of Rajasthan3: “16. Furthermore, the select list would ordinarily remain valid for one year. We fail to understand on what basis appointments were made in 2003 or subsequently. Whether the validity of the said select list was extended or not is not known. Extension of select list must be done in accordance with law. Apart from a bald statement made in the list of dates that the validity of the said select list had been extended, no document in support thereof has been placed before us.” iv.