190/2020 was listed for hearing before the Hon’ble Tribunal by way of video conferencing on 28.10.2020. On that day the Deponent appeared before the Hon’ble Tribunal and was granted a hearing. During the course of the hearing the Deponent raised his submissions inter-alia including the fact that the Ministry of Environment and Forests did not have the power to exempt the removal of ordinary earth from the purview of the EIA Notification and that the exemption as granted for the removal of ordinary earth was illegal and ultra vires the Environment Protection Act as well as the of this Hon’ble Court in Deepak Kumar’s . It is submitted that the aforesaid point was raised, however the Hon’ble Tribunal did not find merit in the said submission as is evident from the dated 28.10.2020.” (emphasis added) Thus, the Advocate-on-Record stated in the affidavit that what was argued before the NGT was the challenge to the exemption granted for the removal of ordinary earth for linear projects. We may note here that item 7 in the substituted Appendix-IX brought on record by the impugned notification was already there as item 6 in Appendix-IX to the second EC notification dated 15th January 2016. The appellant did not challenge the notification dated 15th January 2016. Even if we set aside or strike down item 7 regarding dredging/desilting in the impugned notification, it will continue to exist as item 6 in the second EC notification. The second EC notification is not under challenge. Therefore, we restrict the challenge to item 6 in the substituted Appendix-IX to the impugned notification. 1266 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports CHALLENGE TO ITEM 6 IN THE IMPUGNED NOTIFICATION Failure to follow the procedure prescribed by sub-rule (3) of Rule 5 18. We have already quoted Rule 5 of the EP Rules. There is no dispute that the first EC notification, the second EC notification and the impugned notification were issued in the exercise of powers under sub-rule (1) of Rule 5 of the EP Rules. Sub-rule (2) of Rule 5 provides that while passing an prohibiting or restricting the location of industries and carrying on processes and operations, the Central Government shall follow the procedure laid down in Rule 5. Sub-rule (3) of Rule 5 requires the Central Government to publish a notice of its intention to do so in the official Gazette and in such other manner as the Central Government deems fit. Any person interested is entitled to file objections against the proposed prohibition or restriction. The Central Government is required to consider the objections before issuing the final notification. The said procedure was followed before publishing the first EC notification. 19. Sub-rule (4) of Rule 5 empowers the Central Government to dispense with the requirement of publication of notice under sub-rule (3) of Rule 5 when it appears to the Central Government that it is in the public interest to do so. Thus, sub-rule (4) of Rule 5 is an exception to sub-rule (3). The exception can be invoked only on the grounds of public interest.