[Paras 76, 77, 84] Constitution of India – Arts. 105 and 194 – Parliamentary privileges – Necessity test to claim and exercise a privilege: Held: Members of the House or indeed the House itself cannot claim privileges which are not essentially related to their functioning – Assertion of a privilege by an individual member of Parliament or Legislature would be governed by a twofold test, first, the privilege claimed has to be tethered to the collective functioning of the House, and second, its necessity must bear a functional relationship to the discharge of the essential duties of a legislator – Burden of [2024] 3 S.C.R. 465 Sita Soren v. Union of India satisfying that a privilege exists and that it is necessary for the House to collectively discharge its function lies with the person or body claiming the privilege – Houses of Parliament or Legislatures, and the committees are not islands which act as enclaves shielding those inside from the application of ordinary laws – Lawmakers are subject to the same law that the law-making body enacts for the people it governs and claims to represent. [Paras 87, 90, 91] Constitution of India – Arts. 105 and 194 – Parliamentary privilege – Privileges, if attract immunity to a member of Parliament or of the Legislatures who engages in bribery in connection with their speech or vote: Held: Bribery is not protected by parliamentary privilege – Bribery is not in respect of anything said or any vote given – Bribery is not immune under clause (2) of Art.105 and Art.194 because a member engaging in bribery commits a crime which is unrelated to their ability to vote or to make a decision on their vote – Same principle applies to bribery in connection with a speech in the House or a Committee – Individual member of the legislature cannot assert a claim of privilege to seek immunity u/Arts 105 and 194 from prosecution on a charge of bribery in connection with a vote or speech in the legislature – Such a claim to immunity fails to fulfil the twofold test that the claim is tethered to the collective functioning of the House and that it is necessary to the discharge of the essential duties of a legislator. [Para G, 188.4, 188.7] Constitution of India – Arts. 105 and 194 – Parliamentary privilege – Expression ‘in respect of’ and ‘anything’ in Clause (2) of Art. 105 – Interpretation: Held: Clause (2) of Art. 105 grants immunity “in respect of anything” said or any vote given – Extent of this immunity must be tested on the anvil of the test of intrinsic relation to the functioning of the House and the necessity test – Phrase “in respect of” is significant to delineate the ambit of the immunity granted under Clause (2) of Art. 105 – Words “in respect of” in Clause (2) apply to the phrase “anything said or any vote given,” and in the latter part to a publication by or with the authority of the House – Expressions “anything” and “any” must be read in the context of the accompanying expressions in Arts 105(2) and 194(2) – Words “anything” or “any” may not be interpreted without reading the operative word on which it applies i.e.