The findings of all the courts below were that Choyichi was never in possession of the property and therefore she would not get the right, as claimed by her under Section 14(1) of the Hindu Succession Act, 1956.” (emphasis supplied) 24. Seen in the light of the ratio of the above s, it is clear that for establishing full ownership on the undivided joint family estate under Section 14(1) of the Succession Act the Hindu female must not only be possessed of the property but she must have acquired the property and such acquisition must be either by way of inheritance or devise, or at a partition or “in lieu of maintenance or arrears of maintenance” or by gift or be her own skill or exertion, or by purchase or by prescription. 25. Even on going through the pleadings in the Revenue suit for partition filed by plaintiff Kailash Chand, it is clear that there is not even a whisper in the plaint that Smt. Nandkanwarbai or the plaintiff Kailash Chand himself were ever in possession of the suit property. As a matter of fact, the suit was filed by pleading that the suit property was a joint Hindu family property and defendant-Mukat Lal(appellant herein) had consented to give half share of the suit property to the plaintiff Kailash Chand on his demand. This assertion was denied by defendant-Mukat Lal. 26. In this context, when we consider the effect of the earlier civil suit instituted by Smt. Nadkanwarbai(deceased widow), it becomes clear that she was never in possession of the suit property because the civil suit was filed by her claiming the relief of title as well as possession and the same was dismissed. This finding of the civil Court was never challenged. Since, Smt. Nadkanwarbai was never in possession of the suit property, as a necessary corollary the Revenue suit for partition claiming absolute ownership under Section 14(1) of the Hindu Succession Act could not be maintained by her adopted son, plaintiff Kailash Chand by virtue of inheritance. 27. On close scrutiny of the s rendered by the learned Single Judge and the learned Division Bench of the High Court, we find that there is no consideration in these s that the predecessor of the plaintiff Kailash Chand or the plaintiff himself were ever in 314 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports possession of the suit property or had acquired the same in the manner as indicated in the of M. Sivadasan (supra). 28. As a consequence of the above discussion, the impugned s do not stand to scrutiny and cannot be sustained. 29. Resultantly, the dated 2nd November, 2017 rendered by learned Division Bench and the dated 21st July, 2006 rendered by the learned Single Judge are hereby reversed and set aside. 30. Consequently, the Revenue Suit No. 37 of 1979 filed by the plaintiff is dismissed. 31. The appeal is allowed in these terms. No costs. 32. Decree be prepared accordingly. 33. Pending application(s), if any, shall stands disposed of.