She herself has the exclusive right to enjoy it. Her husband has no right to use it except in distress….’ In N.R. Raghavachariar’s Hindu Law — Principles and Precedents (8th Edn. ), edited by Prof. S. Venkataraman, one of the renowned Professors of Hindu Law, at para 468 deals with ‘Definition of Stridhana’. In para 469 dealing with ‘Sources of acquisition’ it is stated that the sources of acquisition of property in a woman’s possession are: gifts before marriage, wedding gifts, gifts subsequent to marriage, etc. Para 470 deals with ‘Gifts to a maiden’. Para 471 deals with ‘Wedding gifts’ and it is stated therein that properties gifted at the time of marriage to the bride, whether by relations or strangers, either Adhiyagni or Adhyavahanika, are the bride’s stridhana. In para 481 at p. 426, it is stated that ornaments presented to the bride by her husband or father constitute her stridhana property. In para 487 dealing with ‘powers during coverture’ 4 [1996] Supp. 10 SCR 347 : (1997) 2 SCC 397 746 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports it is stated that saudayika meaning the gift of affectionate kindred, includes both Yautaka or gifts received at the time of marriage as well as its negative Ayautaka. In respect of such property, whether given by gift or will she is the absolute owner and can deal with it in any way she likes. She may spend, sell or give it away at her own pleasure. 10. It is thus clear that the properties gifted to her before the marriage, at the time of marriage or at the time of giving farewell or thereafter are her stridhana properties. It is her absolute property with all rights to dispose at her own pleasure. He has no control over her stridhana property. Husband may use it during the time of his distress but nonetheless he has a moral obligation to restore the same or its value to his wife. Therefore, stridhana property does not become a joint property of the wife and the husband and the husband has no title or independent dominion over the property as owner thereof.” (Emphasis supplied) Pratibha Rani (supra) stands followed recently in Maya Gopinathan v. Anoop S.B.5 Noticeably, the position of law has remained consistent throughout since 1985, till date, regarding the sole authority of the woman in respect of her ‘stridhan’ as has also been held recently in Mala Kar v. State of Uttarakhand ,6 wherein a decree of divorce stood passed inter se the parties on 18th October 2014, and FIR was filed on 6th April 2015, the appellant’s request for the respondent to pay a sum of Rs.10 Lakhs in full and final settlement of all claims, including ‘stridhan’ was accepted, and the former husband was directed to pay such amount. 7. As evidenced from the above, the jurisprudence as has been developed by this Court is unequivocal with respect to the singular right of the female (wife or former wife) as the case may be, being the sole owner of ‘stridhan’.