101. However, with utmost respect, we do not find any of those decisions, which have taken an expansive view, looking at such ground in the manner we propose to look, for recording our concurrence with the view in Chhajju Ram (supra) that has unhesitatingly been followed over the years. If indeed “any other sufficient reason” were to take within its embrace any situation not analogous to “discovery of new matter or evidence” and “on account of some mistake or error apparent on the face of the record”, we wonder why the legislature chose to keep “any other sufficient reason” immediately after the aforesaid two grounds. If “any other sufficient reason” were to be read independent of the said two grounds, we believe the long line in Rule 1 after clauses (a) to (c) need not have been drafted in the manner it presently reads. In lieu of referring to the said two grounds as grounds on which a review could be sought, the legislature could well have kept it open- ended as in section 5 of the Limitation Act, 1963 where it is provided, without any strings attached, that any appeal or any application may be admitted after the prescribed period of limitation if the appellant or applicant satisfies the court that he had “sufficient cause” for not preferring the appeal or the application earlier. If the intention of the legislature were to give an expanded meaning, XLVII Rule 1 would have read somewhat like this: any person considering himself aggrieved by a decree or or decision of the nature indicated in clauses (a), (b) and (c) for any sufficient reason desires to obtain a review of the decree or made against him, may apply for a review. But that is not what the provision says and means. Reading XLVII Rule 1 in juxtaposition to section 5 of the Limitation Act drives us to accept the view in Chhajju Ram (supra) as having interpreted the law correctly and acceptance of the same by this Court and high courts over the years, coupled with the fact that the Parliament did not consider it necessary to amend Rule 1 when it inserted the Explanation in 1976. Giving a wider meaning to the ground “any other sufficient reason” in Netaji Cricket Club (supra) and Jagmohan Singh (supra), therefore, 1000 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports must have been intended and necessitated by this Court because the justice of the cases so demanded but the same would have no application in a case of this nature. 102. Having regard to the aforesaid distinction in the exercise of review power and the power that inheres in every court, we are unable to be ad idem with the decision in Netaji Cricket Club (supra) as well as the decision in Jagmohan Singh (supra), which followed the former decision. The said two decisions are by benches of two Hon’ble Judges, with a common author. With the deepest of respect and reverence we have for His Lordship, we find limiting the application of the principles regarding exercise of the power of review, as expounded in Moran Mar Basselios Catholics (supra) (a decision rendered by a Bench of three Hon’ble Judges, which has stood the test of time), to be against established principles flowing from Article 141 of the Constitution by which the Supreme Court is also bound.