They can be dealt with under the powers to maintain law and but cannot be detained on the 1 (1966) 1 SCR 709 : 1965 INSC 175 642 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports ground that they were disturbing public . Suppose that the two fighters were of rival communities and one of them tried to raise communal passions. The problem is still one of law and but it raises the apprehension of public dis. Other examples can be imagined. The contravention of law always affects but before it can be said to affect public , it must affect the community or the public at large. A mere disturbance of law and leading to dis is thus not necessarily sufficient for action under the Defence of India Act but disturbances which subvert the public are.… 55. It will thus appear that just as ‘public ’ in the rulings of this Court (earlier cited) was said to comprehend diss of less gravity than those affecting ‘security of State’, ‘law and ’ also comprehends diss of less gravity than those affecting ‘public ’. One has to imagine three concentric circles. Law and represents the largest circle within which is the next circle representing public and the smallest circle represents security of State. It is then easy to see that an act may affect law and but not public just as an act may affect public but not security of the State.” 13. It could thus be seen that a Constitution Bench of this Court in unequivocal terms held that every breach of peace does not lead to public dis. It has been held that when a person can be dealt with in exercise of powers to maintain the law and , unless the acts of the proposed detainee are the ones which have the tendency of disturbing the public a resort to preventive detention which is a harsh measure would not be permissible. 14. Recently, a Bench of this Court has referred to various s of this Court while following the law laid down by this Court in the case of Ram Manohar Lohia (supra), it will be appropriate to reproduce the following paragraph from the of this Court in the case of Ameena Begum v. State of Telangana and Others.2 “38. For an act to qualify as a disturbance to public , the specific activity must have an impact on the broader 2 [2023] 11 SCR 958 : (2023) 9 SCC 587 [2024] 12 S.C.R. 643 Arjun S/o Ratan Gaikwad v. The State of Maharashtra and Others community or the general public, evoking feelings of fear, panic, or insecurity. Not every case of a general disturbance to public tranquillity affects the public and the question to be asked, as articulated by Hon’ble M. Hidayatullah, C.J. in Arun Ghosh v. State of W.B. [Arun Ghosh v. State of W.B. (1970) 1 SCC 98 : 1970 SCC (Cri) 67], is this : (SCC p. 100, para 3) “3. … Does it [the offending act] lead to disturbance of the current of life of the community so as to amount a disturbance of the public or does it affect merely an individual leaving the tranquillity of the society undisturbed?” 39.