116 of 2020 dated 26th August, 2020 had been registered by PS EOW, Delhi Police (“EOW FIR”) alleging violation of Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) regulations and other laws of the country by the appellant and the company, thereby causing loss to the exchequer. A copy of the said FIR was, however, not provided to the appellant. By treating the EOW FIR as disclosing predicate offences, the Directorate of Enforcement (for short “ED”) registered an Enforcement Case Information Report (for short ‘ECIR’) for the offences punishable under Sections 3 and 4 of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 (for short ‘PMLA’). The ED carried out extensive search and seizure operations at various places including the office of the company-M/s. PPK Newsclick Studio Pvt. Ltd., of which the appellant is the Director. (ii) The company assailed the ECIR by filing Writ Petition (Crl.) Nos. 1129 of 2021 and 1130 of 2021 wherein interim protection against coercive steps was granted by High Court of Delhi on 21st June, 2021. The appellant was also provided interim protection in an application seeking anticipatory bail vide dated 7th July, 2021. (iii) The FIR No. 224 of 2023 has been registered purely on conjectures and surmises without there being any substance in the allegations set out in the report. The contents of the FIR which were provided to the appellant at a much later stage 676 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports discloses a purely fictional story without any fundamental facts or material warranting registration of the FIR. (iv) Admittedly, the copy of FIR No. 224 of 2023 was neither made available in the public domain nor a copy thereof supplied to the appellant until his arrest and remand which is in complete violation of the fundamental Right to Life and Personal Liberty enshrined in Articles 20, 21 and 22 of the Constitution of India. (v) Shri Sibal pointed out that the learned Remand Judge, vide dated 5th October, 2023, allowed the application filed by the appellant seeking certified copy of the said FIR which was provided to the learned counsel for the appellant in the late evening on 5th October, 2023, i.e., well after the appellant had been remanded to police custody. (vi) That the grounds of arrest were not informed to the appellant either orally or in writing and that such action is in gross violation of the constitutional mandate under Article 22(1) of the Constitution of India and Section 50 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (hereinafter being referred to as the ‘CrPC’). (vii) Reliance was placed by the learned senior counsel on the of this Court in Pankaj Bansal v. Union of India and Others1 and it was contended that the mere passing of successive remand s would not be sufficient to validate the initial arrest, if such arrest was not in conformity with law. Learned senior counsel urged that this Court in the case of Pankaj Bansal (supra) interpreted the provision of Section 19(1) of PMLA which is pari materia to the provisions contained in Section 43B(1) of the UAPA.