Whether the activity of the appellants – assessees would attract service tax within the scope and ambit of Section 65(19)(ii) read with Section 65(105)(zzb) of the Finance Act, 1994? If not, what relief(s) the appellants are entitled to? 2. What ? 6. In to better understand the controversy in these cases, it would be relevant to advert to the provisions of the Constitution as well as the provisions of the Finance Act, 1994 (which imposes service tax, pertinently on business auxiliary service). 6.1 Article 246 of the Constitution pertains to the division of subjects between the Central (Parliament) and State Legislatures in the form of three lists in the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution, namely List 1 – Union List, List 2 – State List and List 3 – Concurrent List. It would be useful to extract Article 246 of the Constitution as under: “246. Subject-matter of laws made by Parliament and by the Legislatures of States. (1) Notwithstanding anything in clauses (2) and (3), Parliament has exclusive power to make laws with respect to any of the matters enumerated in List I in the Seventh Schedule (in this Constitution referred to as the “Union List”). (2) Notwithstanding anything in clause (3), Parliament, and, subject to clause (1), the Legislature of any State also, have power to [2024] 8 S.C.R. 837 K. Arumugam v. Union of India & Others Etc. make laws with respect to any of the matters enumerated in List III in the Seventh Schedule (in this Constitution referred to as the “Concurrent List”). (3) Subject to clauses (1) and (2), the Legislature of any State has exclusive power to make laws for such State or any part thereof with respect to any of the matters enumerated in List II in the Seventh Schedule (in this Constitution referred to as the “State List”). (4) Parliament has power to make laws with respect to any matter for any part of the territory of India not included in a State notwithstanding that such matter is a matter enumerated in the State List.” 6.2 Article 248 deals with Residuary power of Legislatures and the same reads as under: “248. Residuary powers of legislation. (1) Subject to Article 246A, Parliament has exclusive power to make any law with respect to any matter not enumerated in the Concurrent List or State List. (2) Such power shall include the power of making any law imposing a tax not mentioned in either of those Lists.” At this stage itself, it may be mentioned that the residuary power is reserved to the Parliament to legislate on any subject provided such power is not included in either the Concurrent List or the State List. 6.3 The Finance Act, 1994 was legislated by the Parliament in terms of Article 248 of the Constitution of India read with Entry 97 List 1 which reads as under: “97. Any other matter not enumerated in List II or List III including any tax not mentioned in either of those Lists.” It is also pertinent to mention that Entry 92-C of List I which deals with taxes on services was inserted by the Constitution (Eighty-eighth 838 [2024] 8 S.C.R.