11.12 The alternative plea taken by the Assessee is that these items, viz., mobile tower and the prefabricated buildings (PFBs) are “inputs’ used for providing output service of telecommunication and hence, being “inputs” under Rule 2(k) which are used for providing output service i.e., mobile service, CENVAT credit will be available in terms of Rule 3(1) which provides that a provider of a taxable service shall be allowed to take credit on duties paid on any input received in the premises of that provider of output service on or after 10th September, 2004 and this may be utilised for payment of service tax on any output service under Rule 3(1) read with Rule 3(4) of the CENVAT Rules. 11.12.1 “Input” has been defined under Rule 2(k) to mean all goods used for providing any output service. We have already held that tower and the prefabricated buildings (PFBs) are not immovable property but are “goods”/ “capital goods” within the meaning of Rule 2(a)(A)(iii) and since these are used for providing output service, i.e. mobile service, these can be 1596 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports considered to be “inputs” within the meaning of Rule 2(k) and CENVAT credit can be availed in respect of these goods for payment of service tax. The aforesaid definition clause under Rule 2(k) neither puts any condition on it nor any qualifying words have been added to the word “input”, except to mean goods used for providing any output service. Hence, it would mean any “good” which is used as “input” for providing taxable output service. Thus, any item so long it qualifies as a “good” and is “used” for providing output service, would come within the purview of “input” under Rule 2(k) and excise duty paid on such items can be claimed as CENVAT credit which may in turn be used for payment of service tax for the output service provided by the MSPs. 11.12.2 It may be also noted that there must be “use” of such goods to qualify as “inputs”. Without stretching too much the meaning of the words “use” and “input”, it can be said, without any doubt, that tower and PFBs are used for providing output service by way of inputs. The use of tower and PFB cannot be said to be so remotely connected with the output of service that these goods will go beyond the ordinary meaning of “use”. Their usage in providing the output service is not remote but proximate. In fact, without the use of tower and PFB, it is inconceivable that the service provider can provide mobile services effectively. Rather, towers and PFBs are indispensable being accessories of antenna for providing mobile services. In this regard one may refer to the decision in Member, Board of Revenue, West Bengal Vs. M/s. Phelps & Co. (P) Ltd. (1972) 4 SCC 121 wherein it was held that, “6. We have now to find out what exactly is the meaning of the expression “for use by him in the manufacture of goods for sale”.