However, the High Court held the evidence of PW-17 as unreliable. The High Court found that though PW-17 was declared hostile prior to such declaration he deposed that the accused Ramjan/the first respondent herein had thrown the deceased on a stone boulder. He had not deposed anything against the other accused / the other respondents herein. The High Court found his testimony unreliable as according to him the first respondent Ramjan threw the deceased 9 [1993] 2 SCR 389 : (1993) 3 SCC 282 10 AIR 1982 SC 1022 [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1887 The State of Madhya Pradesh v. Ramjan Khan & Ors. on a stone boulder which caused head injuries, but that is not the case of the prosecution at all and that apart he had stated so, for the first time only in the Court. In that regard he was confronted with his previous statement - Ext.P22. Besides the same, there is nothing in the opinion of PW-1, the Doctor who conducted autopsy on the body of Naseem Khan, which would indicate that the head injury was caused on account of the deceased being thrown on the stone boulder. When that be the nature of evidence of PW-17, it can only be held that the finding of the trial Court that the evidence of PW-17 would not fetch any benefit for the accused cannot be sustained. Hence, according to us, the High Court held his evidence unreliable correctly. 28. In the aforesaid circumstances the question is with respect to the reliability on the oral testimonies of PW-5 and PW-9 who are the younger brothers of deceased Naseem Khan. As noticed hereinbefore, their oral testimonies were held as reliable by the trial Court and at the same time the High Court found their testimonies as unreliable. At the outset, it is to be noted that as in the case of PW-8, the defence had succeeded in bringing out the fact that both PW-5 and PW-9 had omitted to mention certain material facts to police while their statements were recorded. The question is whether they were omissions tantamounting to discredit the said witnesses. PW-5, while being examined in chief, deposed to have seen Ramjan causing injury by parena (sickle), Musaf Khan causing injury by stick and Habib causing injury by axe on his brother Naseem Khan. However, during cross-examination he would depose that regarding the infliction of injuries by the respondents using the aforementioned weapons on Naseem Khan, he did not make any statement before the police and stated so for the first time before the Court. PW-2, Isab Khan, and PW-17, Anees Khan, are respectively the sons of Yaseem Khan and Mohar Khan, who are the cousin brothers of Munne Khan, the father of PWs 5 and 9. As noticed hereinbefore, both PW-2 and PW-17 did not support the case of the prosecution. High Court also took note of the fact that PW-5 did not depose that when he along with his mother (PW-8) reached the place of occurrence the deceased was alive and gave oral dying declaration to PW-8.