It is this of the AFT which was assailed by the respondent before the High Court. The High Court allowed the writ petition preferred by the respondent solely on the ground that an officer junior to the respondent has acted as Judge Advocate in the GCM contrary to the law laid down by this Court in Union of India & Anr. vs. Charanjit Singh Gill.4 5. Assailing the impugned of the High Court, Shri R. Bala, learned Senior Advocate for the appellant/Union of India has argued that there is no blanket prohibition on appointing an officer of lower rank than the charged officer to serve as Judge Advocate in a Court Martial. He would strenuously urge that in Charanjit Singh Gill (supra), this court has carved out an exception to the effect that “a Judge Advocate appointed with the Court Martial should not be an officer of a rank lower than that of the officer facing the trial unless the officer of such rank is not (having due regard to the exigencies of public service) available and the opinion regarding non-availability is specifically recorded in the convening ”. According to learned senior counsel, the present case falls within the above exception inasmuch as non-availability of an officer of equivalent or higher rank was specifically recorded in the convening . It is also argued, referring to Army Rule 103 that a Court Martial shall not be invalid merely by reason of any invalidity in the appointment of the Judge Advocate officiating thereat. Reference is made to Union of India vs. S.P.S. Rajkumar and Ors.5 4 [2000] 3 SCR 245 : 2000 (5) SCC 742 5 [2007] 5 SCR 521 : 2007 (6) SCC 407 190 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 6. Per contra, Shri G.S. Ghuman, learned counsel appearing for the respondent would submit that one Major Rajiv Dutta was appointed as a Judge Advocate in the Court Martial, who was junior in rank to the respondent. This was informed to the respondent by forwarding certified copy of the convening under the Army Rules 33 (7) and 34 and the same was also received by the respondent on 07.10.2014. Both the copies were filed with the written statement. In these s, the prerequisites of bringing the appointment of an officer equivalent or junior to the rank of the respondent was not mentioned, therefore, the High Court has taken the correct view in the matter by referring to Charanjit Singh Gill (supra). 7. In the present appeal, we are only concerned with the legality of the appointment of Judge Advocate who was admittedly junior to the respondent, therefore, we are not dwelling on the facts of the case or merits of the charges. 8. Before the High Court, two different convening s were produced. One by the appellant and the other one by the respondent. While the documents submitted by the appellant contained the reasons for appointing a junior as the Judge Advocate whereas in the convening submitted by the respondent no such reason was mentioned.