85. Before we close this matter, we are persuaded to look into a few mitigating circumstances emerging from the record of the case. We take notice of the fact that the appellant got married to the deceased in 1982. During those days, triple talaq was prevalent among the Muslims. In the year 1992, the appellant divorced the deceased with the aid of triple talaq. However, thereafter, he once again brought her back home. In the year 1995, the incident occurred. The appellant [2024] 6 S.C.R. 213 Anees v. The State Govt. of NCT came to be convicted by the trial court in the year 1998. On appeal before the High Court, in the year 1998 itself, the substantive of sentence of life imprisonment came to be suspended and the appellant was ed to be released on bail. It took 16 years for the High Court to decide the appeal which ultimately came to be dismissed on 23.05.2014. Upon dismissal of the appeal, the appellant was once again taken into custody and since then he has been undergoing the sentence of life imprisonment. We are informed that he has undergone almost 11 years of imprisonment so far. It appears that as on date the appellant must be about 65 years of age. Almost half of his life lived so far has been spent undergoing the ordeal of the criminal prosecution. When a crime is committed, a variety of factors are responsible for making the offender commit the crime. Those factors may be social and economic, may be the result of value erosion or parental neglect; may be because of the stress of circumstances, or the manifestation of temptations in a milieu of affluence contrasted with indigence or other privations. 86. In the facts of this case, more particularly keeping in mind the mitigating circumstances as stated above, we grant liberty to the appellant to prefer an appropriate representation addressed to the State Government praying for remission of sentence. If any such representation is filed by the appellant, the State Government shall look into the same at the earliest and take an appropriate decision on the same in accordance with law within four weeks from the date of the receipt of such representation and communicate the same in writing to the appellant. 87. In the result, this appeal fails and is hereby dismissed in the aforesaid terms. 88. Pending application(s), if any, also stand disposed of. Headnotes prepared by: Divya Pandey Result of the case: Appeal dismissed.