[2024] 6 S.C.R. 315 : 2024 INSC 385 Sukhpal Singh v. NCT of Delhi (Criminal Appeal No. 55 of 2015) 07 May 2024 [B.R. Gavai and Sandeep Mehta,* JJ.] Issue for Consideration Appellant was convicted u/s.302, Penal Code, 1860 for the murder of his wife. Courts below whether justified in holding that the statement of Complainant-PW-1 recorded in proceedings u/s.299, Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 could be read as a piece of substantive evidence; whether the prosecution could establish the links in the chain of incriminating circumstantial evidence. Headnotes Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 – s.299 – Record of evidence in absence of accused – Evidence Act, 1872 – s.33 – Appellant murdered his wife owing to her suspected infidelity however, fled away from the crime scene and remained absconding for nearly 10 years – Charge sheet was filed u/s.299 showing him to be an absconder – Complainant (PW-1) was examined on oath in proceedings u/s.299 where he gave detailed account of the sequence of events witnessed by him – However, he could not be produced for deposition in the trial which resumed after the arrest of the appellant, as he could not be found at the address given in the FIR despite all sincere efforts – Statement of PW-1 recorded during proceedings u/s.299 was relied upon as a piece of incriminating evidence against the appellant, apart from other incriminating circumstantial evidences and appellant was convicted u/s.302 – Conviction and sentence affirmed by High Court – Sustainability: Held: s.299 (1) is in two parts, the first part provides for proof of jurisdictional fact in respect of abscondence of an accused person and the second that there was no immediate prospect of arresting him – In the event, an under the said provision is passed, deposition of any witness taken in the absence of an accused may be used against him if the deponent is dead or incapable of giving evidence or cannot be found or his presence * Author 316 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports cannot be procured without any amount of delay, expense or inconvenience which, under the circumstances of the case, would be unreasonable – In the present case, circumstances of motive, last seen, confession and abscondence from the crime scene after committing the crime etc. were all spoken by the witness (PW-1) in his statement recorded on sworn affirmation during the proceedings u/s.299 – His statement by itself provides a complete chain of circumstantial evidence sufficient to establish the guilt of the appellant – Thus, in light of the provisions of s.299 r/w s.33 of the Evidence Act, 1872, the trial Court and High Court were justified in holding that the statement of PW-1 recorded in these proceedings was fit to be read as a piece of substantive evidence – Prosecution established a clinching and complete chain of incriminating circumstantial evidence pointing exclusively towards the guilt of the appellant and totally inconsistent with his innocence or the involvement of any other person in the crime – Impugned s not interfered with.