While testing the appellant’s submissions, we shall refer to these Rules as well. 14. Mr. Ramachandran, learned Amicus Curiae has argued that the making of averment to the effect that the review petition was dismissed by circulation should not by itself guide the question of maintainability of a curative petition. His submission is that in terms of LV Rule 2 of the 2013 Rules, this Court has been vested with power to excuse from compliance with the requirements with any of the rules and if an application to that effect is made, the Registry should take instructions from the Judge in chamber in that regard and communicate the same to the parties. The said Rule further provides that if in the opinion of the Registrar, it is desirable that the application should be dealt with in open Court, she may direct the applicant to serve the other parties with a notice of motion returnable before the Court. Mr. Ramachandran has also cited an passed on 08.02.2016 in the case of Rama Rao Poal -vs- Samaj Parivartana Samudaya [Curative Petition (Civil) D. No.35404/2015], in which this Court had initially directed that the question of maintainability ought to be decided by the concerned Bench. In the said , a Coordinate Bench of this Court observed:- [2024] 2 S.C.R. 771 M/S Brahmaputra Concrete Pipe Industries Etc. Etc. v. The Assam State Electricity Board and Others “Two issues arise in the appeal. The first is whether a curative petition would be maintainable against an passed in a review petition which has been heard in open Court. The second is whether the pre-conditions laid down in “Rupa Ashok Hurra vs. Ashok Hurra & Anr. “, (2002) 4 SCC 389, are satisfied. The Registrar has decided both the issues against the applicant/petitioner holding the curative petition to be not maintainable. Upon hearing the learned counsel for the applicant/ petitioner and after perusing the relevant provisions of the Supreme Court Rules, 2013, we are of the view that the aforesaid questions are to be decided by the Bench. The Registry is therefore directed to circulate the curative petition in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Supreme Court Rules. Appeal against the Registrar is disposed of in the above terms.” 15. That proceeding had also reached the Coordinate Bench in appeal from an of a Registrar. Subsequently, however, a Bench of this Court comprising of four Hon’ble Judges dismissed the curative petition on 29.03.2016. 16. Moreover, in the of this Court in the case of Mohd. Arif -vs- Registrar, Supreme Court of India [(2014) 9 SCC 737] it has been observed that where death sentence is awarded, a right of limited oral hearing shall be given to the convict at the stage of review petition. Subsequently, in the case of Union of India & Ors. -vs- M/s. Union Carbide Corporation & Ors. [Curative Petition (Civil) Nos.345-347 of 2010], a five Judge Bench of this Court by an passed on 14.03.2023, upon hearing the parities in exercise of its curative jurisdiction chose to dismiss the same.