However, it is his contention that the observations in paragraph number 33 of this suggest an interpretation that a divorced Muslim woman is also entitled to all the rights of maintenance as are available to other equally situated women in the country and an interpretation otherwise would only infringe upon the fundamental rights conferred through Articles 14, 15, and 21 of the Constitution of India 1950 (hereinafter referred to as “Constitution of India”). 9. Mr Agrawal also brought to our attention numerous oppugnant decisions of the High Courts, thus bringing out the conflict between the provisions while interpreting the provisions of the 1986 Act vis- à-vis CrPC 1973, as aforementioned. A reference to these decisions would be made as part of the analysis hereinafter. 10. We have heard the learned Senior Advocate for the Appellant, as well as the learned amicus curiae at length and in the light of their submissions, it is requisite to consider the historical perspective, the grey areas leading to a clarified position of law by this Court regarding the secular provision of maintenance under Section 125 [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1253 Mohd. Abdul Samad v. The State of Telangana & Anr. of CrPC 1973, as well as the rights guaranteed under personal law to a divorced Muslim woman through Section 3 of the 1986 Act. 11. The legislature through Section 488 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898, and subsequently by introducing Section 125 CrPC 1973, sought to carry on the efficacious remedy through a summary procedure in favour of a wife, including a divorced woman, and others as applicable. To better comprehend the instant provision, the same is reproduced hereinbelow: “125. for maintenance of wives, children and parents.— (1) If any person having sufficient means neglects or refuses to maintain— (a) his wife, unable to maintain herself, or (b) his legitimate or illegitimate minor child, whether married or not, unable to maintain itself, or (c) his legitimate or illegitimate child (not being a married daughter) who has attained majority, where such child is, by reason of any physical or mental abnormality or injury unable to maintain itself, or (d) his father or mother, unable to maintain himself or herself, a Magistrate of the first class may, upon proof of such neglect or refusal, such person to make a monthly allowance for the maintenance of his wife or such child, father or mother, at such monthly rate as such Magistrate thinks fit and to pay the same to such person as the Magistrate may from time to time direct: Provided that the Magistrate may the father of a minor female child referred to in clause (b) to make such allowance, until she attains her majority, if the Magistrate is satisfied that the husband of such minor female child, if married, is not possessed of sufficient means Provided further that the Magistrate may, during the pendency of the proceeding regarding monthly allowance for the maintenance under this sub-section, such 1254 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports person to make a monthly allowance for the interim maintenance of his wife or such child, father or mother, and the expenses of such proceeding which the Magistrate considers reasonable, and to pay the same to such person as the Magistrate may from time to time direct Provided also that an application for the monthly allowance for the interim maintenance and expenses of proceeding under the second proviso shall, as far as possible, be disposed of within sixty days from the date of the service of notice of the application to such person.