Therefore, this Court or a High Court, as the case may be, while exercising jurisdiction under Section 11(6) of the Act, is not expected to act mechanically merely to deliver a purported dispute raised by an applicant at the doors of the chosen arbitrator, as explained in DLF Home Developers Ltd. v. Rajapura Homes (P) Ltd. [DLF Home Developers Ltd. v. Rajapura Homes (P) Ltd. (2021) 16 SCC 743, paras 22, 26 : 2021 SCC OnLine SC 781, paras 18, 20]” 92. The position that emerges from the aforesaid discussion of law on the subject as undertaken by us can be summarised as follows: - i. There were two conflicting views which occupied the field under the Arbitration Act, 1940. While the decisions in Damodar Valley (supra) and Amar Nath (supra) took the view that the disputes pertaining to “accord and satisfaction” should be left to the arbitrator to decide, the view taken in P.K. Ramaiah (supra) and Nathani Steels (supra) was that once a “full and [2024] 7 S.C.R. 895 SBI General Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Krish Spinning final settlement” is entered into between the parties, no arbitrable disputes subsist and therefore reference to arbitration must not be allowed. ii. Under the Act, 1996, the power under Section 11 was characterised as an administrative one as acknowledged in the decision in Konkan Railway (supra) and this continued till the decision of a seven-Judge Bench in SBP & Co. (supra) overruled it and significantly expanded the scope of judicial interference under Sections 8 and 11 respectively of the Act, 1996. The decision in Jayesh Engineering (supra) adopted this approach in the context of “accord and satisfaction” cases and held that the issue whether the contract had been fully worked out and whether payments had been made in full and final settlement of the claims are issues which should be left for the arbitrator to adjudicate upon. iii. The decision in SBP & Co. (supra) was applied in Boghara Polyfab (supra) and it was held by this Court that the Chief Justice or his designate, in exercise of the powers available to them under Section 11 of the Act, 1996, can either look into the question of “accord and satisfaction” or leave it for the decision of the arbitrator. However, it also specified that in cases where the Chief Justice was satisfied that there was indeed “accord and satisfaction”, he could reject the application for appointment of arbitrator. The prima facie standard of scrutiny was also expounded, stating that the party seeking arbitration would have to prima facie establish that there was fraud or coercion involved in the signing of the discharge certificate. The position elaborated in Boghara Polyfab (supra) was adopted in a number of subsequent decisions, wherein it was held that a mere bald plea of fraud or coercion was not sufficient for a party to seek reference to arbitration and prima facie evidence for the same was required to be provided, even at the stage of the Section 11 petition.