Reliance was placed on a decision of the Madras High Court in the case of M/s.Varnica Herbs v. Central Board of Excise & Customs, New Delhi 1. Therefore, the respondent-assessee was called upon to pay duty on the poly pack sold by the assessee in the manner provided under Section 4A of the Excise Act. Apart from the differential duty, a demand was made for interest and penalty. 2. The respondent replied to the show cause notice by contending that 100 poly packs, each containing 33 small pouches of 6 gms each, and one pouch of 15 gms are being put into one HDPE bag (High-Density Polyethylene Bag). The quantity of 15 gms is kept in a zipper pouch, on which duty is paid under Section 4A of the Excise Act on MRP. A factual contention was raised in the reply by the respondent-assessee that it is not selling poly packs of 33 small pouches directly to the customers. It is stated that the assessee is clearing only HDPE bags containing 100 poly packs, and HDPE bags are being sold to distributors or dealers. Therefore, the assessee did not make a retail sale. It is contended by the respondent that poly packs containing 33 pouches of 6 gms quantity are not group packages within the meaning of Rule 2(g) of the said Rules, and the said poly packs and HDPE bags are wholesale packages as defined in Rule 2(x) of the said Rules. Therefore, the contention is that Section 4A will have no application. 3. After hearing the respondent, the -in-original was passed by the Commissioner. By the said dated 19th July 2005, the contentions raised by the respondent-assessee were rejected, and the demand made in the show cause notices was confirmed. The Commissioner referred to the declarations made on poly pack and held that it was in terms of Rule 16 of the said Rules, and Rule 16 is a part of Chapter II of the said Rules, which deals with retail sales. It was held that a declaration on the poly packs confirms the requirement of Rule 6 and Rule 16 of Chapter II of the said Rules, and therefore, poly packs were intended for retail sale. The further records that the sale price was mentioned on the poly pack, 1 2004 (163) ELT 160 (Madras) [2024] 7 S.C.R. 121 Commissioner of Central Excise, Jaipur -II v. M/s Miraj Products Pvt. Ltd. which was not the requirement of Rule 29 of the said Rules, which deals with declarations on the wholesale packages. However, the Commissioner held that the assessee’s HDPE bags, which contain 100 larger poly pack packages and do not declare the sale price, would be wholesale packages. The Commissioner rejected the respondent’s contention that the poly packs were not sold in retail by holding that whether the manufacturer sold them in retail or not is relevant and what is material is whether the goods were intended for retail sale. 4. By the impugned , the Tribunal held that the decision of the Madras High Court in the case of Varnica Herbs1 was not a binding precedent.