If the definition clause was worded differently, one might possibly argue that a distinction could be made between Transport Vehicles and LMVs. But the use of the word 604 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports ‘means’, points towards the categorical intent of the legislature. When a Court is faced with two interpretations, one of which would have the effect of rendering a provision a ‘dead letter’, the interpretation that allows for such violence to the key words in the statute must be avoided. An attempt at harmonization would therefore be in . Let us analyse the issue further by considering the following overlapping diagram: 70. The above illustration indicates that all Transport Vehicles are not Light Motor Vehicles but some may fall within the class of LMVs which is represented by the overlapping section. The inference therefore is that if the transport vehicle falls under the definition of Light Motor Vehicle in Section 2(21), the additional requirements as outlined in the provisions noticed above, need not be satisfied by a person holding a driving licence for a ‘Light Motor Vehicle’ class. Consequently, a separate endorsement of a Transport Vehicle is not necessary as the LMV license would suffice for vehicles below 7500 kg weight. Such an interpretation would harmonize the statutory provisions by requiring the additional factors only for those Transport vehicles whose gross weight exceeds 7500 kg. 71. It was additionally argued that the principle of generalia specialibus non derogant would apply in this case. Section 2(21) is a general provision defining a Light Motor Vehicle which includes a ‘Transport Vehicle,’ whereas Section 3 is a specific provision that prohibits driving a ‘transport vehicle’ without a separate license endorsement. According to Mr. Jayant Bhushan, Section 3 should take precedence, requiring a separate endorsement under the ‘Transport Vehicle’ class. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 605 M/s Bajaj Alliance General Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Rambha Devi & Ors. 72. To address the argument, let us consider the following passage by Lord Herschell LC in Institute of Patent Agents & Ors. v. Joseph Lockwood33 : “Well, there is a conflict sometimes between two sections to be found in the same Act. You have to try and reconcile them as best you may. If you cannot, you have to determine which is the leading provision and which the subordinate provision, and which must give way to the other.” 73. The important thing to note is that one provision must give way to the other only when reconciliation is not possible. However, when it is possible to harmonize the two, the Court need not determine which is the leading provision. As regards the argument of rendering second part of Section 3(1) otiose, let us again notice Section 3: “3. Necessity for driving licence.—(1) No person shall drive a motor vehicle in any public place unless he holds an effective driving licence issued to him authorising him to drive the vehicle; and no person shall so drive a transport vehicle (other than a motor cab or motorcycle hired for his own use or rented under any scheme made under sub-section (2) of Section 75) unless his driving licence specifically entitles him so to do.” [emphasis supplied] 74.