I am of the view that the intention of the parties while signing the Accord should be kept in mind while construing the object of Section 6A of the Citizenship Act. D. whether the onuS of Detection of foreignerS of the 1966- 71 Stream lieS on the State? 121. From a perusal of Section 6A and the associated rules, it is clear that there is no provision which prescribes or provides for self-declaration/ registration or voluntary detection as a foreigner within a given time period for availing the benefit of citizenship by registration under Section 6A(3). 122. The mechanism of implementation of Section 6A is set into motion with the first step of reference of a suspected foreigner to the foreigners tribunal. As soon as a reference is made to the tribunal, the onus is on the suspected person to either establish that he or she is an Indian citizen, or to establish that he or she is an immigrant eligible to avail the benefit available under Section 6A. Once the tribunal holds that the suspected person is a foreigner of the 1966-71 stream of immigrants, then again, the onus is on the said person to get 1194 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports registered in accordance with the Citizenship Rules, 2009 failing which his or her claim to citizenship would abate. 123. While the statute is clear that the onus completely shifts on the suspected foreigner once a reference is made to the tribunal, it appears to me as illogically unique that a person wanting to avail the benefit of citizenship by registration under Section 6A(3) has to await identification as a suspicious immigrant and subsequent reference to the tribunal. There is no plausible reason why it should be impermissible for him or her to set the mechanism of Section 6A into motion by voluntarily choosing to get detected as a foreigner of the class specified in Section 6A, or to make an application for conferment of citizenship. 124. Further, what stands out as palpably irrational in the scheme of Section 6A of the Citizenship Act is that there is no end date after which the benefit of citizenship under Section 6A(3) cannot be availed. I have dealt in later parts of this as to how this militates against the very purpose of the enactment of Section 6A(3). 125. Section 6A(3) was enacted as a beneficial provision, both for the immigrants who entered into Assam before 25.03.1971 as well as for the people of Assam. It confers citizenship in a graded manner upon all such persons who meet the conditions specified therein. On the other hand, by implication, it denies the benefit of citizenship to illegal immigrants of the post-1971 stream. Additionally, it also prescribes a stricter citizenship regime for the class of immigrants who came between 01.01.1966 and 24.03.1971 including the deletion of names of such immigrants from the electoral rolls. The key intent behind inserting Section 6A and conferring citizenship only upon a limited segment of persons, that too by a retrospective cut-off date, was to ensure that apart from a very limited number of immigrants who had already come into Assam much before the enactment of Section 6A, all other illegal immigrants shall be expelled and no other benefit would be provided.