Whenever called upon to adjudicate, 638 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the court would act in conjunction with what is real and substantial justice. The injury, if any, caused by the act of the court shall be undone and the gain which the party would have earned unless it was interdicted by the of the court would be restored to or conferred on the party by suitably commanding the party liable to do so. Any opinion to the contrary would lead to unjust if not disastrous consequences. Litigation may turn into a fruitful industry. Though litigation is not gambling yet there is an element of chance in every litigation. Unscrupulous litigants may feel encouraged to approach the courts, persuading the court to pass interlocutory s favourable to them by making out a prima facie case when the issues are yet to be heard and determined on merits and if the concept of restitution is excluded from application to interim s, then the litigant would stand to gain by swallowing the benefits yielding out of the interim even though the battle has been lost at the end. This cannot be countenanced. We are, therefore, of the opinion that the successful party finally held entitled to a relief assessable in terms of money at the end of the litigation, is entitled to be compensated by award of interest at a suitable reasonable rate for the period for which the interim of the court withholding the release of money had remained in operation.” 12. The principle explained by this Court in South Eastern Coal Fields (supra) as extracted above is to the effect that Section 144 CPC statutorily recognises a pre-existing rule of justice, equity and fair play. That is why it is often held that even away from Section 144 the court has inherent jurisdiction to restitution so as to do complete justice between the parties as held by Privy Council in Jai Berham vs. Kedar Nath Marwari9. It is also explained that the factor attracting applicability of restitution is not the act of the court being wrongful or a mistake or error committed by the court; the test is whether on account of an act of the party persuading the court to pass an held at the end as not sustainable, has resulted in one party gaining an advantage which it would not have otherwise earned. 9 AIR 1922 PC 269 [2024] 6 S.C.R. 639 Bhikchand S/o Dhondiram Mutha (Deceased) Through Lrs. v. Shamabai Dhanraj Gugale (Deceased) Through Lrs. 13. In the matter of Binayak Swain (supra), this Court held that the obligation for restitution arises automatically on the reversal or modification of the decree and necessarily carries with it the right to restitution of all that has been done under the erroneous decree; and the Court in making restitution is bound to restore the parties, so far as they can be restored to the same position they were in at the time when the Court by its erroneous action had displaced them from.