SICA furthermore was enacted to secure the principles specified in Article 39 of the Constitution of India. It seeks to give effect to the larger public interest. It should be given primacy because of its higher public purpose. Section 26 of SICA bars the jurisdiction of the civil courts. 32. What scheme should be prepared by the operating agency for revival and rehabilitation of the sick 380 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports industrial company is within the domain of BIFR. Section 26 not only covers s passed under SICA but also any matter which BIFR is empowered to determine. 33. The jurisdiction of the civil court is, thus, barred in respect of any matter for which the Appellate Authority or the Board is empowered. The High Court may not be a civil court but its jurisdiction in a case of this nature is limited.” 12. If the civil court’s jurisdiction was ousted in terms of the provisions of Section 22 of the Act, any rendered by it would be coram non judice. It is a well-settled principle of law that a and decree passed by a court or tribunal lacking inherent jurisdiction would be a nullity. In Kiran Singh v. Chaman Paswan [AIR 1954 SC 340] this Court held: (AIR p. 342, para 6) “6. … It is a fundamental principle well established that a decree passed by a court without jurisdiction is a nullity, and that its invalidity could be set up whenever and wherever it is sought to be enforced or relied upon, even at the stage of execution and even in collateral proceedings. A defect of jurisdiction, whether it is pecuniary or territorial, or whether it is in respect of the subject-matter of the action, strikes at the very authority of the court to pass any decree, and such a defect cannot be cured even by consent of parties.” (See also Chief Engineer, Hydel Project v. Ravinder Nath [(2008) 2 SCC 350 : (2008) 1 SCC (L&S) 940], SCC p. 361, para 26. )” 104. A perusal of the above indicates that in Tata Motors (supra), it was Section 26 and not Section 22 of the 1985 Act which was under consideration. As opposed to Section 26 of the Act, which bars the jurisdiction of the civil courts in respect of those matters for which the BIFR or the AAIFR are empowered, Section 22 only places a temporary embargo on the initiation or continuation of legal proceedings in respect of certain matters mentioned therein. Further, [2024] 5 S.C.R. 381 Fertilizer Corporation of India Limited & Ors. v. M/s Coromandal Sacks Private Limited unlike Section 22, where the said suspension can be revoked by seeking express permission of the BIFR or the AAIFR, no such permission can be sought under Section 26 of the 1985 Act. Again, in any view of the matter, the adjudication and determination of a contested liability under a contract is undoubtedly the domain of the civil court or an arbitral tribunal and not that of the BIFR or the AAIFR.