So also, the quality and creditability of the evidence required to bring home the guilt of the accused cannot be different in cases where the investigation is satisfactory vis-à-vis cases in which it is not. The rules of evidence and the standards by which the same has to be evaluated also cannot be different in cases depending upon whether the case has any communal overtones or in an ordinary crime for passion, gain or avarice. (Emphasis supplied) 22. Having observed as extracted supra, the High Court held that the appellant deserved acquittal. Keeping in view the aforesaid authorities, the question then is, could the High Court have ed the crime to be re-investigated? 23. Firstly, what must be acknowledged is that there exists a clear difference between retrial and reinvestigation. Retrial implies that the judicial process that starts after the investigation of the crime is complete shall be redone from the start, whereas the latter implies that the police and other investigating authorities are once again required to collect and examine evidence in to present charges before a Court, so that the trial can commence on such freshly collected evidence. 24. Section 386(b) of Cr.P.C, extracted supra, as also the s referred to in the earlier portion of this , unanimously speak of retrial and not reinvestigation. Section 173(8) of the Cr.P.C provides for further investigation with the permission of the magistrate, but not reinvestigation. Such a concept, as it appears, is only invoked in extraneous circumstances. The mere observation that the investigating authorities may have taken a lackadaisical ethical approach does not warrant the accused being put through the wringer once more for the same offence. 25. Learned counsel for the respondent while supporting the contention that the High Court had the requisite power to reinvestigation cited the of this Court in Devendra Nath Singh (supra), wherein, relying on Vinay Tyagi v. Irshad Ali27 it has been observed 27 (2013) 5 SCC 762 [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1571 P. Manikandan v. Central Bureau of Investigation and Ors. that fresh, de novo and reinvestigation are synonymous expressions and the law applicable thereon would be the same. This observation, we find, was made in the context of Section 482 Cr.PC or Article 226 of the Constitution of India. In the present case, however, the direction for reinvestigation was given under Section 386 Cr.PC. Since the applicable power is different in the present case, Devendra Nath (supra) is distinguished on facts. 26. In that view of the matter, the direction of the High Court, transferring the investigation to CBI and directing them to reinvestigate the offence allegedly committed, was without the authority of law and, therefore, has to be set aside. We may notice certain authorities of this Court where observations have been made qua transfer of investigation to C.B.I., as follows:- (a) State of W.B. v. Committee for Protection of Democratic Rights:28 “70. Before parting with the case, we deem it necessary to emphasise that despite wide powers conferred by Articles 32 and 226 of the Constitution, while passing any , the Courts must bear in mind certain self-imposed limitations on the exercise of these constitutional powers.