There is no reason, at this stage, to doubt the authenticity of the soft files. There is also prima facie material to show a deposit of cash amount of Rs.1.34 crores in the appellant’s bank account. At this stage, the contention of the appellant regarding the deposit of remuneration received as MLA and agriculture income cannot be accepted in the absence of any prima facie evidence to show the existence of the appellant’s cash income as MLA and the appellant’s agriculture income. Therefore, at this stage, it will be very difficult to hold that there is no prima facie case against the appellant in the complaint under Section 44 (1)(b) of the PMLA and material relied upon therein. EFFECT OF THE DELAY IN DISPOSAL OF THE CASES 14. As of now, the appellant has been incarcerated for more than 15 months in connection with the offence punishable under Section 4 of the PMLA. The minimum punishment for an offence punishable under Section 4 is imprisonment for three years, which may extend to seven years. If the scheduled offences are under paragraph 2 of Part A of the Schedule in the PMLA, the sentence may extend to 10 years. In the appellant’s case, the maximum sentence can be of 7 years as there is no scheduled offence under paragraph 2 of Part A of Schedule II alleged against the appellant. 15. We have already narrated that there are three scheduled offences. In the main case (CC Nos. 22 and 24 of 2021), there are about 2000 accused and 550 prosecution witnesses cited. Thus, it can be said that there are more than 2000 accused in the three scheduled offences, and the number of witnesses proposed to be examined exceeds 600. 16. This Bench is also dealing with MA no.1381 of 2024 seeking various reliefs such as a transfer of investigation of scheduled offences, appointment of special public prosecutor etc. The s passed 402 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports in the said application would reveal that the sanction to prosecute all public servants, including the appellant, has now been granted. Charges have not been framed in the scheduled offences. 17. Thus, on the issue of framing of charge or discharge, a large number of accused will have to be heard. The trial of the scheduled offences will be a warrant case. Therefore, even if the trials of the scheduled offences are expedited, the process of framing charges may take a few months as many advocates representing more than 2000 accused persons will have to be heard. There are bound to be further proceedings arising out of s on charge. After that, more than 600 witnesses will have to be examined. Documentary and electronic evidence is relied upon in the scheduled offences. Even if few witnesses are dropped, a few hundred witnesses will have to be examined. Presence of all the accused will have to be procured and their statements under Section 313 of the Code of Criminal Procedure,1973 will have to be recorded.