22. The further support of the above view can be taken from paragraph 16 of the decision in Malati Sardar’s case (supra), extracted hereinbefore, wherein this Court held that provision under Section 166 for grant of compensation in respect of an accident of the nature specified in Sub-section (1) of Section 165 being a benevolent provision for the victims of accidents of negligent driving, the provision for territorial jurisdiction has to be interpreted consistent with the object of facilitating remedies for the victims of accident. Furthermore, it was held in the said decision that hyper technical approach in such matters could hardly be appreciated and there would be no bar to a claim petition being filed at a place where the insurance company, which is the main contesting party in such cases, has its business. 23. In the aforementioned context, it is worthwhile to note the prejudice rather, failure of justice caused to the applicant in the case on hand, is evident from the very award of the Claims Tribunal though it escaped the attention of the High Court. The claim petition filed in the year 2006 was dismissed on the ground of lack of territorial jurisdiction not at the threshold, but only on 06.10.2010. Dismissal, simpliciter of a claim petition on the ground of lack of territorial jurisdiction would not and could not disable the claimant concerned to initiate another proceeding before the Claims Tribunal of competence. However, a bare perusal of the award passed by the Tribunal, to be precise paragraph 21 would reveal that after returning an adverse finding on the question of territorial jurisdiction against the claimant, the Tribunal proceeded further and decided all other issues framed for the consideration viz., issues No.1 to 4, 6 and 7 (extracted hereinbefore) against the claimant and in favour of the opposite parties, that too, [2024] 2 S.C.R. 1217 Balveer Batra v. The New India Assurance Company & Anr. after making it clear that it had no occasion to examine such issues on merits. Paragraph 21 of the award reads thus:- “21. ISSUES NO.1, 2, 3, 4, 6 & 7: At the main issue (issue no.5) for territorial jurisdiction of this tribunal has been decided against the claimants, hence there is no occasion to examine the other issues on merits. In view of above issue No.1, 2, 3, 4, 6 and 7 are also decided against the claimants and in favour of the opposite parties.” 24. There cannot be any dispute with respect to the fact that when such a finding is entered in respect of those issues framed, may be after making an observation that the Tribunal got no occasion to examine such issues on merits, the claimant would not be in a position to initiate another proceeding before another Claims Tribunal having territorial jurisdiction. In this regard it is to be noted that lacking territorial jurisdiction cannot be a reason, in view of Section 165 (1), M.V. Act, to say that Claims Tribunal was not having competence to adjudicate the subject-matter of the claim petition.