Hence, it is for the legislature to devise an appropriate measure of tax to compute the tax liability, provided the measure has a nexus with the nature of levy, that is a tax on mineral rights. ii. The limitations on the taxing power of the State under Entry 50 of List II 190. Entry 50 of List II is unique because though it is a taxing entry, it is made subject to “any limitations imposed by Parliament by law relating to mineral development.” Thus, the taxing power of the state is capable of being controlled by a non-fiscal enactment by Parliament relating to the development of minerals. This seems to recognize that a fiscal imposition in the nature of a tax on mineral rights by a state may impact on the development of minerals. That is why the former has been made subject to a law relatable to mineral development enacted by Parliament. 191. The common thread between Entry 54 of List I and Entries 23 and 50 of List II is the use of the phrase “mineral development”. Entry 54 of List I and Entry 23 of List II deal with the same subject matter namely, of the regulation of mines and mineral development, where the latter is subordinated to the former to the extent to which Parliament brings the field under its control. In the above segments, we have analyzed the decisions of this Court in Hingir-Rampur (supra), MA Tulloch (supra), and Baijnath Kedia (supra) where it was held that Entry 23 of List II is pro tanto excluded to the extent to which the Parliamentary legislation enacted in terms of Entry 54 of List I covers the field. 260 See Anant Mills Co. Ltd. v. State of Gujarat (1975) 2 SCC 175 [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1681 Mineral Area Development Authority & Anr. v. M/s Steel Authority of India & Anr. Etc. a. Entry 50 of List II does not constitute an exception to the Sundararamier principle 192. The position which was enunciated in M P V Sundararamier (supra) and accepted in Jindal Stainless Ltd (supra) is that the field of taxation is distinct from the general subjects of legislation in the Union and State lists of the Seventh Schedule. The issue which needs to be addressed is whether Entry 50 of List II is an exception to the position which has been laid down in M P V Sundararamier (supra) in view of the fact that the ambit of a taxing entry is sought to be restricted by a regulatory entry. A related issue is whether Parliament has the legislative competence to tax mineral rights under its residuary powers. 193. The decision in Hoechst Pharmaceuticals (supra) interpreted the relationship between Entry 54 of List II and Entry 92A of List I. Entry 54 of List II, before amendment, was subject to the provisions of Entry 92A of List I.261 The entry was substituted by the Constitution (One Hundred and First Amendment) Act 2016. The Bihar Finance Act 1981 levied a surcharge on dealers.