The relevant portion of Section 38 is reproduced below: “38. Power to take possession of land to be acquired. – (1) The Collector shall take possession of land after ensuring that full payment of compensation as well as rehabilitation and resettlement entitlements are paid or tendered to the entitled persons within a period of three months for the compensation and a period of six months for the monetary part of rehabilitation and resettlement entitlements listed in the Second Schedule commencing from the date of the award made under section 30: Provided that the components of the Rehabilitation and Resettlement Package in the Second and Third Schedules that relate to infrastructural entitlements shall be provided within a period of eighteen months from the date of the award: Provided further that in case of acquisition of land for irrigation or hydel project, being a public purpose, the rehabilitation and resettlement shall be completed six months prior to submergence of the lands acquired…” [Emphasis supplied] 52. A bare reading of Section 38 as reproduced above indicates that the payment of full and final compensation to the land owners is a precursor to taking possession of the land sought to be acquired from such persons. It is clear from the facts that the acquisition proceedings herein failed to confirm to this statutorily mandated sequence of events. It is regrettable that the State of Himachal Pradesh, being a welfare state, did not ensure payment of compensation to the Respondent Nos. 1-6 before taking possession of their land. In fact, the landowners had to approach the High Court to seek directions to the LAC for passing of the supplementary award which was finally passed on 02.05.2022 that is, after a period of almost four years from the date of passing of the Award of 2018. [2024] 9 S.C.R. 471 M/s Ultra-Tech Cement Ltd. v. Mast Ram & Ors. 53. Further, the acquisition proceedings for the subject land had commenced vide the notification under Section 4 dated 25.07.2008. In such circumstances it is necessary to consider the relevant provisions of the 1894 Act, more particularly Section 41 thereof which pertains to the process required to be followed in cases of acquisition of land for companies. The relevant portion of Section 41 of the 1894 Act is reproduced below: “41. Agreement with appropriate Government. – If the appropriate Government is satisfied [after considering the report, if any, of the Collector under section 5A, sub- section (2), or on the report of the officer making an inquiry under section 40 that the proposed acquisition is for any of the purposes referred to in clause (a) or clause (aa) or clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 40, it shall require the Company to enter into an agreement with the appropriate Government, providing to the satisfaction of the appropriate Government for the following matters, namely :- (1) the payment to the appropriate Government of the cost of the acquisition; (2) the transfer, on such payment, of the land to the Company….” [Emphasis supplied] 54.