As a result, only 31 candidates were found to have qualified both in the written examination and interview. In consequence, a revised merit list of only 31 successful candidates was prepared wherein few candidates, earlier selected, were ousted and few others who did not find place in the earlier select list gained entry. However, out of those 31 candidates only 9 were recommended for appointment. 19. In that factual context, two candidates whose names found mention in the first list, and who got excluded in the second list, filed writ petitions by claiming that High Court’s decision to prepare selection list by prescribing minimum qualifying marks for the interview was arbitrary and illegal. They thus sought a direction to the High Court to redraw the select list without adopting minimum qualifying marks for the interview. The writ petitions were dismissed by the High Court. Being aggrieved, the writ petitioners preferred SLPs24 before this Court. This Court while granting leave and allowing the appeal of the writ petitioners held that the High Court, though was correct in scaling down marks of written examination from 100 to 75, was not legally justified in directing that only those candidates would be placed in the merit list who obtained such minimum marks in the interview as was specified by the Committee. Key observations of this Court in K. Manjusree (supra) are being extracted below: "22. … the interview Committee conducted the interviews on 13.3.2006 … on the understanding that there were no minimum marks for interviews, that the marks awarded 24 Special Leave Petitions. 50 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports by them would not by itself have the effect of excluding or ousting any candidate from being selected, and that marks awarded by them in the interviews will merely be added to the written examination marks, for preparation of the merit list and selection list. We are referring to this aspect, as the matter of conducting interviews and awarding marks in interviews, by five members of the interviewing committee would have been markedly different if they had to proceed on the basis that there were minimum marks to be secured in the interview for being considered for selection and that the marks are awarded by them would have the effect of barring or ousting any candidate from being considered for selection. Thus, the entire process of selection – from the stage of holding the examination, holding interviews and finalising the list of candidates to be selected – was done by the Selection Committee on the basis that there was no minimum marks for the interview. To put it differently the game was played under the rule that there was no minimum marks for the interview. 27. …Therefore, introduction of the requirement of minimum marks for interview, after the entire selection process consisting of written examination and interview was completed, would amount to changing the rules of the game after the game was played which is clearly impermissible. 33. …We may clarify that prescription of minimum marks for any interview is not illegal.