While he is in enjoyment of the freedom on account of remission, that period is not even reckoned under Section 401 CrPC for the purpose of calculation of the sentence to be served in the eventuality.” (emphasis added) 15. The effect of remitting the sentence is the restoration of the liberty of a convict. If the granting remission is to be cancelled or revoked, it will naturally affect the convict’s liberty. The reason is that when an action is taken under sub-section (3) of Section 432 of the CrPC or sub- section (3) of Section 473 of the BNSS, it results in the convict being taken to prison for undergoing the remaining part of the sentence. Thus, the benefit of remission stands withdrawn. Therefore, this drastic power cannot be exercised without following the principles of natural justice. A show cause notice must be served on the convict before taking action to withdraw/cancel remission. The show cause notice must contain the grounds on which action under sub-section (3) of Section 432 of the CrPC or sub-section (3) of Section 473 of the BNSS is proposed to be taken. The concerned authority must give the convict an opportunity to file a reply and of being heard. After that, the authority must [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1459 Mafabhai Motibhai Sagar v. State of Gujarat & Ors. pass an stating brief reasons. The principles of natural justice must be read into sub-section (3) of Section 432 and sub- section (3) of Section 473 of the BNSS. The convict whose remission has been cancelled can always adopt a remedy under Article 226 of the Constitution of India. 16. In view of the legal position stated above, condition no.2 cannot be interpreted to mean that every allegation of a breach thereof would automatically result in the cancellation of the of remission. Registration of a cognizable offence against the convict, per se, is not a ground to cancel the remission . The allegations of breach of condition cannot be taken at their face value, and whether a case for cancellation of remission is made out will have to be decided in the facts of each case. Every case of breach cannot invite cancellation of the of remission. The appropriate Government will have to consider the nature of the breach alleged against the convict. A minor or a trifling breach cannot be a ground to cancel remission. There must be some material to substantiate the allegations of breach. Depending upon the seriousness and gravity thereof, action can be taken under sub-section (3) of Section 432 of the CrPC or sub-section (3) of Section 473 of the BNSS of cancellation of the remitting sentence. 17. Our conclusions can be summarised as under: (i) Under sub-section (1) of Section 432 of the CrPC or sub-section (1) of Section 473 of the BNSS, the appropriate Government has the power to remit the whole or any part of the punishment of a convict. The remission can be granted either unconditionally or subject to certain conditions; (ii) The decision to grant or not to grant remission has to be well-informed, reasonable and fair to all concerned; (iii) A convict cannot seek remission as a matter of right.