47. In Shreekantiah Ramayya Munipalli v. State of Bombay reported in (1954) 2 SCC 992, this Court stressed that each case must be decided in its own facts. Herein, the Bench opined that Section 197 CrPC can never be applied if it is construed too narrowly since it is no part of an official’s duty to commit an offence and the language of the provision must be given its true meaning. However, it is not the duty but the act which has to be examined because an official act can be performed in the discharge of official duty as well as in the dereliction of it. The relevant observations are as follows: “14. Now it is obvious that if Section 197 of the Criminal Procedure Code is construed too narrowly it can never be applied, for of course it is no part of an official’s duty to commit an offence and never can be. But it is not the duty we have to examine so much as the act, because 802 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports an official act can be performed in the discharge of official duty as well as in dereliction of it. The section has content and its language must be given meaning. …” (emphasis supplied) 48. In Amrik Singh v. State of Pepsu reported in AIR 1955 SC 309, the appellant was charged under Section 465 IPC for forging the thumb-impression of an individual and under Section 409 IPC for the criminal misappropriation of a certain sum. The Court opined that if the act complained of is directly concerned with the official duty of the public servant so that, if questioned, it could be claimed to have been done by virtue of the office, then sanction would be necessary. This would be irrespective of whether it was, in fact, a proper discharge of his duties because that would really be a matter of defence on the merits which would have to be investigated at trial and not be examined at the stage of granting sanction for prosecution. Therefore, the test as to whether sanction is necessary to prosecute a public servant will depend on whether the acts complained of are so integrally connected with his duties as a public servant. If they do, then sanction is a requisite and there cannot be any uniform rule that an offence of criminal misappropriation or criminal breach of trust would always be outside the scope of Section 197 CrPC. The relevant observations are reproduced hereinbelow: “7. The result of the authorities may thus be summed up : It is not every offence committed by a public servant that requires sanction for prosecution under Section 197(1) of the Code of Criminal Procedure; nor even every act done by him while he is actually engaged in the performance of his official duties; but if the act complained of is directly concerned with his official duties so that, if questioned, it could be claimed to have been done by virtue of the office, then sanction would be necessary; and that would be so, irrespective of whether it was, in fact, a proper discharge of his duties, because that would really be a matter of defence on the merits, which would have to be investigated at the trial, and could not arise at the stage of the grant of sanction, which must precede the institution of the prosecution.