2 on the passport application of the minor child. The investigating agency initially found insufficient evidence to support charges under Sections 468 and 471 IPC. Accordingly, no chargesheet was filed under these provisions. However, in compliance with the Trial Magistrate’s dated 24.06.2015, a supplementary chargesheet was submitted under Sections 468, 471 and 201 IPC and Section 12(b) of the Passports Act, 1967. 26. It is a matter of record that in the course of ‘further investigation’, no new material was unearthed by the investigating agency. Instead, the supplementary chargesheet relies upon the Truth Lab report dated 15.07.2013, obtained by Respondent No. 2, which was already available when the original chargesheet was filed. The term ‘further investigation’ stipulated in Section 173(8) CrPC obligates the officer- in-charge of the concerned police station to ‘obtain further evidence, oral or documentary’, and only then forward a supplementary report regarding such evidence, in the prescribed form. 27. The provision for submitting a supplementary report infers that fresh oral or documentary evidence should be obtained rather than re-evaluating or reassessing the material already collected and considered by the investigating agency while submitting the initial police report, known as the chargesheet under Section 173(2) CrPC.4 In the absence of any new evidence found to substantiate the conclusions drawn by the investigating officer in the supplementary report, a Judicial Magistrate is not compelled to take cognizance, as such a report lacks investigative rigour and fails to satisfy the requisites of Section 173(8) CrPC. What becomes apparent from the facts on record of this case is that the investigating agency acted mechanically, in purported compliance with the Trial Magistrate’s dated 24.06.2015. 28. Regrettably, the Trial Magistrate, while directing further investigation, overlooked the significant aspect that the offences imputed upon the Appellants fall within the ambit of Chapter XVII, ‘Of Offences 4 Vinay Tyagi v. Irshad Ali and others, (2013) 5 SCC 762, para 22. 638 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Against Property’, and Chapter XVIII, ‘Of Offences Relating to Documents and to Property Marks’ of the IPC. All the offences delineated or illustrated under these two chapters predominantly pertain to commercial or property disputes arising from dishonest, deceitful and fraudulent transactions, wherein an individual is induced to part with their property or valuable security, leading to subsequent injury or damage. These offences typically diverge from the customary realm of matrimonial disputes, which constitute the underlying cause in this instance. 29. The Trial Magistrate, prior to entertaining the application filed by Respondent No. 2, should have applied his mind and posed certain queries in to find out as to: (i) Why does Respondent No. 2 want to deprive his minor child of a passport? ; (ii) Is it the case that he did not want his minor child to join his company in London? ; (iii) How has Respondent No. 2 secured the maintenance, education and future prospects of the minor child? ; (iv) Does the minor child have a civil right to hold a passport even if one of his parents does not accord consent?