Whereas, when it comes to the principle of ‘Seniority-cum-Merit’, the promotion is to be made on the basis of seniority alone subject to having the minimum requisite merit and suitability of the candidate amongst the eligible persons. The relevant observations read as under: - “9. The principle of ‘merit-cum-seniority lays greater emphasis on merit and ability and seniority plays a less significant role. Seniority is to be given weight only where merit and ability are approximately equal. [...] xxx xxx xxx [2024] 5 S.C.R. 1121 Ravikumar Dhansukhlal Maheta & Anr. v. High Court of Gujarat & Ors. 18. We thus arrive at the conclusion that the criterion of ‘seniority-cum-merit’ in the matter of promotion postulates that given the minimum necessary merit requisite for efficiency of administration the senior, even though less meritorious, shall have priority and a comparative assessment of merit is not required to be made. For assessing the minimum necessary merit the competent authority can lay down the minimum standard that is required and also prescribe the mode of assessment of merit of the employee who is eligible for consideration for promotion. Such assessment can be made by assigning marks on the basis of appraisal of performance on the basis of service record and interview and prescribing the minimum marks which would entitle a person to be promoted on the basis of seniority-cum-merit.” (Emphasis supplied) (ii) Secondly, the principle of ‘Merit-cum-Seniority’ postulates the requirement of making a comparative assessment of merit, whereas no such comparative assessment is required where the criterion for promotion is based on the principle of ‘Seniority- cum-Merit’. Even if the candidates have the same length of service, it is only to be determined whether the candidates possess the minimum required threshold of merit or not. The relevant observations read as under: - “15. [...] Since comparation assessment of merit is required to made while applying the criterion of ‘merit cum-seniority’ and for ‘seniority-cum merit’ no such comparative assessment is required, the aforementioned observations in the case of C.R. Seshadri (supra) on which reliance has been placed cannot be regarded as correctly reflecting as what is meant by the criterion of ‘seniority-cum-merit’. xxx xxx xxx 17. [...] We are unable to agree. While applying the principle of seniority-cum-merit for the purpose of promotion what is required to be considered is inter 1122 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports se seniority of the employees who are eligible for consideration. Such seniority is normally determined on the basis of length of service, but as between employees appointed on the same date and having the same length of service, it is generally determined on the basis of placement in the select list for appointment. Such determination of seniority confers certain rights and the principle of seniority-cum-merit gives effect to the such rights flowing from seniority. It cannot, therefore, be said that in the matter of promotion on the basis of seniority-cum-merit seniority has no role where the employees eligible for promotion were appointed on the same date and have the same length of service.” (Emphasis supplied) (iii) Thirdly, the Court concluded by observing that where the criterion of promotion is principle of ‘Seniority-cum-Merit’, marks can only be prescribed as a ‘minimum qualifying requirement’ and as such where promotion was being given to the eligible seniormost candidates on the basis of their individual marks, such promotion would be contrary to the principle of ‘Seniority- cum-Merit’.