31. Learned Senior Counsel further contended that to claim change in law (restitution), three essential ingredients are necessary namely (a) The event must be after the cutoff date (b) it must be an event stipulated in Article 13.1.1 (1 to 4) of the PPA and (c) it must result in change in cost of or revenue from the business of selling electricity under the PPA. 32. Learned Senior Counsel contends that the respondent to claim relief under, ‘change in law’ must establish with documentary proof that consequent to change in law there has been a decrease in capital cost and since the appellant in its bid submitted on 09.10.2009 had factored in the benefit derived from the Cabinet Decision in relation to Mega projects, it received no economic benefit and there was no change in the cost or revenue from the business of selling electricity under the PPA in view of the issuance of the notification on 11.12.2009. 33. Learned senior counsel contended that there was no notice for change in law issued by the respondent under Article 13.3.2; no proof of reduction in capital cost and no issuance of supplementary bill. Further, learned senior counsel contended that no petition claiming change in law or any counter claim to the same effect was filed by the respondent and it was the appellant which approached the State Commission contending that the Cabinet Decision dated 01.10.2009 is law as on the cutoff date and thus, there was no change in law event enuring to the advantage of the respondent. It is further contended for the appellant that the Mega Power Policy issued in 2006 was issued by way of an executive decision and [2024] 11 S.C.R. 471 Nabha Power Limited & Anr. v. Punjab State Power Coroporation Limited & Anr. that the present Cabinet Decision is also issued under Article 77 of the Constitution of India; that the requirement to place the Cabinet Decision before the President is only for information and on this aspect no Presidential assent is a prerequisite. Lastly, it is contended that as per Rule 50(13) of the Central Secretariat, Manual of Office Procedure, the Press Communique/Note is the approved formal procedure of communication. Learned senior counsel relied on a large number of precedents in support of his submissions. Submission of the Respondent 34. While stoutly defending the s of the fora below, learned senior counsel for the respondent contends that change in law for the purpose of customs duty insofar as the appellant is concerned was brought into force only on 11.12.2009 with the issuance of customs notification under Section 25 of the Customs Act 1962; that Section 25(1) of the said Act provides for exemption from the payment of customs duty to be by notification; that Sub-Section 4 of Section 25 inter alia provides that every notification unless otherwise provided shall come into force on the date of its issue by the Central Government for publication in the Official Gazette and that Cabinet Decision by itself cannot therefore effect such a change without a notification under Section 25 since if something is specified to be done in a particular manner it needs to be done in that manner and in no other.