Sunita Khemka and Smt. Shivani Khemka, among several other individuals and entities, with immediate effect. It was further clarified that contravention of the would render the Branch Manager liable under Section 275A of the IT Act and the same would result in penal action. 3.3 In compliance of the aforesaid , the appellant-bank stopped the operation of the bank accounts, bank lockers and fixed deposits of the individuals/entities mentioned in the . Further, on 7th October, 2021, the appellant-bank blocked the bank accounts of the income-tax assesses named in the and also sealed the bank locker bearing No. 462 belonging to Smt. Sunita Khemka. 3.4 Subsequently, on 1st November, 2021, Respondent No. 5 issued an to the Branch Manager of the appellant-bank at its aforementioned branch thereby directing the appellant-bank to revoke the restraint put on the bank accounts of Smt. Sunita Khemka and three other persons, in view of the restraining dated 5th October, 2021 passed under Section 132(3) of the IT Act. Accordingly, the said persons, including Smt. Sunita Khemka, were to be allowed to operate their bank accounts. The said was received by the concerned Branch Manager of the appellant-bank of 8th November, 2021 at 4:00 p.m. However, 4 ‘IT Act’ for short. 1906 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports on 2nd November, 2021 at 11:24 a.m., an email was sent to the Branch Manager which contained the same . 3.5 Thereafter, on 9th November, 2021, the concerned branch of the appellant-bank allowed Smt. Sunita Khemka to operate her bank locker bearing No. 462 and proper entries recording the operation of the said locker were made in the bank’s records. 3.6 Subsequently, on 20th November, 2021, Respondent No. 5 conducted a search and seizure operation at the aforementioned bank locker in the concerned branch of the appellant-bank wherein it was found that Smt. Sunita Khemka had operated her bank locker with the assistance of the concerned officers of the appellant-bank. This was validated by the entry made in the bank’s records and the CCTV footage of the bank. Resultantly, the concerned officials of the aforementioned branch of the appellant-bank were found to have breached the restraining dated 5th October, 2021. 3.7 Accordingly, on 20th November, 2021, Respondent No. 5 issued summons under Section 131(1A) of the IT Act to Abha Sinha- Branch Manager, Abhishek Kumar-Branch Operation Manager and Deepak Kumar-Teller Authoriser being the concerned officials of the appellant-bank at its aforementioned branch. 3.8 The aforementioned officials attended the office of Respondent No. 5 and their statements were recorded wherein Abha Sinha and Abhishek Kumar stated that there had been an inadvertent error on the part of the bank officials and they had misinterpreted the dated 1st November, 2021. Since the said pertained to the bank accounts of the concerned individuals including Smt. Sunita Khemka, the bank officials had misread the to understand /assume that the revocation of the restraint extended to the bank lockers as well. Having misunderstood the , the bank officials under a bona fide assumption that bank locker had been released as well, allowed Smt.