16. After the pronouncement of the aforesaid verdict, a controversy is said to have emerged anent the true obligations of a Muslim husband to [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1257 Mohd. Abdul Samad v. The State of Telangana & Anr. pay maintenance to his divorced wife, particularly beyond the iddat period. The Parliament, as an attempt to clarify the position, brought about the 1986 Act. Herein, it was sought to specify the entitlements of such a woman at the time of divorce. Section 3 of the 1986 Act deals with this aspect and reads as follows: “3. Mahr or other properties of Muslim woman to be given to her at the time of divorce.— (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, a divorced woman shall be entitled to— (a) a reasonable and fair provision and maintenance to be made and paid to her within the iddat period by her former husband; (b) where she herself maintains the children born to her before or after her divorce, a reasonable and fair provision and maintenance to be made and paid by her former husband for a period of two years from the respective dates of birth of such children; (c) an amount equal to the sum of mahr or dower agreed to be paid to her at the time of her marriage or at any time thereafter according to Muslim law; and (d) all the properties given to her before or at the time of marriage or after her marriage by her relatives or friends or the husband or any relatives of the husband or his friends. (2) Where a reasonable and fair provision and maintenance or the amount of mahr or dower due has not been made or paid or the properties referred to in clause (d) of sub-section (1) have not been delivered to a divorced woman on her divorce, she or any one duly authorised by her may, on her behalf, make an application to a Magistrate for an for payment of such provision and maintenance, mahr or dower or the delivery of properties, as the case may be. 1258 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (3) Where an application has been made under sub- section (2) by a divorced woman, the Magistrate may, if he is satisfied that— (a) her husband having sufficient means, has failed or neglected to make or pay her within the iddat period a reasonable and fair provision and maintenance for her and the children; or (b) the amount equal to the sum of mahr or dower has not been paid or that the properties referred to in clause (d) of sub-section (1) have not been delivered to her, make an , within one month of the date of the filing of the application, directing her former husband to pay such reasonable and fair provision and maintenance to the divorced woman as he may determine as it and proper having regard to the needs of the divorced woman, the standard of life enjoyed by her during her marriage and the means of her former husband or, as the case may be, for the payment of such mahr or dower or the delivery of such properties referred to in clause (d) of sub-section (1) the divorced woman: Provided that if the Magistrate finds it impracticable to dispose of the application within the said period, he may, for reasons to be recorded by him, dispose of the application after the said period.