Hence, both these Acts as on the date have been declared as unconstitutional. It is further required to be noted that E.V. Chinnaiah decided in 2005 was holding the field for about 15 years till the Five-Judge Bench in Davinder Singh, on the reference made by the Three-Judge Bench, further referred the matters to the Seven-Judge Bench in 2020. 17. It is noteworthy that the Three-Judge Bench had referred the matters to the larger Bench without assigning any reason much less cogent reason as to why it could not agree with the decision in E.V. Chinnaiah delivered by the Constitution Bench. The law which was settled by the Constitution Bench and was prevalent since 15 years was sought to be doubted and unsettled by a Three-Judge Bench * (2005) 1 SCC 394 [Ed note: This * mark refers to footnote 4] [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1599 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. by passing a very cryptic and perfunctory not supported by any reason, as quoted hereinabove. 18. A Five-Judge Bench in Pradip Chandra Parija and Others Vs. Pramod Chandra Patnaik and Others,8 while examining the propriety of the Bench of two Judges doubting the correctness of a decision of a Bench of three Judges and directly referring the matter to the Bench of five Judges, had observed that judicial discipline and propriety demands that a Bench of two learned judges should follow a decision of a Bench of three learned judges, but if a Bench of two learned Judges concludes that an earlier of three learned Judges is so very incorrect that in no circumstances, can it be followed, the proper course for it to adopt would be to refer the matter before it to a Bench of three learned Judges setting out, the reasons why it could not agree with the earlier . 19. The importance of the doctrine of binding Precedents in the administration of our judicial system hardly needs to be reiterated. The doctrines of Precedents and Stare decisis are the core values of our legal system. In series of cases, the Constitution Benches of this Court have time and again emphasized that when a decision is rendered by this Court, it acquires a reliance interest and the society organizes itself based on such legal . When substantial judicial time and resources are spent on the References by the Constitution Benches, the same should not be further referred to the larger Bench by a smaller Bench, in a casual or cavalier manner, and without recording the reasons for disagreement. 20. As back as in 1974 a Seven-Judge Bench in Maganlal ChhaganLal (P) Ltd. vs. Municipal Corporation of Greater Bombay & Others,9 H.R. Khanna, J. had remarked that certainty in the law, which was an essential ingredient of the Rule of Law, would be considerably eroded if the highest Court of the land lightly overruled the view expressed by it in earlier cases. One instance where such overruling could be permissible, according to him, was a situation where contextualvalues giving birth to the earlier view had subsequently altered substantially.