Lacking precedent, the court can always be guided by that light and the guidance thus shed by the trinity of our Constitution.” 143. In Central Inland Water Transport Corporation v. Brojo Nath Ganguly,258 this Court had to decide on the validity of Rule 9 of 255 1959 SCC OnLine SC 4 256 Murlidhar Aggarwal v. State of UP (1974) 2 SCC 472 [32] 257 1991 Supp (1) SCC 600 258 (1986) 3 SCC 156 2264 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports Central Inland Water Transport Corporation Ltd Service Discipline and Appeal Rules 1979 which empowered the corporation to terminate the employment of its permanent employees with three months’ notice. These rules constituted part of the contract of employment between the Corporation and its employees. The issue before this Court was whether Rule 9 was void under Section 23 of the Contract Act for being opposed to public policy. It was held that the court could refuse to enforce an unfair and unreasonable clause in a contract entered into between parties who are not equal in bargaining power: “89. […] The Constitution was enacted to secure to all the citizens of this country social and economic justice. Article 14 of the Constitution guarantees to all persons equality before the law and the equal protection of the laws. The principle deducible from the above discussions on this part of the case is in consonance with right and reason, intended to secure social and economic justice and conforms to the mandate of the great equality clause in Article 14. This principle is that the courts will not enforce and will, when called upon to do so, strike down an unfair and unreasonable contract, or an unfair and unreasonable clause in a contract, entered into between parties who are not equal in bargaining power. It is difficult to give an exhaustive list of all bargains of this type. No court can visualize the different situations which can arise in the affairs of men. One can only attempt to give some illustrations. For instance, the above principle will apply where the inequality of bargaining power is the result of the great disparity in the economic strength of the contracting parties. It will apply where the inequality is the result of circumstances, whether of the creation of the parties or not. It will apply to situations in which the weaker party is in a position in which he can obtain goods or services or means of livelihood only upon the terms imposed by the stronger party or go without them. It will also apply where a man has no choice, or rather no meaningful choice, but to give his assent to a contract or to sign on the dotted line in a prescribed or standard form or to accept a set of rules as part of the contract, however unfair, unreasonable and [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2265 Central Organisation for Railway Electrification v. M/s ECI SPIC SMO MCML (JV) A Joint Venture Company unconscionable a clause in that contract or form or rules may be.