Be that as it may the only limited status left of such members would be that their name would continue to be in the Roll of the Society and at best by clearing of the arrears of the membership fee in addition to any penalty or fine liable to be charged for being reinstated as valid members would survive to them. Such defaulting members could have applied that they are ready and willing to pay their arrears and upon such application and payment being made, the effect of the proviso to Section 15 of the Registration Act could be considered by the appropriate officer/Committee of the Society. Till such time they would continue to remain as suspended members having no right to participate in any meeting. 24. The Executive Body or any other body competent under the bye-laws could take up their matter and give them a show cause notice and opportunity to save their membership by fulfilling their obligations failing which their membership would be terminated. When despite the same, they would not fulfil their obligations their membership would be declared to have been terminated. [2024] 1 S.C.R. 1079 Adv Babasaheb Wasade & Ors. v. Manohar Gangadhar Muddeshwar & Ors. 25. This Court in the case of Hyderabad Karnataka Education Society (supra) was dealing with a similar provision under Rule 7-A of the Rules framed by Hyderabad Karnataka Education Society, read with Section 2(b) and Section 6(2) proviso of the Karnataka Societies Registration Act, 1960. Section 2(b) of the said Act defined ‘member’ which provided that to be treated as a member of the Society for the year concerned, he should have been admitted to that membership in accordance with rules and regulations and shall have paid the subscription as laid down therein. Section 6(2) of the said Act was akin to the proviso to Section 15 of the Registration Act that in default of payment of membership fee for more than three months, the membership would cease. The validity of such rule 7-A was challenged before the High Court which found the same to be very harsh and accordingly had held it to be ultra vires of Section 6(2) of the Karnataka Societies Registration Act, 1960. This Court disagreed with the reasoning given by the High Court and accordingly set it aside. This Court held that the said rule could not be said to be harsh or unreasonable, rather it was in line and in tune if it is read with Section 2(b) and Section 6(2) of the said Act. 26. It is true that in the bye-laws of the present Society or the Rules of the Society, there is no such provision of automatic cessation of membership where a member goes in default of payment of membership fee for more than three months. However, the effect of the proviso to Section 15 of the Registration Act which admittedly is applicable to the Society, the Objectors have to be treated as suspended members and therefore, would not be entitled to any notice as they had no right to vote or to be counted as members.