116. Section 12(5) automatically disqualifies any person whose relationship with the parties or counsel or subject matter of the dispute falls under any of the categories mentioned under the Seventh Schedule. The categories listed in the Seventh Schedule in essence denote situations where an arbitrator might have a pecuniary, proprietary, or cause-based interest in the arbitration. For instance, employees of either of the parties are barred from acting as an arbitrator because they have an immediate financial and cause-based interest in the arbitration. If such an employee is appointed as an arbitrator, they would be sitting as a judge in their cause because they have a pecuniary interest in the outcome of the case. 117. In Voestalpine (supra), this Court observed that an individual who had previously served the government, a public sector corporation or a statutory corporation but had no connection to the party in dispute could not be held to be ineligible for appointment as an arbitrator. The Court observed: “25. It cannot be said that simply because the person is a retired officer who retired from the government or other statutory corporation or public sector undertaking and had no connection with DMRC (the party in dispute), he would be treated as ineligible to act as an arbitrator. Had this been the intention of the legislature, the Seventh Schedule would have covered such persons as well. Bias or even real likelihood of bias cannot be attributed to such 223 Garn Born (supra) 1912 [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2253 Central Organisation for Railway Electrification v. M/s ECI SPIC SMO MCML (JV) A Joint Venture Company highly qualified and experienced persons, simply on the ground that they served the Central Government or PSUs, even when they had no connection with DMRC. The very reason for empanelling these persons is to ensure that technical aspects of the dispute are suitably resolved by utilising their expertise when they act as arbitrators. It may also be mentioned herein that the Law Commission had proposed the incorporation of the Schedule which was drawn from the red and orange list of IBA guidelines on conflict of interest in international arbitration with the observation that the same would be treated as the guide “to determine whether circumstances exist which give rise to such justifiable doubts”. Such persons do not get covered by red or orange list of IBA guidelines either.” The Court refers to the fact that the individual had no connection with DMRC, the party in dispute, at two places in the above extract. Hence, the fact that he had previously been employed with government or a corporation controlled by government (but not DMRC which was the disputant) was held not to render the individual ineligible. 118. In G F Toll Road (supra), the arbitration contract between the State government and the contractor allowed for the constitution of a three- member arbitral tribunal “of whom each party shall select one and the third arbitrator shall be appointed under the Rules of Arbitration of the Indian Council of Arbitration.” After disputes arose between the parties, the State government appointed a retired Engineer-in- Chief as their arbitrator.