5 lakhs per month to the learned amicus curiae. 12. Having bestowed our thoughtful consideration on these two s and after taking note of the fact that the entire process in the case in hand might take more than a year, it seems to us that fixation of monthly honorarium may not be desirable. Similarly, we do not want to leave it for the learned Chairperson or members of the HPSC to fix their own honorarium as it is likely to cause embarrassment to them. Considering all these aspects in view, we issue the following directions:- (i) The Chairperson of the HPSC shall be entitled to an honorarium of Rs. 2 lakhs per sitting day, when effective proceedings are held. This will be in addition to travelling, boarding and other miscellaneous expenses as may be incurred in discharging the assigned responsibilities; (ii) The learned Member, who is a former Judge of the High Court shall be entitled to an honorarium of Rs. 1.50 lakhs per sitting day, when effective proceedings are held. This will be in addition to travelling, boarding and other miscellaneous expenses as may be incurred in discharging the assigned responsibilities; (iii) The Member nominated by SEBI shall not be entitled to any remuneration—since he is a full-time officer of SEBI. However, he shall be entitled to travelling, boarding, and other miscellaneous expenses as may be incurred in discharging the assigned responsibilities; (iv) The Member Secretary cum Nodal Officer of the Committee shall be entitled to an honorarium of Rs. 75 thousand per sitting day, when effective proceedings are held. This will be in addition to travelling, boarding and other miscellaneous expenses as may be incurred in discharging the assigned responsibilities; (v) Remuneration of experts like Chartered Accountant, Civil Engineer, Architect, Certified Valuer etc. shall be determined by the HPSC; and (vi) The expenditure towards honorarium, hiring of office, secretarial assistance, as well as for following the prescribed procedure of 744 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports auction, etc., shall be reimbursed from the sale proceeds. The initial expenditure shall be reimbursed from the sale proceeds of the properties which have already been sold, namely, the amount which the SEBI will transfer to the Escrow Account. 13. The States of Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana are hereby directed through their Chief Secretaries and Financial Commissioners (Revenue), to extend full cooperation and provide complete assistance as may be required by the HPSC for the purpose of execution and fulfilment of the assigned task. There must not be any delay on their part to comply with the instructions as may be received from the Chairperson of the HPSC. 14. Similarly, the Directors General of Police of the above-mentioned States are directed to provide assistance, if so required for the purpose of securing and protecting possession of the properties of the Companies. 15. In addition, the HPSC, if so required, may deploy private guards for the protection of the properties of the Companies. 16. SEBI and the Petitioners are also directed to extend full cooperation to the HPSC.