It is a procedural provision, which does not impair any right of the investigating agencies. In this regard reliance is placed on Anant Gopal Sheorey vs. State of Bombay2 and on Rattan Lal Alias Ram Rattan Vs. State of Punjab3. (v) No person has a “vested right in the remedies and the methods of procedure in trials for crime.” A law that draws upon antecedent facts in its prospective operation is not retrospective - it is sometimes referred to as being retroactive. (vi) Section 17A is retroactive in the sense that it would apply in future in relation to all enquires, inquires or investigations being conducted, even though such enquiries, inquires or investigations may be in respect of offences which may have allegedly been committed prior to coming into force of Section 17A. (vii) Section 17A (c) uses the phrase “at the time when the offence was alleged to have been committed”. Meaning thereby it suggest that the provision is intended to apply to offences committed in the past without any limitation. (viii) The question whether a prosecution can be initiated after a substantive offence is deleted is not being raised in the present case - the appellant’s case will be that in such matters, if the law 1 (2020) 2 SCC 338 2 AIR 1958 SC 915 3 AIR 1965 SC 444 [2024] 1 S.C.R. 587 Nara Chandrababu Naidu v. The State of Andhra Pradesh & Anr. does not consider an act to be an offence anymore, initiating a prosecution after the offence is deleted violates Article 21. However, that will arise in the Trial and the issue is not being raised at this stage. (ix) The conclusion of the High Court that the provision cannot be applied in the case of any offence committed prior to 26.07.2018 is erroneous, as in the instant case the alleged offences have taken place till 2019, as for the case of the prosecution. (x) The SOP issued in relation to Section 17A contemplates a step-by-step approval requirement as per the notification issued in this behalf. (xi) The alleged offences in the present case relate to the recommendations made/decisions taken by the appellant in discharge of his official functions or duties. The focus of the provision under Section 17A is the person who has committed the offence and not merely the offence. The private acts of a person, not in his or her capacity as a public servant are not protected by this provision, however, if the offences are based on the allegations in connection with recommendations or decisions taken in discharge of his official functions or duties, section 17A would apply. The allegations levelled against the appellant have a clear nexus to his post of Chief Minister. (xii) Section 17A uses the phrase “any offence”. Hence the requirement of obtaining prior approval under Section 17A is applicable to all offences, and not just offences under the PC Act. In any event, even if the prior approval under Section 17A applies only to allegations of offences under the PC Act, the continuation of investigation under IPC offences cannot be countenanced as the basic material for constituting both kinds of offences is the same.