The RDAC’s functions are advisory in nature. (ii) Genetic Engineering Appraisal Committee (GEAC): GEAC is the apex body to accord approval of activities involving large scale use of hazardous micro-organisms and recombinants in research and industrial production from the environmental perspective. GEAC is also responsible for granting approvals relating to release of GE organisms and products into the environment, including experimental field trials (BRL-II). This Committee functions as a body under the Department of Environment, Forest and Wildlife for approval of activities involving large scale use of hazardous micro-organisms and recombinants in research and industrial production from the environmental angle delineated under Rule 4. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2069 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. Rules 7, 8 and 10 of the 1989 Rules state that no research, development, import, export, manufacture, process, use or sale of any GE technology or products/substances derived therefrom can be attempted without the approval of GEAC. (iii) Review Committee on Genetic Manipulation (RCGM): The RCGM is established under the DBT and is mandated to monitor the safety-related aspects in respect of on-going research projects and activities and bring out manuals and guidelines specifying procedure for regulatory process with respect to activities involving GEO in research, use and applications, including industry, with a view to ensure environmental safety. The RCGM is the authority for BRL-I trials. This Committee includes representatives of the DBT, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), ICAR, CSIR and other experts in their individual capacity. The Committee may appoint sub groups. This Committee also lays down procedures for restricting or prohibiting production, sale, importation and use of such GEOs of cells as are mentioned in the Schedule to the 1989 Rules. (iv) Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBSC): The IBSC is established under the institution engaged in GMO research, to oversee such research and to interface with the RCGM in regulating it. This Committee is constituted by the research institutions handling micro-organism/GEO. The Committee comprises of the Head of the Institution, scientists engaged in DNA work, a medical expert and a nominee of the DBT. The research institutions handling micro-organisms/GEOs are mandated to prepare, with the assistance of the IBSC, an up to date on-site emergency plan according to the manuals/guidelines of the RCGM and make available copies to the DLC/SBCC and GEAC. (v) State Biotechnology Co-Ordination Committee (SBCC): The SBCC plays a major role in monitoring and has powers to inspect, investigate and take punitive action in case of violations of statutory provisions. 2070 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports This Committee is constituted in the States to periodically review the safety and control measures in the various industries/ institutions handling GEOs/hazardous micro-organisms. It has power to inspect, investigate and take punitive action in case of violations of statutory provisions, through the Nodal Department and the State Pollution Control Board/Directorate of Health/Medical Services. The Committee is chaired by the Chief Secretary of the State Government. The Members of the Committee include Secretaries from the Departments of Health, Agriculture, Industries & Commerce, Forests, Public Works/ Chief Engineer, Public Health Engineering, State Microbiologists and Pathologists, Chairman of State Pollution Control Board.