The said enquiry has been conducted and by report dated 16.07.2024, the learned Special Judge (Atrocities), Bhind, M.P. has held that the applicant’s date of birth is 04.10.1984 and consequently on the date of the incident, i.e. on 17.01.2002, he was 17 years 3 months and 13 days old (though wrongly typed as 17.03.2002 and 17 years 5 months and 13 days in the dated 16.07.2024). Therefore, the applicant being a juvenile on the date of the commission of the offence is entitled to the benefit of the provisions of Juvenile Justice (Care and Protocol of Children) Act, 2015 is the submission. Learned counsel for the applicant contended that having regard to the fact that the learned Sessions Judge has conducted a detailed enquiry by examining not only the applicant but also his mother and in-charge Head Teacher Government Primary School, Deori, Police Station Mehgaon, District Bhind, Madhya Pradesh. Finally, it was contended that the said report, which is in favour of the applicant herein, may be considered and the benefit of juvenility be granted to the applicant herein. Consequently, the conviction as against the applicant herein may be set aside. 8. Per contra, learned counsel for the respondent-State at the outset submitted that the plea of juvenility is highly belated inasmuch as the incident took place on 17.01.2002 but the applicant after being convicted by this Court has subsequently filed the application. The long delay in making the claim of juvenility must be accounted for at the first instance before considering other pleas made by the applicant. He also submitted that there is discrepancy in the name of the applicant in the special leave petition. The petition notes the applicant’s name as Brijnandan alias Brajesh Sharma son of Ramji Lal Sharma, whereas in the school documents it is noted as Brijesh Kumar and in the Aadhaar Card it is just Brijesh. Therefore, the miscellaneous application may be dismissed. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 415 State of Madhya Pradesh v. Ramji Lal Sharma & Another 9. By way of reply, learned counsel for the applicant placed reliance on a of this Court in Abuzar Hossain vs. State of West Bengal (2012) 10 SCC 489 to contend that the claim for juvenility may be made at any stage of the criminal proceedings and even after final conviction and sentence being imposed. Therefore, the said argument of the learned counsel for the respondent-State is without any substance. He further submitted that although the name of the applicant as stated by the informant and the prosecution may be slightly at variance with the name of the applicant in the school records as well as in the enquiry that has been conducted on the basis of the documents but the fact remains that the applicant is the son of Ramji Lal and there being no dispute about the same, a slight discrepency in the name would not negate his claim for juvenility. He further submitted that pursuant to the of this Court a comprehensive enquiry has been conducted.