Therefore, state legislation which seeks to regulate higher education, in conflict with the UGC Act, would be beyond the legislative competence of the State legislature.117 94. In Prof. Yashpal & Anr vs. State of Chhattisgarh,118 a three- Judge Bench of this Court adjudicated on the constitutionality of the provisions of a state legislation in Chhattisgarh, which inter alia, granted the state government the power to recognise and establish universities, which offered degrees that were not recognised by the UGC. The state relied on Entry 32 of List II which pertains to the incorporation of universities and Entry 25 of List III, to justify the legislative competence of the state legislature. This Court declared that the provisions of the state legislation which conflict with the provisions of the UGC Act are unconstitutional as the UGC Act was validly enacted by Parliament under Entry 66 of List I. After considering the consistent line of precedent on this question, this Court observed thus: “45. The State Legislature can make an enactment providing for incorporation of universities under Entry 32 of List II and also generally for universities under Entry 25 of List III. The subject “university” as a legislative head must be interpreted in the same manner as it is generally or commonly understood, namely, with proper facilities for teaching of higher level and continuing research activity. An enactment which simply clothes a proposal submitted 116 Long Title, UGC Act. 117 Osmania University Teachers’ Association vs. State of Andhra Pradesh (1987) 4 SCC 671; Dr Preeti Srivastava and another vs. State of M.P. (1999) 7 SCC 120; Prof. Yashpal & Anr vs. State of Chhattisgarh (2005) 5 SCC 420; Annamalai University, Represented by Registrar vs. Secretary to Government, Information and Tourism Department (2009) 4 SCC 590; Kalyani Mathivanan versus K.V. Jeyaraj (2015) 6 SCC 363. 118 [2005] 2 SCR 23 : (2005) 5 SCC 420 420 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports by a sponsoring body or the sponsoring body itself with the juristic personality of a university so as to take advantage of Section 22 of the UGC Act and thereby acquires the right of conferring or granting academic degrees but without having any infrastructure or teaching facility for higher studies or facility for research is not contemplated by either of these entries. Sections 5 and 6 of the impugned enactment are, therefore, wholly ultra vires, being a fraud on the Constitution. 46. […] The impugned Act which enables a proposal on paper only to be notified as a university and thereby conferring the power upon such university under Section 22 of the UGC Act to confer degrees has the effect of completely stultifying the functioning of the University Grants Commission insofar as these universities are concerned. Such incorporation of a university makes it impossible for UGC to perform its duties and responsibilities of ensuring coordination and determination of standards. In the absence of any campus and other infrastructural facilities, UGC cannot take any measures whatsoever to ensure a proper syllabus, level of teaching, standard of examination and evaluation of academic achievement of the students or even to ensure that the students have undergone the course of study for the prescribed period before the degree is awarded to them.” 95.