Considering the aforesaid facts, I am of the opinion that the present appeal deserves to be allowed and the impugned deserves to be quashed and set aside.” 19. In such circumstances referred to above, the plaintiffs are here before this Court with the present appeal. Notice was issued in the Special Leave Petition (Civil) No. 252/2023 filed by the plaintiffs vide the dated 05.01.2023 and parties were directed to maintain status quo in respect of the suit property during the pendency of the petition. The status quo has thereafter been extended by subsequent s of this Court. APPELLATE JURISDICTION UNDER 43 OF THE CPC 20. 43 of the CPC specifies the s against which an appeal lies. Sub-Rule (r) of Rule 1 of the said provides that an appeal 1356 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports would lie against an made under Rules 1, 2, 2A, 4 and 10 of 39 of the CPC respectively. 21. The law in relation to the scope of an appeal against grant or non- grant of interim injunction was laid down by this Court in Wander Ltd. v. Antox India P. Ltd. reported in 1990 Supp SCC 727. Antox brought an action of passing off against Wander with respect to the mark Cal-De-Ce. The trial court declined Antox’s plea for an interim injunction, however, on appeal the High Court reversed the findings of the trial judge. This Court, upon due consideration of the matter, took notice of two egregious errors said to have been committed by the High Court: a. First, as regards the scope and nature of the appeals before it and the limitations on the powers of the appellate court to substitute its own discretion in an appeal preferred against a discretionary ; and b. Secondly, the weakness in ratiocination as to the quality of Antox’s alleged user of the trademark on which the passing off action is founded. 22. With regards to (a), this Court held thus: “In such appeals, the appellate court will not interfere with the exercise of discretion of the court of the first instance and substitute its own discretion, except where the discretion has been shown to have been exercised arbitrarily or capriciously or perversely, or where the court had ignored the settled principles of law regulating grant or refusal of interlocutory injunctions … the appellate court will not reassess the material and seek to reach a conclusion different from the one reached by the court below … If the discretion has been exercised by the trial court reasonably and in a judicial manner the fact that the appellate court would have taken a different view may not justify interference with the trial court’s exercise of discretion.” 23. This Court, while arriving at the above findings, relied on its earlier in Printers (Mysore) v Pothan Joseph reported in (1960) SCC Online SC 62 where it was held thus: [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1357 Ramakant Ambalal Choksi v. Harish Ambalal Choksi & Others “[...] as has been observed by Viscount Simon LC in Charles Osenton & Co v Johnston – the law as to reversal by a court of appeal of an made by a judge below in the exercise of his/her discretion is well established, and any difficulty that arises is due only to the application of well-settled principles in an individual case.” 24.