The assent obtained from the President of the State Act which is inconsistent with the Union Law prevails in that State and overrides the provisions of the Union Law in its application to that State only. However, if the Parliament, in exercising its power under proviso to Art. 254(2) makes a law adding, amending or repealing the union law, predominance secured by the State law by the assent of the President is taken away and the repugnant State law though it became 1500 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports valid by virtue of President’s assent, would be void either directly of by its repugnance with respect to the same matter.” [emphasis supplied] 9.2 The of this Court in Innoventive Industries Ltd. vs. ICICI Bank [2017] 8 SCR 33 examined the case law on Article 254 and summarised the position of law. As regards the case at hand, the following points are relevant: 50. The case law referred to above, therefore, yields the following propositions: XXX vi) Repugnancy may be direct in the sense that there is inconsistency in the actual terms of the competing statutes and there is, therefore, a direct conflict between two or more provisions of the competing statutes. In this sense, the inconsistency must be clear and direct and be of such a nature as to bring the two Acts or parts thereof into direct collision with each other, reaching a situation where it is impossible to obey the one without disobeying the other. This happens when two enactments produce different legal results when applied to the same facts. XXX viii) A conflict may arise when Parliamentary law and State law seek to exercise their powers over the same subject matter. This need not be in the form of a direct conflict, where one says “do” and the other says “don’t”. Laws under this head are repugnant even if the rule of conduct prescribed by both laws is identical. The test that has been applied in such cases is based on the principle on which the rule of implied repeal rests, namely, that if the subject matter of the State legislation or part thereof is identical with that of the Parliamentary legislation, so that they cannot both stand together, then the State legislation will be said to be repugnant to the Parliamentary legislation. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1501 Naeem Bano Alias Gaindo v. Mohammad Rahees & Anr. However, if the State legislation or part thereof deals not with the matters which formed the subject matter of Parliamentary legislation but with other and distinct matters though of a cognate and allied nature, there is no repugnancy. ix) Repugnant legislation by the State is void only to the extent of the repugnancy. In other words, only that portion of the State’s statute which is found to be repugnant is to be declared void. x) The only exception to the above is when it is found that a State legislation is repugnant to Parliamentary legislation or an existing law if the case falls within Article 254(2), and Presidential assent is received for State legislation, in which case State legislation prevails over Parliamentary legislation or an existing law within that State.