[2024] 1 S.C.R. 87 : 2024 INSC 13 Case Details Perumal Raja @ Perumal v. State, Rep. by Inspector of Police (Special Leave Petition (Criminal) No. 863 of 2019) 03 January 2024 [Sanjiv Khanna* and S. V. N. Bhatti, JJ.] Issue for Consideration Accused not formally arrested at the time of giving information if can be deemed to be in the ‘custody’ of the police, admissibility of evidence in terms of s.27, Evidence Act, 1872. Conviction and sentence of the appellant u/ss.302 and 201, Penal Code, 1860, if justified. Headnotes Evidence Act, 1872 – s.27 – “in the custody of a police officer” – Interpretation – Case based on circumstantial evidence – Appellant was taken into custody during the course of investigation for the murder of his Uncle – However, he made a disclosure statement – Appellant along with other co-accused had murdered his uncle’s son-deceased (appellant’s cousin) who was missing for months and his body was first dumped in the sump tank and later retrieved, cut into two parts, put in sack bags, and thrown in the river/canal – Appellant subsequently arrested in the present case – On the basis of the disclosure statement, parts of the dead body and sack bags were recovered – Other articles were also recovered – Appellant’s conviction and sentence u/ss.302 and 201, Penal Code, 1860, challenged: Held: The pre-requisite of police custody, within the meaning of s.27, ought to be read pragmatically and not formalistically or euphemistically – “custody” u/s.27 does not mean formal custody – It includes any kind of restriction, restraint or even surveillance by the police– Even if the accused was not formally arrested at the time of giving information, the accused ought to be deemed, for all practical purposes, in the custody of the police – Words “person accused of an offence” and “in the custody of a police * Author 88 [2024] 1 S.C.R. DIGITAL SUPREME COURT REPORTS officer” in s.27 are separated by a comma and thus, have to be read distinctively – The wide and pragmatic interpretation of the term “police custody” is supported by the fact that if a narrow or technical view is taken, it will be very easy for the police to delay the time of filing the FIR and arrest, and thereby evade the contours of ss.25 to 27 – A person giving word of mouth information to police, which may be used as evidence against him, may be deemed to have submitted himself to the “custody” of the police officer – In the present case, the disclosure statement was made by the appellant when he was detained in another case relating to the murder of his Uncle– He was subsequently arrested in the present case – Body parts of the deceased were recovered on the pointing out of appellant in his disclosure statement – Deceased had been missing for months and was untraceable – His whereabouts were unknown– The perpetrator(s) were also unknown – It is only consequent to the disclosure statement by the appellant that the police came to know that the Deceased had been murdered – The homicidal death of Deceased, the disclosure statement and the consequent recoveries of the motorcycle and other belongings at the behest of the appellant proved beyond doubt – These facts, in the absence of any other material to doubt them, establish that the appellant committed murder of Deceased – The presence of motive, inter se family property disputes, reinforces the said conclusion – Conviction of the appellant upheld.