On principles of consistency and public interest j) The constitutional tenets of consistency, the rule of law, and the principle of “actus curiae neminem gravabit” embody the fundamental and foundational principles of justice. k) The Government and Public Sector Undertakings, acting in the public interest and with good faith, aim to avoid burdening the court dockets unnecessarily. l) However, the appeals at hand present a unique situation not hitherto dealt with by any judicial pronouncement of this Court and bearing in mind the gravamen of the appellants’ complaint and the extent of public interest at stake, the Court may not take a view which would throw asunder the developmental works undertaken by the appellants on the acquired lands. 17. Counsel for the landowners and the affected parties urged this Court to dismiss the appeals at the outset, being devoid of merits. The following submissions were advanced by them: On merger: a) In cases where this Court had previously granted leave and dismissed the appeal, the doctrine of merger would apply and the and of the High Court would stand merged into the and of this Court. The and of the High Court cannot thereafter be challenged by any party, as it has ceased to exist. The doctrine applies regardless of whether the appeal has been dismissed through a speaking or a non-speaking . 10 [2017] 4 SCR 232 : (2017) 6 SCC 751 11 [2019] 13 SCR 695 : (2019) 10 SCC 229 1180 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports b) Additionally, whether there has been a discussion of facts in the (s) of this Court will be immaterial as it has resulted in a merger with the and of the High Court where the facts were discussed. On res judicata c) The principles of res judicata and analogous principles embodied in section 11, CPC and its Explanations clearly apply to the present appeals. Even an erroneous decision, whether on facts or law, would bind the parties. The acquiring authorities (GNCTD, LAP, L&B Department), and the beneficiary (DDA) share a common interest in the acquisition of land for public purpose. When either of the parties litigates, one is deemed to litigate on behalf of all interested parties. Thus, the dismissal of a civil appeal preferred by one of the authorities, would act as res judicata against the other authority. d) The appellants were granted one-year period to commence fresh acquisition proceedings. With the expiry of this timeframe, the State’s right has been closed for all intents and purposes. It cannot now contest this Court’s and assert a reversal of the lapse of acquisition proceedings. On subsequent purchasers contesting acquisition proceedings: e) None of the appeals has alleged any form of fraud practised by the affected parties. Legal principles dictate that when fraud is asserted, it must be expressly pleaded in accordance with the provisions of VI Rules 2 & 4, CPC. The law does not permit unsubstantiated assertions to be made solely through oral arguments. The appellants have not succeeded in establishing that a subsequent sale transaction occurred with prior knowledge after the Notification under section 4(1) of the 1894 Act.