(ii) The appellant was remanded to police custody on 4th October, 2023 whereas the in the case of Pankaj Bansal (supra) was uploaded on the website of this Court in the late hours of 4th October, 2023 and hence, the arresting officer could not be expected to ensure compliance of the directions given in the said . He thus urged that the alleged inaction of the Investigating Officer in furnishing the grounds of arrest in writing to the appellant cannot be called into question as the in Pankaj Bansal (supra) was uploaded and brought in public domain after the remand had been passed. (iii) Without prejudice to the above, learned ASG urged that as per the appellant’s version set out in the pleadings filed before the High Court of Delhi, he was actually remanded to the police custody after 7:00 a.m. With reference to these pleadings, Shri Raju contended that the appellant cannot be heard to urge that he was remanded to the police custody in an illegal manner and without the grounds of arrest having been conveyed to him in writing. (iv) Learned ASG referred to the provisions contained in Articles 22(1) and 22(5) of the Constitution of India and urged that 680 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports there is no such mandate in either of the provisions that the grounds of arrest or detention should be conveyed in writing to the accused or the detenue, as the case may be. (v) He urged that the right conferred upon the appellant by Article 22(1) of the Constitution of India to consult and to be defended by a legal practitioner was complied with in letter and spirit because the relative of the appellant, namely, Shri Rishabh Bailey, was informed before producing the appellant before the learned Remand Judge. Admittedly, Shri Rishabh Bailey had intimated the appellant’s Advocate, Shri Arshdeep Khurana regarding the proposed proceedings of police custody remand of the appellant. (vi) He urged that the Advocate transmitted a written objection against the prayer for police custody remand over WhatsApp through the Head Constable Rajendra Singh and the learned Remand Judge has taken note of the said objection opposing remand in the remand dated 4th October, 2023 and thus it would be futile to argue that the granting remand is illegal in any manner. (vii) Learned ASG further contended that now the investigation has been completed and charge sheet has also already been filed and, thus, the illegality/irregularity, if any, in the arrest of the appellant and the grant of initial police custody remand stands cured and hence, the appellant cannot claim to be prejudiced by the same. (viii) He vehemently urged that there are significant differences in the language employed in Section 19 of the PMLA and Section 43A and 43B of the UAPA and, thus, the law as laid down by this Court in Pankaj Bansal (supra) does not come to the aid of the appellant in laying challenge to the remand . (ix) Learned ASG further urged that there is a presumption regarding the correctness of acts performed in discharge of judicial functions and hence, the noting recorded in the remand dated 4th October, 2023 that the Advocate for the appellant had been heard on the remand application and that the grounds of arrest had been conveyed to the appellant cannot be questioned or doubted.