In this case, the SRA was faced with a situation where the slum-dwellers were suffering for more than 25 years and, therefore the action taken by SRA to remove Susme for the unjustified delay was totally justified.” 9. Case after case, the Bombay High Court has been ruling that, a) the developer is duty-bound to complete the project within the stipulated time and that b) the Slum Rehabilitation Authority (SRA) has not merely the power but a broader duty to ensure that the developer completes the project within time. We will refer to those s, not so much to certify that the issue is no more res-integra, but to emphasise that the rulings have not had the desired impact, much less compliance. The reason is that, neither the developer nor the authority is asked to face the consequences of their derelictions. That Section 13(2) is a power coupled with duty is clear from the s of this Court and many other s of the High Courts, however experience tells us that this recognition of a statutory duty in itself is not sufficient. Until and unless duty is identified with accountability, judicial review is ineffective. 10. In Galaxy Enterprises v. State of Maharashtra,6 the Bombay High Court observed: “53. The record reveals that what M/s Saral could do in eight years of its appointment, was to get the Annexure II, namely the list of the 73 eligible occupants certified from the MHADA. It was, thus, expected from the petitioner that the revalidation of Annexure II, which was possibly not a complex formality be undertaken at the earliest. However this certainly did not happen and citing various reasons, which cannot be believed to be not attributable 6 2019 SCC OnLine Bom 897. 1452 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports to the petitioner, ultimately, the petitioner could not get the Annexure II certified only on 23 December 2013, which is after about eight years of the petitioner’s appointment. This fact itself raises a serious doubt as to the real intentions of the petitioner to undertake the scheme. The petitioner could not have simply blamed the authorities for the delay, as there is complete lack of concrete and/or any real steps which were to be taken by the petitioner to effectively seek different approvals, once the society had put the petitioner in the driver’s seat, in complete control of the project as rightly commented, in the impugned s. Thus, the case of the petitioner, that from time to time steps were taken to implement the slum scheme as entrusted to it be the society cannot be accepted. These are the contentions of the petitioner, merely pointing out some movement of the files with the authorities. This was certainly not sufficient and what was required and expected by the petitioner was to take real effective steps to progress the slum redevelopment. The petitioner was expected to expeditiously obtain an Annexure II, as certified by the MHADA, thereafter obtain a LOI and then obtain a Commencement Certificate to start with the constructions and before that make a provision for temporary alternate accommodation for the slum dwellers to reside till completion of the scheme.