Vaibhav Motors (the dealer), jointly and severally liable for the compensation. 22. Against the award, the appellant (i.e., the dealer) filed an appeal but no appeal was preferred by M/s. Hindustan Motors even though a categorical finding was returned by the Tribunal that no evidence of sale of the vehicle to the dealer was produced by M/s Hindustan Motors. In view thereof, it does not lie in the mouth of M/s. Hindustan Motors to canvass that it was not the owner of the vehicle. We have, therefore, to consider whether M/s. Vaibhav Motors (the appellant), being in constructive possession of the vehicle as a dealer, could be held liable, particularly when M/s. Hindustan Motors was its owner and, at the time of accident, the vehicle was being driven by an employee of M/s Hindustan Motors. 23. As per the finding of the Tribunal, which remained undisturbed, the aforesaid two employees of M/s. Hindustan Motors took the vehicle from M/s Vaibhav Motors (the appellant) for a test drive. None of the employees of the dealer was present in the vehicle. Rather, at 30 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the time of accident, the driver and the co-passenger of that vehicle were employees of M/s. Hindustan Motors. There is nothing on record to suggest that the dealer had the authority to deny those two persons permission to take the vehicle for a test drive. More so, when they were representatives of the owner of the vehicle. In these circumstances, we can safely conclude that at the time of accident the vehicle was not only under the ownership of M/s. Hindustan Motors but also under its control and command through its employees. Therefore, in our view, the appellant, being just a dealer of M/s Hindustan Motors, was not liable for compensation as an owner of the vehicle. 24. The issue no. (i) is decided in the aforesaid terms. Issue No. (ii) 25. Now, we shall consider whether by virtue of clauses 3 (b) and 4 of the Dealership Agreement, M/s Hindustan Motors was absolved of its tortious liability, that is, whether the tortious liability shifted to the dealer (i.e., the appellant). 26. Clauses 3 (b) and 4 of the Dealership Agreement have been extracted in paragraph 14 of the of the High Court. They read as under: “3 (b) After the motor vehicles are dispatched/ delivered the Company’s liability in respect of any defect in the motor vehicle will be limited to the Company’s obligations under the warranty clause and the Company will have no other liability and all liabilities other than the one under warranty as aforesaid shall be to the account of the Dealer. 4. After the motor vehicles are delivered, the Company’s liability in respect of any defect in the motor vehicle will be limited to the Company’s obligation under the warranty clause and the Company will have no other liability. All liabilities other than the one under warranty as aforesaid shall be to the account of the Dealer.” 27.