565 Subodh Kumar Singh Rathour v. The Chief Executive Officer & Ors. contractual relations is enjoined with a duty or an obligation to the public, such actions could be said to bear the insignia of a public element. The relevant observation reads as under: - “27. In the sphere of contractual relations the State, its instrumentality, public authorities or those whose acts bear insignia of public element, action to public duty or obligation are enjoined to act in a manner i.e. fair, just and equitable, after taking objectively all the relevant options into consideration and in a manner that is reasonable, relevant and germane to effectuate the purpose for public good and in general public interest and it must not take any irrelevant or irrational factors into consideration or appear arbitrary in its decision. Duty to act fairly is part of fair procedure envisaged under Articles 14 and 21. Every activity of the public authority or those under public duty or obligation must be informed by reason and guided by the public interest. xxx xxx xxx 29. [...] The arms of the High Court are not shackled with technical rules or procedure. The actions of the State, its instrumentality, any public authority or person whose actions bear insignia of public law element or public character are amenable to judicial review and the validity of such an action would be tested on the anvil of Article 14. While exercising the power under Article 226 the Court would be circumspect to adjudicate the disputes arising out of the contract depending on the facts and circumstances in a given case. The distinction between the public law remedy and private law field cannot be demarcated with precision. Each case has to be examined on its own facts and circumstances to find out the nature of the activity or scope and nature of the controversy. The distinction between public law and private law remedy is now narrowed down. [...]” (Emphasis supplied) 48. In another decision of this Court in Shrilekha Vidyarthi (Kumari) v. State of U.P. reported in (1991) 1 SCC 212 it was held that every 566 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports action of the State that has some degree of impact on the public interest, can be challenged under writ jurisdiction to the extent that they are arbitrary, unfair or unreasonable, irrespective of the fact that the dispute falls within the domain of contractual obligations. It was further held, that it is the nature of a government body’s personality which characterizes the action as having a public law element, and not the field of law where such action is taken. The relevant observation reads as under: - “22. There is an obvious difference in the contracts between private parties and contracts to which the State is a party. Private parties are concerned only with their personal interest whereas the State while exercising its powers and discharging its functions, acts indubitably, as is expected of it, for public good and in public interest.