They read as under: “The intention is that the State Corporations will confine their activities to financing medium and small scale industrial and will, as far as possible, consider only such cases as are outside the scope of the Industrial Finance Corporation. The State Governments also consider that the State Corporations should be established under a special Statute in to make it possible to incorporate in the Constitution necessary provisions in regard to majority control by Government, guaranteed by the State Government in regard to the repayment of principal, and payment of a minimum rate of dividend on the shares, restriction on distribution of profits and special powers for the enforcement of its claims and recovery of dues. 246 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports The main features of the Bill are as follows:- (vii) The Corporation will be authorised to make long- term loans to industrial concerns and to guarantee loans raised by industrial concerns which are repayable within a period of not exceeding 25 years. The Corporation will be further authorised to underwrite the issue of stocks, shares, bonds or debentures by industrial concerns, subject to the provision that the Corporation will be required to dispose of any shares, etc., acquired by it in fulfilment of its underwriting liability within a period of 7 years. (ix) The Corporation will have special privileges in the matter of enforcement of its claims against borrowers” (emphasis supplied) Section 32-G of the State Financial Corporations Act reads as under:- “32G. Recovery of amounts due to the Financial Corporation as an arrear of land revenue.—Where any amount is due to the Financial Corporation in respect of any accommodation granted by it to any industrial concern, the Financial Corporation or any person authorised by it in writing in this behalf, may, without prejudice to any other mode of recovery, make an application to the State Government for the recovery of the amount due to it, and if the State Government or such authority, as that Government may specify in this behalf, is satisfied, after following such procedure as may be prescribed, that any amount is so due, it may issue a certificate for that amount to the Collector, and the Collector shall proceed to recover that amount in the same manner as an arrear of land revenue.” (emphasis supplied) 16. This apart, for the purposes of the present case, the relevant provisions of the Recovery of Dues Act, being Section 2(c) and Section 3 of the Recovery of Dues Act, are for the sake of convenience set out hereinbelow: “2. Definitions In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, - [2024] 6 S.C.R. 247 K.P. Khemka & Anr. v. Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited & Ors. (c) “defaulter” means a person who either as principal or as surety, is a party – (i) to any agreement relating to a loan, advance or grant given under that agreement or relating to credit in respect of, or relating to hire-purchase of, goods sold by the State Government or the Corporation, by way of financial assistance; and such person makes any default in repayment of the loan or advance or any instalment thereof or, having become liable under the conditions of the grant to refund the grant or any portion thereof, makes any default in the refund of such grant or portion or any instalment thereof or otherwise fails to comply with the terms of the agreement; 3.