The CMPO is mandated to carry out the duties stipulated in Clause (3) of Section 16 of PCMA. These duties are as follows: (i) to prevent solemnisation of child marriages by taking such action as he may deem fit; 104 Section 13(4), PCMA. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1563 Society for Enlightenment and Voluntary Action & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. (ii) to collect evidence for the effective prosecution of persons contravening the provisions of the Act; (iii) to advise either individual cases or counsel the residents of the locality generally not to indulge in promoting, helping, aiding or allowing the solemnisation of child marriages; (iv) to create awareness of the evil which results from child marriages; (v) to sensitise the community on the issue of child marriages; (vi) to furnish such periodical returns and statistics as the State Government may direct; and (vii) to discharge such other functions and duties as may be assigned to him by the State Government. 71. The CMPO may move the court for an of (i) maintenance and residence of the child bride under Section 4; (ii) custody of a child born from a child marriage under Section 5;and (iii) injunction against the solemnization of marriage or against the violation of an injunction under Section 13.105 Additionally, the CMPO may move the court along with a child who has been married off for a decree of nullity under Section 3 of PCMA.106 72. The legislative intent behind the appointment of the CMPOs is to designate an officer to take tailored action against child marriage in each district. The prevention of child marriage ensures that communities can progress whereas the prosecutorial functions of the CMPO ensure effective deterrence. 73. The Petitioner has submitted that the practice widely prevalent is to appoint an officer with multifarious duties as the CMPO. The task of the CMPO is doled out as an additional task to officers who are already burdened with their primary duties. This leads to ineffectiveness and allows many child marriages to slip through the cracks. 74. The data provided by the Union in its additional affidavit sheds light on the prevalence of officers holding additional charges as CMPOs at the district level. In states like Haryana and Chhattisgarh, 105 Section 16(5), PCMA. 106 Section 16(5), PCMA. 1564 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports officials such as Sub-Divisional Magistrates107 and District Social Welfare Officers are appointed as CMPOs but may also hold other responsibilities. 75. As argued by the Petitioner, the appointment of CMPOs who are inundated with other multifarious duties impedes the effectiveness of child marriage prevention measures. Officers with multiple duties might struggle to dedicate sufficient time and resources to their role as CMPOs, potentially hindering the effectiveness of child marriage prevention efforts. The appointment of CMPOs is not a mere statutory formality as part of an ornate virtue signalling. These officers are in charge of prosecution of child marriages, counselling of stakeholders and spreading awareness and sensitization in the community. An effective CMPO must make efforts to find their roots in the community, engage with communities and organisations in the area and carry out the painstaking, and sometimes thankless, task of reporting specific factors affecting child marriages in the district.