However, where the situation is such that the only conclusion which could be arrived at from a comprehensive appraisal of evidence, shows that there has been a grave miscarriage of justice, then, notwithstanding such concurrent view, this Court would not restrict itself to adopt an oppugnant view. [Vide State of Uttar Pradesh v. Dan Singh10] iv) To adjudge whether the concurrent findings of acquittal are ‘perverse’ it is to be seen whether there has been failure of justice. This Court in Babu v. State of Kerala11 clarified the ambit of the term ‘perversity’ as “if the findings have been arrived at by ignoring or excluding relevant material or by taking into consideration irrelevant/admissible material. The finding may also be said to be perverse if it is ‘against the weight of evidence’, or if the finding so outrageously defies logic as to suffer from the vice of irrationality.” v) In situations of concurrent findings favoring accused, interference is required where the trial court adopted an incorrect approach in framing of an issue of fact and the appellate court whilst affirming the view of the trial court, lacked in appreciating the evidence produced by the accused in rebutting a legal presumption. [Vide Rajesh Jain v. Ajay Singh12] vi) Furthermore, such interference is necessitated to safeguard interests of justice when the acquittal is based on some irrelevant grounds or fallacies in re-appreciation of any fundamental evidentiary material or a manifest error of law or in cases of non-adherence to the principles of natural justice or the decision is manifestly unjust or where an acquittal which is fundamentally based on an exaggerated adherence to the principle of granting benefit of doubt to the accused, is liable to be set aside. Say in 10 [1997] 1 SCR 764 : (1997) 3 SCC 747 11 [2010] 9 SCR 1039 : (2010) 9 SCC 189 12 [2023] 13 SCR 788 : (2023) 10 SCC 148 [2024] 8 S.C.R. 139 Sri Dattatraya v. Sharanappa cases where the court severed the connection between accused and criminality committed by him upon a cursory examination of evidences. [Vide State of Punjab v. Gurpreet Singh and Others13 and Rajesh Prasad v. State of Bihar14] 32. Upon perusal of the aforementioned principles and applying them to the facts and circumstances of the present matter, it is evident that there is no perversity and lack of evidence in the case of the respondent-accused. The concurrent findings have backing of detailed appraisal of evidences and facts, therefore, do not warrant interference in light of above enlisted principles. In a similar set of facts as in the present case, involving criminal liability arising out of dishonour of cheque, this Court in M/s Rajco Steel Enterprises v. Kavita Saraff and Another15 dejected from reversing the concurrent findings of acquittal of accused therein and underscored the principle of non-interference, unless such findings are perverse or bereft of evidentiary corroboration or lacks question of law. 33. In furtherance of the aforesaid principles and the reasons ascribed thereof, the present challenge to the aforesaid impugned dated 03.03.2023 by the High Court of Karnataka at Kalaburagi is bereft of any merits and does not call for any interference of this court.