This Court in Azeez Basha (supra) having held,upon an exhaustive analysis of the facts and circumstances presented before it, that AMU was brought into existence by the Central Legislature by virtue of the AMU Act, I see no infirmity warranting the view taken therein to be overruled. And, this being the settled position for more than half-a- century by now, it is not worthwhile to interfere with the same at this distance of time notwithstanding the attempts to have it removed. 1896 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports Administration of amu 89. The other element enumerated under Article 30(1) is ‘administer’. Administration, like establishment, is a question of fact. The minority community needs to prove, through material evidence, the fact of administration by the community. 90. Before delving into the factual scenario, it is necessary to grasp what are the elements of administration. To fully appreciate what administration entails, it would be opportune to go through treatises and the previous articulations of this Court on the topic. 91. The eleventh edition of Black’s Law Dictionary defines the term “administration” as: administration, n. (14c) 1. The management or performance of the executive duties of a government, institution, or business; collectively, all the actions that are involved in managing the work of an organization. 2. In public law, the practical management and direction of the executive department and its agencies….” (emphasis supplied) 92. This Court in Ahmedabad St. Xavier’s College Society vs. State of Gujarat45 has provided an unambiguous rubric to understand what the “right to administer” entails: “19. The entire controversy centres round the extent of the right of the religious and linguistic minorities to administer their educational institutions. The right to administer is said to consist of four principal matters. First is the right to choose its managing or governing body. It is said that the founders of the minority institution have faith and confidence in their own committee or body consisting of persons elected by them. Second is the right to choose its teachers. It is said that minority institutions want teachers to have compatibility with the ideals, aims and aspirations of the institution. Third is the right not to be compelled to refuse admission to students. In other words, the minority institutions want to have the right to admit students of their 45 (1974) 1 SCC 717 [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1897 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. choice subject to reasonable regulations about academic qualifications. Fourth is the right to use its properties and assets for the benefit of its own institution.” (emphasis supplied) 93. The articulation of ‘right to administer’ provided by this Court in the above mentioned decision is supplemented by the decision in TMA Pai Foundation (supra),where this Court outlined what rights constitute the right to administer and establish: “50. The right to establish and administer broadly comprises the following rights: (a) to admit students; (b) to set up a reasonable fee structure; (c) to constitute a governing body; (d) to appoint staff (teaching and non-teaching); and (e) to take action if there is dereliction of duty on the part of any employees.” 94.