7. Needless to say, that answers to the above questions would decide the fate of this appeal. For answering the first question, various factors have to be looked into. Necessarily the questions as to whether the offender is accused of commission of offence(s) involving moral turpitude or against the society or whether they are purely of private nature have to be taken note of. As some of the offence(s) alleged fall under special statute relating children, the very object and purpose of the said enactment may also require consideration in the above regard. The learned amicus curiae relied on various decisions of this Court to drive home the point that when criminal proceedings are abruptly terminated based on compromise between the offender and the victim or on behalf of the victim by the parent(s), despite the alleged offence being one having impact on the society and of heinous and serious in nature and still, the State did not take up the matter further in accordance with law, ignoring the fact that such quashment of the proceedings was done disregarding the opposition of the public prosecutor, a public spirited person should be having the locus standi to challenge such an in the interest [2024] 11 S.C.R. 649 Ramji Lal Bairwa & Anr. v. State of Rajasthan & Ors. of justice. It is furthermore submitted that in such circumstances if a public-spirited person is non-suited on the ground of locus standi it would only help the offender to escape even without facing the trial. Such situations may result in recurrence of commission of such offences detrimental to the interests of the society. To buttress the point that a spirited citizen has the locus standi to petition under Article 136 of the Constitution of India to ensure that justice is done, the learned amicus curiae relied on the decisions of this Court in P.S.R. Sadhanantham v. Arunachalam,2 Sheonandan Paswan v. State of Bihar and Ors.,3 Amanullah and Anr. v. State of Bihar4 and V.S Achuthanandan v. R. Balakrishna Pillai.5 The learned counsel for the intervenor also endorsed the said submissions and contentions made by the learned amicus curiae on the question of locus standi. 8. Per contra, the learned counsel appearing for the third respondent, who is the accused on whose instance the subject FIR was quashed, contended that it is impermissible for a third party/strangers to interfere in criminal proceedings. In support of the said contention, he relied on various decisions such as Rajiv Ranjan Singh ‘Lalan’ v. Union of India,6 Simranjit Singh Mann v. Union of India7 and Bar Council of Maharashtra v. M.V. Dabholkar.8 9. It is disheartening to note that with tooth and nail, the learned counsel appearing for the fourth respondent, the father of the victim, challenged the appellants’ locus standi to maintain the Special Leave Petition against the impugned whereunder the FIR registered against the third respondent, the accused was quashed based on the compromise between third and the fourth respondents. It is contended that since none of the fundamental rights under part III of the appellants are infringed, they could not maintain a petition under Article 32 of the Constitution of India and merely because the petition filed by them under Article 32 was converted to one 2 [1980] 2 SCR 873 : (1980) 3 SCC 141 3 [1987] 1 SCR 702 : (1987) 1 SCC 288 4 [2016] 2 SCR 1027 : (2016) 6 SCC 699 5 [2011] 2 SCR 762 : (2011) 3 SCC 317 6 [2006] Supp.