It was also clarified that what is not subsumed within “the fundamental policy of Indian law”, namely, the contravention of a statute not linked to ‘public policy’ or ‘public interest’, cannot be brought in by the backdoor when it comes to setting aside an award on the ground of patent illegality.52 Further, it was observed, reappreciation of evidence is not permissible under this category of challenge to an arbitral award.53 50 See also three-Judge Bench decision of this Court in State of Chhattisgarh v. SAL Udyog (P) Ltd. (2022) 2 SCC 275 51 Section 28. -- Rules applicable to substance of dispute. — (1) Where the place of arbitration is situated in India,-- (a) In an arbitration other than an international commercial arbitration, the arbitral tribunal shall decide the dispute submitted to arbitration in accordance with the substantive law for the time being in force in India ******* (2) ***** (3) while deciding and making an award, the arbitral tribunal shall, in all cases, take into account the terms of the contract and trade usages applicable to the transaction. (As substituted by Act 3 of 2016 w.e.f 23.10.2015) Prior to substitution by Act 3 of 2016, sub-section (3) of Section 28 read as under: “(3) In all cases, the arbitral tribunal shall decide in accordance with the terms of the contract and shall take into account the usages of the trade applicable to the transaction. 52 See paragraph 37 of Ssyangyong (supra) 53 See paragraph 38 of Ssyangyong (supra) 544 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Perversity as a ground of challenge 63. Perversity as a ground for setting aside an arbitral award was recognized in Western Geco (supra). Therein it was observed that an arbitral decision must not be perverse or so irrational that no reasonable person would have arrived at the same. It was observed that if an award is perverse, it would be against the public policy of India. 64. In Associate Builders (supra) certain tests were laid down to determine whether a decision of an arbitral tribunal could be considered perverse. In this context, it was observed that where: (i) a finding is based on no evidence; or (ii) an arbitral tribunal takes into account something irrelevant to the decision which it arrives at; or (iii) ignores vital evidence in arriving at its decision, such decision would necessarily be perverse. However, by way of a note of caution, it was observed that when a court applies these tests it does not act as a court of appeal and, consequently, errors of fact cannot be corrected. Though, a possible view by the arbitrator on facts has necessarily to pass muster as the arbitrator is the ultimate master of the quantity and quality of evidence to be relied upon. It was also observed that an award based on little evidence or on evidence which does not measure up in quality to a trained legal mind would not be held to be invalid on that score. 65. In Ssangyong (supra), which dealt with the legal position post 2015 amendment in Section 34 of the 1996 Act, it was observed that a decision which is perverse, while no longer being a ground for challenge under “public policy of India”, would certainly amount to a patent illegality appearing on the face of the award.