17. Punishment for raising funds for terrorist act.- Whoever, in India or in a foreign country, directly or indirectly, raises or provides funds or collects funds, whether from a legitimate or illegitimate source, from any person or persons or attempts to provide to, or raises or collects funds for any person or persons, knowing that such funds are likely to be used, in full or in part by such person or persons or by a terrorist 1770 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports organisation or by a terrorist gang or by an individual terrorist to commit a terrorist act, notwithstanding whether such funds were actually used or not for commission of such act, shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than five years but which may extend to imprisonment for life, and shall also be liable to fine. Explanation.—For the purpose of this section,— (a) participating, organising or directing in any of the acts stated therein shall constitute an offence; (b) raising funds shall include raising or collecting or providing funds through production or smuggling or circulation of high-quality counterfeit Indian currency; and (c) raising or collecting or providing funds, in any manner for the benefit of, or, to an individual terrorist, terrorist gang or terrorist organisation for the purpose not specifically covered under section 15 shall also be construed as an offence. 18. Punishment for conspiracy, etc.—Whoever conspires or attempts to commit, or advocates, abets, advises or incites, directs or knowingly facilitates the commission of, a terrorist act or any act preparatory to the commission of a terrorist act, shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than five years but which may extend to imprisonment for life, and shall also be liable to fine.” Analysis: 7. Thus, if the provisions of Sections 17 and 18 of the UAPA are attracted in a given case being Scheduled Offences under the NIA Act, the Central Government, if it is of the opinion that such Offences have been committed which are required to be investigated under the Act, may under sub-section (5) of Section 6 of the said Act, in exercise of its suo motu power direct the NIA to investigate the Scheduled Offences. But while investigating such Scheduled Offences, the NIA can also investigate any other offence which the accused is alleged [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1771 Ankush Vipan Kapoor v. National Investigation Agency to have committed provided the other offence is connected with a Scheduled Offence. Applying the aforesaid provision to the facts of the present case, it is held that while investigating the offences under Sections 17 and 18 of UAPA (Scheduled Offences) by virtue of sub-section (5) of Section 6, under Section 8 any other offence such as (an offence under the NDPS Act connected with the Scheduled Offences (Sections 17 and 18 of the UAPA in the instant case) could also be investigated. But, such other offence must have a connection with the Scheduled Offence. 7.1 Furthermore, in our view, the investigation could also be of a person accused of an offence which has a connection with a Scheduled Offence which is being investigated on the basis of Section 8 of the NIA Act.