4. Section 13(1)(a) also prescribes the factors which AERA must take into consideration to “determine” tariff. The following are the seven factors provided by the provision: a. The capital expenditure incurred and timely investment in improvement of airport facilities; b. The service provided, its quality and other relevant factors; c. The cost of improving efficiency; d. Economic and viable operation of major airports; e. Revenue received from services other than aeronautical services; f. The concession offered by the Central Government in any agreement or memorandum of understanding or otherwise; and g. Any other factor which may be relevant for the purposes of this Act. The proviso to Section 13(1)(a) provides that different tariff structures may be determined for different airports, having regard to all or any of the considerations stipulated in the provision. 5. Section 13(2) provides that AERA must determine the tariff once in five years and may amend the tariff at any time within the five years in public interest.9 Section 13 (1A) provides that notwithstanding anything in Clauses (1) and (2) of Section 13, AERA will not determine the tariff or the structure of tariff or the development fees if it is incorporated in the bidding document which is the basis for award of operatorship.10 However, the proviso to Section 13(1A) requires AERA to be “consulted” in advance regarding the tariff or 9 13(2): “The Authority shall determine the tariff once in every five years and may if so considered appropriate and in public interest, amend, from time to time during the said period of five years, the tariff so determined.” 10 AERA Act; Section 13(1A) [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1413 Airports Economic Regulatory Authority of India v. Delhi International Airport Ltd. & Ors. development fee which is proposed to be included in the bidding document and such fee is required to be notified in the Official Gazette.11 Section 13(3) provides that AERA is required to act in the interest of the sovereignty and integrity of India, the security of the State, friendly relations with foreign states, public , decency or morality while discharging its functions.12 Section 13(4) provides that AERA while discharging its functions must ensure transparency by, inter alia, (a) holding due consultations with all stake-holders with the airport; (b) allowing all stake-holders to make submissions before it; and (c) making all decisions of the Authority fully documented and explained. 6. Section 2(a) defines “aeronautical service” as the service provided for the following: a. For navigation, surveillance and supportive communication for air traffic management; b. For the landing, housing or parking of an aircraft or any other ground facility offered in connection with aircraft operations at an airport; c. For ground safety services at an airport; d. For ground handling services relating to aircraft, passengers and cargo at an airport; e. For the cargo facility at an airport; f. For supplying fuel to the aircraft at an airport; and g. For stake holder at an airport. 7. Section 14 confers AERA with the power to call for an information and conduct investigation regarding the activities of a service provider.