The facts of the said case were that the insured therein had taken a policy of life insurance from Max New York Life Insurance Co. Ltd. on 10.07.2009 for a sum of Rs. 11 lakhs. Barely two months thereafter, on 16.09.2009, the insured submitted a proposal for a life insurance term plan policy of Reliance Life Insurance Co Ltd for an insurance cover of Rs. 10 lakhs. One of the questions that the proposer was required to answer in the proposal form was whether he was currently insured or had previously applied for life insurance cover, critical illness cover or accident benefit cover. This query was answered in the negative. In substance, the information regarding life insurance policy earlier [2024] 4 S.C.R. 743 Mahakali Sujatha v. The Branch Manager, Future Generali India Life Insurance Company Limited & another taken had to be mentioned. The query was answered as “NA” or “not applicable” response. The appellant company therein issued a policy of life insurance to the spouse of the respondent on 22.09.2009. The respondent spouse died on 08.02.2010. A claim for payment of Rs.10 lakhs was submitted. On coming to know that the spouse of the respondent therein had been insured with another private insurance company for a sum of Rs.11 lakhs and that the claim had been settled, the appellant company repudiated the claim stating that there was suppression of material fact inasmuch as there was glaring omission in the mentioning of details of the life insurance policy held by the life assured with other company. Being aggrieved by the repudiation, the respondent in the said case filed a consumer complaint which was dismissed on the ground that there was non-disclosure of the fact that the insured had held a previous policy in the proposal form filled up by the proposer. The appeal filed by the respondent was, however, allowed based on a decision of the NCDRC in Sahara India Life Insurance Co. Ltd. vs. Rayani Ramanjaneyulu, 2014 SCC OnLine NCDRC 525 : (2014) 3 CPJ 582 (“Sahara India”). The decision of the State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission was affirmed by NCDRC for the reason that the omission of the insured to disclose a previous policy of insurance would not influence the mind of a prudent insurer, as held in Sahara India. 34. The question before this Court in the aforesaid case was, whether, the repudiation could be sustained on the grounds of suppression of information about other insurance policies. It is pertinent to note that the insured therein had admitted the non-disclosure of the earlier cover for life insurance held by him, but argued that the non-disclosure of such information was not a material fact whose suppression would allow for repudiation of the claim under Section 45. Therefore, the Court ruled in favour of the insurance company and held that such suppression was indeed a material suppression of information, as it had a bearing on the decision of the insurer to enter into the contract of insurance or not.