Further, this Court also pointed out that no application based on mutual consent of the parties was moved. In other words, the Learned ASG urged, that this Court rendered the matter infructuous, leaving nothing to be adjudicated even though no formal application based on mutual consent was moved. It was then contended that the 2011 was issued in a bona fide manner to give effect to the directions mandating that the State would not go back from implementing the proposal approved by this Court. 34. Per contra, Mr. Dushyant Dave, Learned Senior Counsel representing the Respondents and learned counsel for the Caveator, Ms. Shubhangi Tuli, vehemently opposed the claim put forth on behalf of the State. They argued that the Respondents, who are retired senior citizens, have been dragged by the State in avoidable litigation for the last twenty-two years, despite this being a simpliciter case of acknowledgement and removal of the pay anomaly. They contended that the Appellants have consistently defied the Court’s s and, being in contempt, are making flimsy and false excuses to overreach the judicial system. They urged that firstly, the State’s plea regarding the financial burden of approximately Rupees 1500 Crores is unsubstantiated and has no factual foundation. Secondly, the mere consequence of financial burden is not a valid ground to denounce a judicial dictum. 1 [2000] Supp. 1 SCR 538 : (2000) 6 SCC 359 1336 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports ANALYSIS 35. We have considered the rival submissions in the backdrop of the protracted litigation between the parties, which has led to the passing of multiple s by this Court and the High Court, a brief reference to which has already been made. The relevant records have also been perused. 36. It may be seen that the instant round of litigation is triggered by the Single Judge’s Judgement against which the highly belated intra-court appeal has been summarily dismissed by the Division Bench of the High Court. We are thus required to scrutinize the Single Judge’s Judgement to determine whether the consequential directions issued therein are justified and in tune with the previous rounds of litigation. 37. We are constrained to observe at the outset that the of the Learned Single Judge appears to be wholly misconceived, on several parameters, in light of the bizarre observations made with reference to the decision of this Court dated 08.12.2010. Learned Single Judge seems to have been swayed by a hypothetical reason that the intricacies of the Hindi language employed in the proposed Policy were beyond the comprehension of the Hon’ble Judges of the Supreme Court, who were misled to believe as if it was more than just a mere proposal. The Learned Single Judge observed that the State capitalized on this misrepresentation before this Court and, consequently, issued the 2011 . It has been further observed that on the basis of such distortion and in blatant contravention of the High Court’s previous dated 06.05.2022, the State finagled to release a higher pay scale to SDI/ABSA, aligning it with that of Headmasters, on a notional basis from 01.01.2006 thereby restricting the actual monetary benefits from 01.12.2008 only.