15.3 In her cross-examination PW-2 stated that the house belonged to her mother. Her father PW-1 and her mother resided in the said house. Accused used to stay in the ground floor of their house for five years and had vacated the said house prior to the incident two to three months after expiry of the mortgage (sic) period. After vacating the house, the accused used to reside in a house at IV cross at Paduvarahalli (Vinayakanagar). He was working in a cement dealer shop. After vacating the house, he did not visit the house again and that PW-2 had not seen him. [2024] 3 S.C.R. 339 Kumar @ Shiva Kumar v. State of Karnataka 15.4 At the time of the incident, her deceased sister X was aged about 21 or 22 years. She stated that she and the other family members did not try to conduct the marriage of the deceased. Her father PW-1 was not living with them as he was residing with another woman outside marriage separately. She stated that after the death of her husband she started staying in the said house of her mother. On the day of the incident, her mother had already died. 15.5 PW-2 stated that she had not disclosed to any other person the factum of ill treatment and harassment meted out to her deceased sister by the accused. She had also not stated before the police the fact that her deceased sister X had told her about the harassment of the accused fifteen days prior to her death and her being in a pensive mood. 15.6 She denied the suggestion of the defence that on the date of the incident she had taken her children to the school and that when she had returned to the house at 10:30 AM, she found her deceased sister X in an unconscious condition. 15.7 PW-2 further stated that they did not keep any poisonous medicine in the house. She did not find any bottle containing poison near the bed of the deceased. She denied a suggestion that she along with her another sister Shantha and her husband Diwakar had taken her sister X to Karuna Nursing Home. 15.8 PW-2 stated that she saw her father in the Mission Hospital at 5:00 PM on 06.07.2000. She had not told and informed her father about the incident relating to her sister. Till the dead body of X was taken, her father was in the hospital. 15.9 PW-2 stated that while it was true that the accused was a married person, she did not know that he had married two months prior to the incident. There are residential houses around the house. They were having good relation with the neighbours. The accused was having a chit fund when he used to reside in the house. PW-2 was also a member of the said chit fund. She denied the suggestion that they had tried to marry the deceased with the accused when he used to reside in their house and that the accused had declined to marry her deceased sister which was the reason for him to leave the 340 [2024] 3 S.C.R.