If we consider the nature of annexation of the tower to the earth, it is seen that the annexation is not for permanent annexation to the land or the building as the tower can be removed or relocated without causing damage to it. It is also to be noted that the attachment of the tower to the building or the land is not for the permanent enjoyment of the building or the land. Further, the tower is fixed to the land or building for enhancing the operational efficacy and proper functioning of the antenna which is fixed on the tower by making it stable and wobble free. The fact that the tower, if required can be removed, dismantled in the CKD and SKD and sold in the market is not disputed. Application of the tests evolved and discussed above on these items clearly points to the movability as opposed to immovability of these items. We are, thus, of the view that mobile towers and PFBs are movable properties and hence, “goods”. 11.9.10 What we have also noticed is that the Bombay High Court has held that since the towers and parts thereof are fastened and fixed to the earth and after their erection, they become immovable, and therefore, these cannot be classified as goods. While this conclusion is based on the classic definition of immovable property based on one criterion, as noticed earlier, that may not be the sole consideration to determine whether a property is immovable or movable. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1581 M/s Bharti Airtel Ltd. v. The Commissioner of Central Excise, Pune Even if the property is embedded to the earth and appears ex-facie immovable, if there are other indicators which show the characteristics of a movable property, as for instance, susceptibility to removal of the property from the fixture without causing any damage to its basic structure and change in character, ability of relocation to a new location and if the same can be sold thereby showing marketability, and lack of intention to make it a permanent fixture, in spite of the said property being embedded to the earth by way of fixing, the property may still be considered to be movable as has been held in many of the cases referred to above including in Solid and Correct Engineering (supra). 11.9.11 It also appears that the decision of this Court in Solid and Correct Engineering (supra) was not brought to the notice of the Bombay High Court and thus escaped consideration. The Bombay High Court without considering above-mentioned aspects proceeded on the premise that these items namely tower, its parts thereof and PFBs are immovable properties. In paragraph no. 52 of the impugned , while dealing with the case of CCE Vs. Sai Samhita Storages (P) Ltd., (supra) rendered by the Division Bench of the Andhra Pradesh High Court, the Bombay High Court observed that, “The towers are admittedly immovable structures and non-marketable and non-excisable. We, therefore, are of the clear opinion that this of the Division Bench of the Andhra Pradesh High Court is inapplicable in the facts of the present case.” 11.9.12 We are of the opinion that the aforesaid finding was erroneous for the reason that there was no admission on the part of the Assessee that towers are immovable structures and in fact, that was the disputed issue before the Court which was required to be determined.