[Para 203] 2. The interpretation of Article 39(b), i.e. that all private property is covered within the ambit of Article 39(b) is inconsistent with the text of Article 39(b). [Para 204] 3. There is a distinction between holding that private property may form part of the phrase ‘material resources of the community’ and holding that all private property falls within the net of the phrase. It is here that the by Justice Krishna Iyer in Ranganatha Reddy, and the consequent observations in Sanjeev Coke fall into error. Justice Krishna Iyer cast the net wide, holding that all resources which meet “material needs” are covered by the phrase and any attempts by the government to nationalise these resources would be within the scope of Article 39(b). He clarified that not only the “means of production” but also the goods so produced fall within the net of the provision. The illustration which he provides in Ranganatha Reddy indicates the unworkable nature of such an interpretation. Justice Krishna Iyer observed, by way of an illustration, that not only do factories which produce cars fall within the net of Article 39(b), but even privately owned cars are covered by the provision. Similarly, even in Sanjeev Coke, the net is cast wide and this Court observed that “all things capable of producing wealth of the community” fall within the ambit of the phrase. In both decisions, it was observed that all resources of the individual are consequentially the resources of the community. [Para 209] 4. An interpretation of Article 39(b) which places all private property within the net of the phrase “material resources of the community” only satisfies one of the three requirements of the phrase, i.e. that the goods in question must be a 10 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports ‘resource’. However, it ignores the qualifiers that they must be “material” and “of the community”. The use of the words “material” and “community” are not meaningless superfluities. One cannot adopt a construction of the provision which renders these terms otiose. The words “of the community” must be understood as distinct from the “individual”. If Article 39(b) was meant to include all resources owned by an individual, it would state the “ownership and control of resources is so distributed as best to subserve the common good”. Similarly, if the provision were to exclude privately owned resources, it would state “ownership and control of resources of the state …” instead of its current phrasing. The use of the word “of the community” rather than “of the state” indicates a specific intention to include some privately owned resources. [Para 211] 5. In essence, the text of the provision indicates that not all privately owned resources fall within the ambit of the phrase. However, privately owned resources are not excluded as a class and some private resources may be covered. The resource in question must meet the two qualifiers, i.e. it must be a “material” resource and it must be “of the community”. [Para 212] 6.