The relevant observations are as thus: 812 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports “67. From the aforesaid decisions, in my opinion, the law appears to be well settled. The primary object of the legislature behind Section 197 of the Code is to protect public officers who have acted in discharge of their duties or purported to act in discharge of such duties. But, it is equally well settled that the act said to have been committed by a public officer must have reasonable connection with the duty sought to be discharged by such public officer. If the act complained of has no nexus, reasonable connection or relevance to the official act or duty of such public servant and is otherwise illegal, unlawful or in the nature of an offence, he cannot get shelter under Section 197 of the Code. In other words, protection afforded by the said section is qualified and conditional. 68. Mr Tulsi, no doubt, submitted that the appellant was a police officer. He was on duty. He had received a message about rioting and law and situation at Beliaghata. He, therefore, had gone to the spot pursuant to the said message, in police uniform, in police jeep to deal with the situation. All the ingredients of Section 197 of the Code were thus satisfied and the High Court was wrong in not applying the said provision. 69. I am unable to agree with Mr Tulsi. In my , it is precisely in such cases that the Court is called upon to consider whether the public servant was acting or purporting to act in discharge of his duty or it was merely a cloak for doing illegal act under the excuse of his status as a public servant and by taking undue advantage of his position, he was committing an offence or an unlawful act. In such situations, when the question comes up for consideration before a court of law as to the applicability or otherwise of Section 197 of the Code, it is not only the power but the duty of the Court to apply its mind to the fact situation before it. It should ensure that on the one hand, the public servant is protected if the case is covered by Section 197 of the Code and on the other hand, appropriate action would be allowed to be taken if the provision is not attracted and under the guise of his position as public servant, he is trying to take undue advantage.” (emphasis supplied) [2024] 12 S.C.R. 813 Om Prakash Yadav v. Niranjan Kumar Upadhyay & Ors. 60. In Choudhury Parveen Sultana v. State of West Bengal and Another reported in (2009) 3 SCC 398 the appellant’s husband had suffered grievous injury in a shoot-out for which a case was registered and police investigation was undertaken. The appellant had filed a complaint before the Magistrate that the respondent no. 2 (Investigating Officer) and the co-accused visited her house under the pretext of conducting an investigation, threatened her and her husband to make a tutored statement and had also tried to obtain the husband’s signature on a blank paper under threatening circumstances.