So far as mineral-bearing lands are concerned, is the impact of the tax on the land or on royalties? The change in the scheme of taxation under Section 7 in 1976; the important and magnitude of the revenue by way of royalties received by the State; the charge of the cess as a percentage and, indeed, as multiples of the amount of royalty; and the mode and collection of the cess amount along with the royalties and as part thereof are circumstances which go to show that the legislation in this regard is with respect to royalty rather than with respect to land.” 300. In Federation of Mining Associations of Rajasthan v. State of Rajasthan,377 a three-Judge Bench relied on India Cement (supra) and Orissa Cement (supra) to declare that the State legislature did not have competence to a levy tax on mineral bearing land on the basis of the royalty derived from the land. 301. In the aftermath of the decision in Orissa Cement (supra), the State legislature of Orissa enacted the Orissa Rural Employment, Education and Production Act 1992 to increase the income of the State and compensate the loss faced by the exchequer. The legislation levied a cess on “all lands”. Land was defined to mean “land of whatever description […] and includes all benefits to arise out of lands.” In Mahanadi Coalfields (supra) this Court held that since ‘minerals’ are benefits arising out of land, the charging section imposed a tax on minerals.378 The levy was held in substance to be on mineral rights under Entry 50 of List II. It was observed that since the MMDR Act provides for “all kinds of taxation on minerals and mineral rights,” the State legislature was not competent to levy the tax under Entry 50 of List II. 377 (1992) Supp. 2 SCC 239 [5] 378 Mahanadi Coalfield Ltd. (supra) [19] [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1729 Mineral Area Development Authority & Anr. v. M/s Steel Authority of India & Anr. Etc. 302. The decisions rendered in above s, ranging from India Cement (supra) to Mahanadi Coalfields (supra), proceed on two premises: first, the MMDR Act, by providing for all levies with respect to taxation of minerals and mineral rights, completely excludes the legislative competence of the States to tax mineral-bearing land; and second, royalty is not directly connected to land and cannot be used as a measure to tax mineral-bearing land. The first premise has been answered in the earlier segments of this . The MMDR Act does not serve as a limitation on the legislative competence of the States to tax mineral rights under Entry 50 of List II. Moreover, as held in Special Areas Development Authority (supra), the MMDR Act does not impede the legislative competence of the States with respect to legislative entries under List II, including the power to levy taxes on mineral-bearing lands under Entry 49 of List II. The second assumption is also wrong for the reasons we will discuss in the ensuing segments.