1 is answered in the affirmative. 13. Point No.2:- For the aforesaid reason and discussion, I proceed pass the following I.A. No. II under 6 rule 17 read with Sec. 151 of C.P.C. is hereby allowed. [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1891 Mallavva and Anr. v. Kalsammanavara Kalamma (Since Dead) by Legal Heirs & Ors. Appellants are permitted to amend the plaint and directed to submit the amended plaint in the office within 7 days from this . No as to cost.” j. The First Appellate Court reversed the and passed by the trial court and thereby allowed the First Appeal filed by the plaintiffs. The First Appellate Court while allowing the First Appeal observed as under: “40. The counsel or the respondents have argued that the defendants have got amended the plaint and also contended that the suit of the plaintiff as well as her legal heirs are barred under law of limitation as they approached the court after lapse of prescribed law of limitation. Further the counsel for the respondents have argued that since the suit is for the relief of declaration the plaintiff ought to have filed the suit within three years from the date of cause of action. Now they are seeking the relief of possession. The plaintiff shall file the suit within 12 years from the date of dispossession. Even by considering the RTC extracts since 1981, defendants are in possession of the suit properties, totally the claim of the plaintiff is barred under law of limitation. By considering the arguments I again carefully went through the pleading and other materials available on record. 41. Of course initially the suit is for declaration of title and consequential relief of permanent injunction. As per the provision of Article 58 of Limitation Act, in to obtain any declaration three years when the right to sue first accrues. As per the detailed discussion made above of course the plaintiff has established her right over the suit properties. Now the legal heirs of plaintiff are claiming the alternative relief of possession. Since the plaintiff failed to prove their possession, they are entitled for the possession also. In to entitle the possession, as per provision of Article 55 of Limitation Act, the limitation is 12 years 1892 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports when the possession of the defendants became adverse to the plaintiff. … As per the dictum of Hon’ble Supreme Court when the suit is for possession based on title, once the title is established unless the defendant proves adverse possession, the plaintiff cannot be non suited. Here the claim of the plaintiff by virtue of the title succeeded by through her ancestors. Under such circumstances unless the defendants have pleaded and proved that they are in adverse possession against to the interest of the plaintiff, the plaintiff cannot be non suited. Accordingly now it is settled principle of law that when the plaintiff established right, title and interest over the suit property and the defendants are in possession unless and until the defendants are proved that they are in adverse possession and they became owners over the particular property by virtue of adverse possession the plaintiff cannot be non suited and it cannot be hold that suit is barred by law of limitation.