In the instant case, the POA was duly executed in favour of the donee, the signatory of the documents, and was duly notarised before its submission along with other important documents required to be submitted as per the NIT by the Appellant, before the last date of submission fixed by the Respondent BCCL. Hence, there was no legal or justifiable ground to reject the Technical bid of the Appellant. 20. Thus, the said action of the Respondent BCCL in rejecting the Technical bid of the Appellant on absolutely extraneous ground and [2024] 10 S.C.R. 439 Banshidhar Construction Pvt. Ltd. v. Bharat Coking Coal Limited & Others accepting the Technical bid of the Respondent no.8 though submitted in utter non-compliance of the mandatory requirement of Clause 10 of the NIT, and subsequently calling upon the Respondent no.8 to furnish the shortfall of documents after the opening of technical bids of the Bidders, was totally arbitrary and illegal. 21. There cannot be any disagreement to the legal proposition propounded in catena of decisions of this Court relied upon by the learned counsels for the Respondents to the effect that the Court does not sit as a Court of Appeal in the matter of award of contracts and it merely reviews the manner in which the decision was made; and that the Government and its instrumentalities must have a freedom of entering into the contracts. However, it is equally well settled that the decision of the government/ its instrumentalities must be free from arbitrariness and must not be affected by any bias or actuated by malafides. Government bodies being public authorities are expected to uphold fairness, equality and public interest even while dealing with contractual matters. Right to equality under Article 14 abhors arbitrariness. Public authorities have to ensure that no bias, favouritism or arbitrariness are shown during the bidding process and that the entire bidding process is carried out in absolutely transparent manner. 22. At this juncture, we may reiterate the well-established tenets of law pertaining to the scope of judicial intervention in Government contracts. 23. In Sterling Computers Limited vs. M/s. M & N Publications Limited and Others,1 this Court while dealing with the scope of judicial review of award of contracts held: - “18. While exercising the power of judicial review, in respect of contracts entered into on behalf of the State, the Court is concerned primarily as to whether there has been any infirmity in the “decision making process”. In this connection reference may be made to the case of Chief Constable of the North Wales Police v. Evans [(1982) 3 All ER 141] where it was said that: (p. 144a) 1 [1993] 1 SCR 81 : (1993) 1 SCC 445 440 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “The purpose of judicial review is to ensure that the individual receives fair treatment, and not to ensure that the authority, after according fair treatment, reaches on a matter which it is authorised or enjoined by law to decide for itself a conclusion which is correct in the eyes of the court.” By way of judicial review the court cannot examine the details of the terms of the contract which have been entered into by the public bodies or the State.