Hence, he prayed to set aside the impugned and grant bail to the Appellant. 9. Per contra, Mr. Suryaprakash V. Raju, learned Additional Solicitor General, on behalf of the Respondent, submitted that there is sufficient evidence on record to prove the incriminating role of the Appellant and the same is revealed by the statements of Protected witnesses. 10. He further submitted that the Appellant-accused along with co- accused Bikarmjit Singh @ Vicky (Accused No. 3) were involved in the activities of “Sikhs for Justice”, a banded terrorist organisation, whose chief proponent is Gurpatwant Singh Pannu (Accused No. 12) and Bikramjit Singh @ Vicky (Accused No. 3) had asked their known persons to arrange weapons from Kashmir. In furtherance of their activities to procure arms and ammunition, the Appellant-accused along with co-accused Bikarmjit Singh @ Vicky and Harpreet Singh @ Happy (Accused No. 7) had visited Srinagar. 11. He further submitted that Appellant in his voluntary disclosure statement admitted that on gaining knowledge of purpose of visit to Srinagar, he voluntarily continued the journey. In fact, the Appellant suggested an alternative to the co-accused and advised them to procure the weapon from Western Uttar Pradesh. 1 [2021] 1 SCR 443 : (2021) 3 SCC 713 [2024] 2 S.C.R. 141 Gurwinder Singh v. State of Punjab & Another 12. Further, he submitted that the provisions of section 43D(5) of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967 are completely applicable in this case and as such the High court has rightly denied bail to the Appellant-accused. 13. He also contended that the case is presently under trial and so far 22 witnesses have been examined. The accused is facing charges of grave nature pertaining to crimes that are not attributable to an individual but members of a terrorist gang operating at the behest of Gurpatwant Singh Pannu (Accused No. 12), a proscribed terrorist. If the Appellant is released on bail, there is every likelihood that he will influence the key witnesses of the case hampering the process of justice. Hence, he prayed that the bail petition should be rejected. DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSION 14. We have heard the learned counsel on behalf of both the parties and have perused the records of the case. The present case involves the charges under the UAP Act along with other charges under the IPC and Arms Act therefore, it is apt to consider the bail provision envisaged under section 43D of the UAP Act before we delve to analyze the facts. Bail under UAP Act: Section 43D (5) 15. In the course of oral argument, both sides have laid great emphasis on the interpretation of section 43D(5) of the 1967 Act. We will begin our analysis with a discussion on the scope and limitations of bail under Section 43D(5) UAP Act. We shall extract Section 43D(5) for easy reference: “Section 43D - Modified application of certain provisions of the Code (1)...... ................ (5) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code, no person accused of an offence punishable under Chapters IV and VI of this Act shall, if in custody, be released on bail or on his own bond unless the Public Prosecutor has been given an opportunity of being heard on the application for such release: 142 [2024] 2 S.C.R.