5. 2.5 The Trial Court decreed the suit upon finding that the agreement to sell has been executed between the appellant/plaintiff and defendant no. 1 as a Power of Attorney Holder of defendant nos. 2 to 11. Non-examination of the appellant/plaintiff as a witness was held not having any adverse impact on plaintiff’s case. The Trial Court also found that the time allowed for execution of sale deed was extended twice and he had also paid earnest money, therefore, the appellant/plaintiff was ready and willing to perform his part of the contract and the suit is not barred by limitation. Since the extended time for registration of sale deed was till 31.05.1997 and the suit was to be filed on or before 30.05.2000. However, on the said date, the Court was closed for summer vacation which ended on 18.06.2000 and the suit was filed on 19.06.2000. Therefore, the suit was within limitation, having been filed on the last date of limitation. 2.6 In appeal preferred by the respondent nos. 1 to 3/defendant nos. 12 to 14, the High Court has passed the impugned [2024] 5 S.C.R. 617 Rajesh Kumar v. Anand Kumar & Ors. allowing the appeal to set aside the and decree of the Trial Court consequently dismissing the appellant/plaintiff’s suit. Hence this appeal. 3. Mr. Dhruv Agrawal, learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant would submit that the High Court has committed serious error of law and fact by setting aside the well reasoned and decree passed by the Trial Court. According to him, the execution of sale agreement by defendant no. 1 as a Power of Attorney Holder of Defendant Nos. 2 to 11 having been duly proved and the appellant/ plaintiff having paid the earnest money and filing the suit within time, the First Appellate Court ought not to have set aside the of the Trial Court. It is further submitted that the High Court is not correct in holding that the defendant nos. 2 to 11 had not signed the agreement because defendant no. 1 was their Power of Attorney Holder. The High Court has also erred in holding that Power of Attorney Holder cannot depose in a civil suit on behalf of the plaintiff. According to him, non-appearance of the appellant/ plaintiff as a witness would not have any adverse impact in a suit of this nature and that the readiness and willingness can be proved by the Attorney Holder. 4. Per contra, Mr. Gagan Gupta, learned senior counsel for the respondents/defendants would submit that the agreement dated 26.09.1995 is void ab initio because it was not executed by all the owners of the suit land. It was then argued that in a suit for specific performance non-appearance of plaintiff as a witness is fatal to his case because it is he who has to plead and prove the readiness and willingness. He would submit that the High Court has rightly set aside the and decree of the Trial Court which is based on perverse finding and incorrect application of settled legal principles.