It is thus clear that the main object which the rules propose to achieve is to improve the anomalies and malpractices prevailing in the export trade of coir commodities and to put the said trade on a firm and enduring basis in the interest of national economy. We are, therefore, satisfied that the challenge to the impugned rules on the ground of infringement of Article 14 of the Constitution must also fail.” (emphasis supplied) 31. The further contention that a quantitative test discriminates between persons carrying on business on a large scale and those who carry on business on a small scale as even the prescription of a qualitative test would also lead to hardship on those who cannot satisfy the test was rejected. 852 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 32. We must also now consider further arguments advanced by learned senior counsel and counsel for the petitioners. Heavy reliance placed on Institute of Chartered Financial Analysts of India, in our considered opinion, is misplaced. This case concerned whether acquisition of an additional qualification of Chartered Financial Analyst (“CFA”) by a Chartered Accountant could be termed as professional misconduct under Section 22 of the 1949 Act. Holding in the negative, this Court found that enhancement of knowledge, training and ability should be encouraged in an emerging economy and to term the same as professional misconduct would be violative of Articles 14 and 19(1)(g). That case is clearly distinguishable. Neither did this Court find that the restriction placed was in public interest, nor that the acquisition of an additional qualification hurt the quality of statutory responsibilities attributed to a Chartered Accountant. 33. The argument advanced by learned counsel for the petitioners is that as a direct consequence and effect of the ceiling limit, an anomalous situation of discrimination between qualified professionals practicing in metropolitan cities as against those in mofussil areas, or those catering to small assessees as against those catering to bigger assessees, must be categorically rejected. The potential effect of the concerned restriction is that practitioners dealing in mofussil areas or catering to small assessees will face a reduction in their income which is violative of their right to freely engage in their profession. We find ourselves unable to agree with this contention. There is no material to suggest that this partial limitation on the practise of the profession would lead to a significant reduction in income. In any case, it is trite law that reduction of income cannot be a ground for holding a reasonable restriction unreasonable vide Minerva Talkies which we shall discuss later. Where the devolution of a privilege is justifiably restricted in public interest and such restriction has a rational nexus with the objects sought to be achieved, the restriction cannot be held unreasonable due to hardship faced by a certain section of professionals. 34. The following s of this Court are also apposite: (a) In B.P. Sharma, clause 17 of the instructions issued in 1979 by the Ministry of Tourism and Civil Aviation, Department of Tourism, Government of India prohibiting the renewal of identity cards to guides who were carrying on the job of conducting tourists [2024] 6 S.C.R.