[Para 190] 6. Though sub-categorization based on each caste is permissible, there can never be a situation where seats are allocated for every caste separately – Though each caste is a separate unit, the social backwardness suffered by each of them is not substantially distinguishable to warrant the State to reserve seats for each caste – If the social backwardness of two or more classes is comparable, they must be grouped together for the purposes of reservation. [Para 195] 7. The scope of sub-classification of the Scheduled Castes is summarized as follows: (i) The objective of any form of affirmative action including sub-classification is to provide substantive equality of opportunity for the backward classes – The State can sub- classify, inter alia, based on inadequate representation of certain castes – However, the State must establish that the inadequacy of representation of a caste/group is because of its backwardness; (ii) The State must collect data on the inadequacy of representation in the “services of the State” because it is used as an indicator of backwardness; and (iii) Article 335 of the Constitution is not a limitation on the exercise of power under Articles 16(1) and 16(4) – Rather, it is a restatement of the necessity of considering the claims of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes in public services – Efficiency of administration must be viewed in a manner which promotes inclusion and equality as required by Article 16(1). [Para 205(f)] Held (per B.R. Gavai, J.) (Concurring): 1. For sub-classification amongst the Scheduled Castes, the State will have to justify that the group for which more beneficial treatment is provided is inadequately represented as compared to the other castes in the said List. [Para 296 (iii)] 2. While doing so, the State will have to justify the same on the basis of empirical data that a sub-class in whose favour such more 1330 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports beneficial treatment is provided is not adequately represented. [Para 296 (iv)] 3. However, while providing for sub-classification, the State would not be entitled to reserve 100% seats available for Scheduled Castes in favour of a sub-class to the exclusion of other castes in the List. [Para 296 (v)] 4. Such a sub-classification would be permissible only if there is a reservation for a sub-class as well as the larger class. [Para 296 (vi)] Held (per Vikram Nath, J.) (Concurring): Any exercise involving sub-classification by the State must be supported by empirical data. [Para 1] Held (per Satish Chandra Sharma, J.) (Concurring): I am fully in agreement with the opinion(s) authored by Hon’ble Dr. Justice D.Y. Chandrachud, Chief Justice of India and Hon’ble Mr. Justice B.R. Gavai, respectively to the extent that any exercise involving sub-classification by the State, must be supported by empirical data that ought to underscore the more ‘disadvantaged’ status of the sub-group to which such preferential treatment is sought to be provided vis-à-vis the Constitutional Class as a whole. [Para 1] Reservation – Applicability of creamy layer principle to the Scheduled Castes – Discussed.