2368 of 2024 Appearances for Parties Ms. Preetika Dwivedi, Abhisek Mohanty, Advs. for the Appellant. Yasharth Kant, Jitendra Kumar Tripathi, Ankit Goel, Dhawal Uniyal, Nikhil Sharma, Advs. for the Respondents. / of the Supreme Court 1. Leave granted. 2. The present appeals arise out of a decision of the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad dated 04.04.2023 in Application under Section 482 No. 30221 of 2017, whereby the High Court refused to quash a summoning dated 24.08.2017 passed under Section 319 12 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of the Cr.P.C. by the Additional District & Sessions Judge, Kanpur Dehat, where the Appellants herein were directed to face a trial for offence under Section 302 IPC. Both the Appellants being identically placed, their appeals are being dealt with together. 3. The issue that arises for our consideration is whether there is sufficient material against the Appellant prompting the Trial Court to pass a summoning under Section 319 Cr.P.C. The principles of law being settled by the s of the constitutional benches of this Court, this question hinges upon the facts of the present case, which is as follows: 4. Facts and investigation: On 10.05.2011, the first informant (PW- 1), who is the mother of the deceased, got an FIR lodged at P.S. Ghatampur, informing that her son was found dead near a tubewell in the wheat field of a fellow villager. In her statement, she alleged that her son was murdered by the present appellants, the father of the appellants, along with two others, due to certain old enmity existing between the two families. 5. The following day, the investigation officer recorded a statement of PW-1 under Section 161 Cr.P.C. In this statement she also stated that the deceased was quarrelsome, had a habit of picking up fights with other villagers and had a few criminal cases going on against them. Previously, he had also picked up fights with the father of the appellants. She stated that on 08.05.2011, Mahendra Singh, a gangster of the same village, came on a bike and asked the deceased to accompany him, on the pretext that Mahendra Singh would pay back a sum of Rs. 8,000 which he had borrowed from PW-1, and also that he would help the deceased arrive at a compromise with Accused No. 1 (father of the appellants) and Accused No. 3. Accordingly, the deceased left on the motorcycle of Mahendra Singh. She stated that Accused Nos. 1-3 were standing at a distance noticing the developments. She stated with conviction that Accused Nos. 1-3 along with Mahendra Singh killed the deceased. In this statement, PW-1 stated that the appellants were not involved and that she wrote their name in her first information statement incorrectly and without collecting full information. Two other persons (witness), Rajau Sengar and Karan Singh, in their Section 161 statements reiterated the statement of PW-1. Even they stated that the present appellants had no role whatsoever in the commission of the crime. [2024] 6 S.C.R. 13 Shankar v. The State of Uttar Pradesh & Ors.