30. Sections 9(2) and 9(3) cast a burden that where the Court itself is of the opinion that the person was a child on the date of commission of the offence, it shall conduct an inquiry so as to determine the age of such person and upon finding that the person alleged to have 1244 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports committed the offence was a child on date of commission of such offence, forward such person to the Board for passing appropriate s and sentence, if any, passed by the Court shall be deemed to have no effect. 31. In the present case, the situation is very stark inasmuch as, even when the charge sheet was filed, the Investigating Officer had clearly recorded that the date of birth of the accused was 30th May, 2000, and hence, even assuming that Sessions Court at Salem had been designated as a Children’s Court, there was no option for the said Court but to forward the child to the concerned Board for further directions. 32. There is no dispute on the aspect that the offences of which the accused appellant was charged with, fall within the category of ‘heinous offences’ as defined under Section 2(33) of the JJ Act. Section 15(1) provides that in case where a heinous offence/s are alleged to have been committed by a child who has completed or is above the age of sixteen years, the Board shall conduct a preliminary assessment with regard to his mental and physical capacity to commit such offence, ability to understand the consequences of the offence and the circumstances in which he committed the offence. The Board, after conducting such assessment, may pass an in accordance with the provisions of sub-section (3) of Section 18 of the JJ Act. Section 15(2) provides that where the Board is satisfied on preliminary assessment that the matter should be disposed of by the Board, then the Board shall follow the procedure, as far as may be, for trial of summons case under CrPC. Under first proviso to this sub-section, the passed by the Board is appealable under Section 101(2) of the JJ Act. 33. Section 18(3) provides that where the Board after preliminary assessment under Section 15 opines that there is a need for the said child to be tried as an adult, then the Board may transfer of the trial of the case to the Children’s Court having jurisdiction to try such offences. 34. By virtue of Section 19(1), the Children’s Court, upon receiving such report of preliminary assessment undertaken by the Board under Section 15 may further decide as to whether there is a need for trial of the child as an adult or not. [2024] 3 S.C.R. 1245 Thirumoorthy v. State Represented by the Inspector of Police 35. The procedure provided under Sections 15 and 19 has been held to be mandatory by this Court in the case of Ajeet Gurjar v. State of Madhya Pradesh3. In the said case, this Court considered the import of Section 19(1) of the JJ Act and held that the word ‘may’ used in the said provision be read as ‘shall’.