Digital Supreme Court Reports down in Janki Vashdeo Bhojwani (supra) and clarified that Power of Attorney holder can depose and verify on oath before the court but he must have witnessed the transaction as an agent and must have due knowledge about it. The Power of Attorney holder who has no knowledge regarding the transaction cannot be examined as a witness. The functions of the General Power of Attorney holder cannot be delegated to any other person without there being a specific clause permitting such delegation in the Power of Attorney; meaning thereby ordinarily there cannot be any sub-delegation. 29. It is, therefore, settled in law that Power of Attorney holder can only depose about the facts within his personal knowledge and not about those facts which are not within his knowledge or are within the personal knowledge of the person who he represents or about the facts that may have transpired much before he entered the scene. The aforesaid Power of Attorney holder PW-1 had clearly deposed that he is giving evidence on behalf of plaintiff Nos. 2 to 4 i.e. the Gala’s. He was not having any authority to act as the Power of Attorney of the Gala’s at the time his statement was recorded. He was granted Power of Attorney subsequently as submitted and accepted by the parties. Therefore, his evidence is completely meaningless to establish that Gala’s have acquired or perfected any easementary right over the disputed rasta in 1994 when the suit was instituted. 30. The only proper and valuable evidence in this regard could have been that of Joki Woler Ruzer who had instituted the suit but he failed to depose before the court. His pleadings are also vague and do not specifically state that he had been in use of the rasta in dispute for over 20 years or that he had acquired and perfected easementary right over the said rasta by prescription or necessity. 31. In the absence of any evidence or material to show that Joki Woler Ruzer had actually acquired any easementary right over the rasta in dispute before the institution of the suit, he could not have transferred any such right in favour of the Gala’s. 32. The easementary right by necessity could be acquired only in accordance with Section 13 of the Act which provides that such easementary right would arise if it is necessary for enjoying the Dominant Heritage. In the instant case, findings have been returned not only by the appellate courts but even by the trial court that there is an alternative way to access the Dominant Heritage, which may [2024] 4 S.C.R. 369 Manisha Mahendra Gala & Ors. v. Shalini Bhagwan Avatramani & Ors. be a little far away or longer which demolishes the easement of necessity. There is no justification to go into those findings of fact returned by the courts below. 33. In the light of the aforesaid findings, the Gala’s are not entitled to any easementary right by necessity upon the disputed rasta.