The question was whether it was a sale of goods that would attract sales tax or a service that would attract service tax under Entry 97 of List-I of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution of India. There were several issues, including an issue of whether there is any transfer of the right to use any goods by providing access to telephone connection by the telephone service provider to the subscriber. Another issue was whether a transaction of providing a telephone connection was a sale, which is an inter-state sale. There were separate but concurring s delivered. Justice Ruma Pal authored the leading for herself and Justice Dalveer Bhandari. In this decision, reference was made to the decision in the case of Gannon Dunkerley & Co.2. It was held that even after Clause 29A of Article 366 was introduced, the meaning of the word “goods” was not altered. It was held that even after Clause 29A was introduced, the ingredients of the sale of goods continue to have the same definition as discussed in the case of Gannon Dunkerley & Co.2. It was held that the transactions which are mutant sales are limited to Clause 29A of Article 366. However, all the transactions must qualify as sales within the meaning of the Sales Tax Act to levy sales tax. In paragraph 74, the decision in the case of 20th Century Finance Corporation Ltd.11 was interpreted. In paragraphs 74 and 75 of the in the case of BSNL5, Justice Ruma Pal observed thus:- “74. In determining the situs of the transfer of the right to use the goods, the Court did not say that delivery of the goods was inessential for the purposes of completing the transfer of the right to use. The emphasised portions in the quoted passage evidences that the goods must be available when the transfer of the right to use the goods takes place. The Court also recognised that for oral contracts the situs of the transfer may be where the goods are delivered (see para 26 of the ). 506 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 75. In our opinion, the essence of the right under Article 366(29-A)(d) is that it relates to user of goods. It may be that the actual delivery of the goods is not necessary for effecting the transfer of the right to use the goods but the goods must be available at the time of transfer, must be deliverable and delivered at some stage. It is assumed, at the time of execution of any agreement to transfer the right to use, that the goods are available and deliverable. If the goods, or what is claimed to be goods by the respondents, are not deliverable at all by the service providers to the subscribers, the question of the right to use those goods, would not arise.” (underline supplied) Thus, this Court held that to attract sub-clause (d) of Clause 29A of Article 366, the goods must be available at the time of transfer, must be deliverable and delivered at some stage.