Digital Supreme Court Reports opportunity was granted to all concerned officers and to widen the field of consideration. 16. There is merit in the challenge to the direction which has been issued by the AFT requiring that the candidature of the petitioner for the grant of PC should be dealt with the batches of 2011 and 2014. To do so would amount to introducing a condition which was not a part of the of this Court in Lieutenant Commander Annie Nagaraja. The binding , which has to be enforced is the decision of this Court in Lieutenant Commander Annie Nagaraja. Any directions de-hors the of the Court could not obviously be issued. Though the case of the petitioner has been considered after the decision in Lieutenant Commander Annie Nagaraja, there is a serious element of prejudice which has been caused to the petitioner which must be rectified so as to enforce the final directions of this Court. 17. We accordingly and direct that in the peculiar facts and circumstances of this case, the case of the petitioner for the grant of PC shall be considered afresh by reconvening a Selection Board. The Selection Board shall consider the case of the petitioner on a stand alone basis since it is common ground that she was the only serving JAG Branch officer of the 2007 batch whose case for the grant of PC was required to be considered. The consideration by the Selection Board shall take place uninfluenced by any previous consideration of her case for PC and uninfluenced by any observations contained in the of the AFT. 18. We however clarify that in the event that pursuant to the directions of the AFT, if a proportional increase in the vacancies is required to be created to accommodate the petitioner, this shall be carried out without creating any precedent for the future. We have issued this direction under Article 142 of the Constitution so as to ensure that while no other officer is displaced, a long standing injustice to the petitioner is duly rectified. 19. Any Annual Confidential Report which has not been communicated to the petitioner shall not be considered for the purpose of the grant of PC. 20. The exercise of considering the petitioner afresh for PC shall be carried out on or before 15 April 2024. [2024] 2 S.C.R. 829 CDR Seema Chaudhary v. Union of India and Others 21. Should the petitioner be aggrieved by any further decision that is taken, she shall be at liberty to pursue her remedies in accordance with law. It is understood by both the petitioner, who is personally present before the Court, as well as the counsel for the Naval authorities that all pending proceedings before the AFT relating to the petitioner shall stand disposed of in view of the present directions. 22. The Review Petition is accordingly disposed of. 23. Pending applications, if any, stand disposed of. Headnotes prepared by: Nidhi Jain Result of the case: Review Petition disposed of.