They submit as follows: a. In the absence of minimum qualifying marks for the language papers, the marking has been skewed. Candidates who have otherwise qualified in the law papers have been awarded unreasonably low marks in the English essay paper; b. Candidates who have attempted the paper have also been awarded zero marks. Since the paper is subjective in nature, the award of no marks is inexplicable; c. The limited space in the Question Paper-cum-Answer Booklet hindered the ability of candidates to answer appropriately; and d. Over fourteen thousand answer sheets were checked by a limited number of examiners within a span of one month between the date of examination and the declaration of results. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2245 Sonal Gupta & Ors. v. Registrar General, Rajasthan High Court Jodhpur & Anr. Procedural history 8. To address the issues which have arisen in this case, the Court issued notice on 18 October 2024 and directed the answer sheets in the English essay of those candidates who have been awarded below fifteen marks to be produced before the Court. Mr Tushar Mehta, Solicitor General placed a note on record indicating that of the 3534 candidates who appeared in the English Essay examination, 3384 or 95.76% of the candidates have secured between zero and fifteen marks. We found it necessary to scan and analyse the data to inspect whether arbitrary variations are discernible. 9. Accordingly, on 21 October 2024 this Court directed that a tabulated statement be placed before the Court indicating the marks which were secured in the Law Paper-I (Civil) and Law Paper-II (Criminal) respectively by those candidates who appeared in the English medium, who secured between zero and fifteen marks in the English Essay and who have not qualified for the interview stage. The trunks containing the record were directed to be kept in the custody of the Secretary General of this Court. Pursuant to our directions, the High Court of Rajasthan has produced a tabulated sheet running into seventy-three pages. Analysis 10. In Sanjay Singh v. UP Public Services Commission4 this court opined that a degree of variation may occur when a large number of candidates are evaluated through an examination by a number of evaluators. However, the likelihood of discrepancy arises when a wide variation can be made out from the results. In Pranav Verma v. High Court of P&H,5 this Court has held that the likelihood of discrepancy is reduced where the evaluation process is uniform. The Court held as follows: “14. … We are of the view that evaluation done by multiple evaluators i.e. one evaluator examining and marking one question in all the marksheets, ensures uniformity and prevents chance grading. Every candidate’s answers 4 (2007) 3 SCC 720 5 (2020) 15 SCC 377 2246 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports are marked on same parameters by the same examiner. There can possibly be no other better method to ensure uniformity in evaluation. … 15. The marking criteria and evaluation method was strict but it was so for everyone.