It further held that there can be no distinction between government forests and private forests in the matter of forest wealth of the nation and in the matter of environment and ecology. 1040 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (b) In the case of Essar Oil Ltd. v. Halar Utkarsh Samiti [(2004) 2 SCC 392], this Court discussed the need for a balance between the economic and social needs and development on the one hand and environment considerations on the other. It was observed that laws on environment should be to create harmony between the two since neither one can be sacrificed at the altar of the other. In this regard, the observations of this Court in the case of Indian Council for Enviro-Legal Action v. Union of India [(1996) 5 SCC 281] were quoted as under: “While economic development should not be allowed to take place at the cost of ecology or by causing widespread environment destruction and violation; at the same time, the necessity to preserve ecology and environment should not hamper economic and other developments. Both development and environment must go hand in hand, in other words, there should not be development at the cost of environment.” (c) In the case of Maharashtra Land Development Corporation v. State of Maharashtra [(2011) 15 SCC 616] reference was made to Glanrock Estate Private Limited v. State of Tamil Nadu [(2010) 10 SCC 96] wherein it was observed as under: “27. …. Forests in India are an important part of the environment. They constitute [a] national asset. In various s of this Court delivered by the Forest Bench of this Court in T.N. Godavarman Thirumulpad v. Union of India (Writ Petition No. 202 of 1995), it has been held that ‘intergenerational equity’ is part of Article 21 of the Constitution. 28. What is intergenerational equity? The present generation is answerable to the next generation by giving to the next generation a good environment. We are answerable to the next generation and if deforestation takes place rampantly then intergenerational equity would stand violated. [2024] 1 S.C.R. 1041 The State of Himachal Pradesh and Others v. Yogendera Mohan Sengupta and Another 29. The doctrine of sustainable development also forms part of Article 21 of the Constitution. The ‘precautionary principle’ and the ‘polluter pays principle’ flow from the core value in Article 21. 30. The important point to be noted is that in this case we are concerned with vesting of forests in the State. When we talk about intergenerational equity and sustainable development, we are elevating an ordinary principle of equality to the level of overarching principle.” (d) Of course, one cannot ignore one of the several dicta of this Court in T.N. Godavarman Thirumulkpad v. Union of India [(1997) 2 SCC 267 : AIR 1997 SC 1228] wherein this Court enunciated the definition of “forest” in the following words: “4. The Forest Conservation Act, 1980 was enacted with a view to check further deforestation which ultimately results in ecological imbalance; and therefore, the provisions made therein for the conservation of forests and for matters connected therewith, must apply to all forests irrespective of the nature of ownership or classification thereof.