A Judge from an affluent background might have a different mindset as against a Judge from a humble one. A female Judge might look at it differently, when compared to her male counterpart. An Appellate Court might tinker with the sentence due to its experience, and the external factors like institutional constraints might come into play. Certainly, there is a crying need for a clear sentencing policy, which should never be judge-centric as the society has to know the basis of a sentence. 33. Sentencing shall not be a mere lottery. It shall also not be an outcome of a knee-jerk reaction. This is a very important part of the Fundamental Rights conferred under Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution of India, 1950. Any unwarranted disparity would be against the very concept of a fair trial and, therefore, against justice. 34. Various elements such as deterrence, incapacitation and reformation should form part of sentencing. There is a compelling need for a studied scrutiny of sentencing, to address in particular the reformative aspect, while maintaining equality between different groups. Perhaps, much study is also required on the occurence of repeat offences, which could be attributable to certain groups. The nexus between particular types of offences and the offenders forming their own groups has to be taken note of and addressed. 35. The concept of intuitive sentencing is against the rule of law. A Judge can never have unrestrictive and unbridled discretion, based upon his conscience formed through his understanding of the society, without there being any guidelines in awarding a sentence. The need for adequate guidelines for exercising sentencing discretion, avoiding unwanted disparity, is of utmost importance. [2024] 5 S.C.R. 687 Sunita Devi v. The State of Bihar & Anr. 36. Courts do take into consideration the mitigating and aggravating circumstances. As we have dealt with illustratively, no research has been undertaken for constituting what are aggravating and mitigating circumstances. While it would be appropriate to follow ‘beyond reasonable doubt’ standard in adjudicating aggravating circumstances, the ‘balance of probability’ standard is required while construing mitigating circumstances. Courts may also be guided by the conduct of the convict during pre-trial stage, either under incarceration or otherwise. A report may well be called for from the designated authority. The ultimate idea is to eliminate discretion on the part of the Court, which obviously leads to disparity. 37. As we discuss the issue we have flagged, we understand that the issue is an extremely complex one and it is the duty of the States and the Union of India to deal with the situation by duly considering the three different modes discussed above. There has to be a conscious discussion and debate over this issue which might require constituting an appropriate Commission on Sentencing consisting of various experts and stakeholders. We illustratively suggest “the members from the legal fraternity, psychologists, sociologists, criminologists, executives and legislators”. Societal experience would come handy in coming to a correct conclusion. What we have at present is an imposition of a sentence by way of a legislation.