Challenge to the first show cause notice having failed and notwithstanding that the appellants did not require payment by threatening the first respondent with disconnection of supply, which the appellants were authorised as per section 24(1), the first respondent was certainly estopped from agitating the same issue of demand vide its second writ petition. 37. The issue of demand arising from the first respondent’s failure to consume the monthly minimum units may have been decided vide the dated 04th May, 2000 without assigning sufficient reasons or, for that matter, even wrongly. The learned Single Judge simply went by the terms of the contract between the parties without examining whether there was any substantial ground for the first respondent to urge that the jurisdictional fact for demanding payment of minimum guarantee charges did not exist and, hence, it was not liable to pay. Such had also been reiterated by the subsequent dated 14th February, 2001 of another learned Single Judge, again without due examination of what the case was on behalf of the first respondent and without assignment of any reason. However, does anything turn on it? The answer is an emphatic ‘NO’. As has been 28 [2004] Supp. 6 SCR 1104 : (2005) 1 SCC 787 364 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports held in Hope Plantations (supra) and Bhanu Kumar Jain (supra), a point even if wrongly decided binds the party against whom it is decided and the same point cannot be urged in a subsequent suit or proceeding at the same level. The crux of the matter is that the issue of liability accruing to the first respondent for non-payment of minimum guarantee charges had been decided previously and such decision, not being subjected to any appeal, had attained finality in the eyes of law estopping the first respondent from reagitating the issue. In our considered opinion, the second writ petition at the instance of the first respondent was not maintainable and, accordingly, ought not to have been entertained at all. 38. However, since the appellants accepted the of the learned Single Judge dated 16th July, 2009 and issued a fresh demand for a reduced amount and which has since been recovered by encashing the bank guarantee, we make no for changing the position flowing from the said . CONCLUSION 39. The inevitable result, on conjoint reading of all the judicial s on/in connection with the first writ petition together with the conduct of the first respondent, is that the s dated 04th May, 2000 and 14th February, 2001, so to say, judicially crystallised the liability of the first respondent to pay the minimum guarantee charges and such s having attained finality, bound the first respondent; and no amount of argument by the first respondent, either on the point of delay in raising the demand or a merit-based review of the action of the appellants, in the second writ petition was open to persuade the High Court hold in its (first respondent) favour by allowing the intra-court appeal.