The section further provides that if it can be proved that the offence committed by the company was (1) with consent; (2) in connivance of; (3) attributable to neglect on the part of any promoter, director, manager, secretary or any other officer of the company, then they shall be held guilty. 49. The case put forward by the appellant is that he, who is allegedly a director of A-20 is saved by the statutory language which provides that if a person could demonstrate and prove that the offence was committed without his knowledge, he would be exempt from prosecution. This exemption is recognized in other statutes as well. We may take support of pronouncements of this Court with reference to Sections 138 and 141 of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 188167 since the latter is similarly worded and phrased. “141. Offences by companies.— (1) If the person committing an offence under section 138 is a company, every person who, at the time the offence was committed, was in charge of, and was responsible to, the company for the conduct of the business of the company, as well as the company, shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly: Provided that nothing contained in this sub-section shall render any person liable to punishment if he proves that the offence was committed without his knowledge, or that he had exercised all due diligence to prevent the commission of such offence: Provided further that where a person is nominated as a Director of a company by virtue of his holding any office or employment in the Central Government or State 67 ‘NI Act’ for short 380 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Government or a financial corporation owned or controlled by the Central Government or the State Government, as the case may be, he shall not be liable for prosecution under this Chapter. (2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), where any offence under this Act has been committed by a company and it is proved that the offence has been committed with the consent or connivance of, or is attributable to, any neglect on the part of, any director, manager, secretary or other officer of the company, such director, manager, secretary or other officer shall also be deemed to be guilty of that offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly. Explanation.—For the purposes of this section, — (a) “company” means any body corporate and includes a firm or other association of individuals; and (b) “director”, in relation to a firm, means a partner in the firm.” 49.1 In S.M.S. Pharmaceuticals Ltd. v. Neeta Bhalla,68 a Bench of three Judges held that only a person who is in charge of the affairs of the company, i.e., a director, manager or secretary and alongside that was connected to the criminal act being committed, would be liable under this section. Relevant portion thereof reads thus: “10. …What is required is that the persons who are sought to be made criminally liable under Section 141 should be, at the time the offence was committed, in charge of and responsible to the company for the conduct of the business of the company.