The institution did not protect him, instead it put its full force behind respondent No. 7. Fortunately, the Tribunal set the record straight. 9. Ms. Vanshaja Shukla, counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant has submitted the financial loss that has occurred to the appellant and prayed for appropriate compensation. 10. Small excesses like overtaking the vehicle of one’s senior at a railway crossing may be an incident of indiscipline in defense services, but the balance and proportion that needs to be maintained between such an infraction and its punishment will always be at the core of good governance. If the balance is not maintained, the distinction between bad governance, impropriety, unfairness and inhuman treatment is not much. The Tribunal is right in holding that a small incident has unnecessarily grown beyond proportion. 2322 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 11. When the institutions that we build grow beyond proportion, officers act mechanically and many a times helplessly, ignore the simple and readily available remedies that are available in our normal lives. We would have thought that an incident like this would have ended if a senior officer had at the right time intervened and resolved the issue by taking into account the emotional aspect of the dispute. Perhaps a simple apology by respondent No. 7 would have gone a long way, but that did not happen, and we are now called upon to assess the economic value of the indignity and proceed to grant monetary compensation to him. We are aware of how insignificant the monetary value of loss of dignity could be, but legal remedies that they are, enable us to settle it only as a measure, a token of our concern and in recognition of a citizen’s identity and dignity. 12. Having considered the facts and circumstances of the case and having noted the specific and clear findings of the Tribunal, we direct the respondents to pay an amount of Rs. 1 lakh to the appellant towards compensation for having suffered an unnecessary and a long-drawn litigation that was foisted on him. The amount may be paid within a period of 30 days from the date of this . 13. The Civil Appeal is disposed of in the above-mentioned terms. Result of the case: Appeal disposed of. †Headnotes prepared by: Himanshu Rai, Hony. Associate Editor (Verified by: Kanu Agrawal, Adv.)