These are only guidelines and not a straitjacket rubric. These among such other similar factors become relevant. 8 [2011] 9 SCR 371 : (2011) 13 SCC 112 9 [2012] 7 SCR 607 : (2012) 7 SCC 288 556 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 33. This Court in Kiran Jyot Maini (Supra), while discussing the husband’s obligation to maintain the wife and the importance of his financial capacity in deciding the quantum, observed that: “26. Furthermore, the financial capacity of the husband is a critical factor in determining permanent alimony. The Court shall examine the husband›s actual income, reasonable expenses for his own maintenance, and any dependents he is legally obligated to support. His liabilities and financial commitments are also to be considered to ensure a balanced and fair maintenance award. The court must consider the husband’s standard of living and the impact of inflation and high living costs. Even if the husband claims to have no source of income, his ability to earn, given his education and qualifications, is to be taken into account. The courts shall ensure that the relief granted is fair, reasonable, and consistent with the standard of living to which the aggrieved party was accustomed. The court’s approach should be to balance all relevant factors to avoid maintenance amounts that are either excessively high or unduly low, ensuring that the dependent spouse can live with reasonable comfort post-separation.” 34. In the present case, it is a matter of record and an admitted fact that the respondent is unemployed while the appellant is a well accomplished banker who has worked in multiple senior roles at various banks over the years. We have perused the records of finances produced before us. Even though the records of the DEMAT accounts and the employment letters produced by the appellant are almost ten years ago or earlier, his financial position can be suitably ascertained from them. 35. It is admitted on record that the respondent is a home maker and has not been working in all these years, the son lives with her, who has now completed his B. Tech. course, and they reside in a house owned by the respondent’s mother. The appellant has paid for the son’s education as well as paid the interim maintenance as ed by the Family Court. The son is now major and has also completed his graduation. 36. The appellant is currently working as the Chief Executive Officer of Vision Bank in Dubai and his estimated salary is about AED 50,000 [2024] 12 S.C.R. 557 Parvin Kumar Jain v. Anju Jain per month which means that he is earning around Rs. 10 to 12 Lakhs per month. Though he has filed details of his DEMAT accounts from 2010, it is revealed that he had investments of around Rs.5 crores at that time. Further, he has three properties worth approximately Rs.2 crores, Rs.5 crores and Rs.10 crores, respectively. 37. During the period of cohabitation, the parties were initially residing in Mumbai when the appellant was working as a Foreign Exchange Executive with Global Trust Bank and subsequently in Chennai when the appellant changed his job.