Digital Supreme Court Reports jurisdiction on behalf of the Government by the forest officer or other person, generally or specially empowered by the Government in this behalf. (3) Every passed on appeal under this section shall be final. (4) Where the District Court, on appeal, decides that the claim or such part thereof as has been rejected should be admitted, the Forest Settlement Officer shall proceed to deal with it in like manner as if it has been in the first instance admitted by himself.” Section 15 of the A.P. Forest Act “15. Notification declaring Forest reserved:- (1) Upon the occurrence of the following events namely:- (a) the period fixed under Section 6 for preferring of an objection or a claim had elapsed, and every objection or claim made under that section was disposed of by the Forest Settlement Officer; and (b) in any such claim was made, the period limited by Section 13 for preferring an appeal from the passed on such claim had elapsed, and every appeal presented within such period was disposed of by the appellate authority; and (c) all proceedings mentioned in Section 10 were taken and all lands, if any, to be included in the proposed forest, which the Forest Settlement Officer had, under Section 10, elected to acquire under the Land Acquisition Act, 1894, had become vested in the Government under Section 16 of that Act; the Government may publish a notification specifying definitely according to the boundary marks erected or otherwise, the limits of the forest which it is intended to reserve and declaring the same to be reserved from a [2024] 5 S.C.R. 95 The State of Telangana & Ors. v. Mohd. Abdul Qasim (Died) Per LRs. date to be fixed by such notification and from the date so fixed, such forest shall be deemed to be a reserved forest. (2) Copies of the notification shall also be published in the District Gazette, if any, and in the manner provided for the proclamation under Section 6.” Section 16 of the A.P. Forest Act “16. Extinction of rights not claimed:- Rights in respect of which no claim was preferred under Section 6 within the period fixed under that section shall stand extinguished on the publication of the notification under Section 15 unless, before the publication of such notification the person claiming them has convinced the Forest Settlement Officer that he had sufficient cause for not preferring such claim within that period in which case the Forest Settlement Officer shall proceed to dispose of the claim in the manner herein before provided.” 7. Section 2 of the A.P. Forest Act, defines a “Forest Officer”, to mean a vast category of officers. Such a forest officer is appointed to perform any function of a forest officer under the A.P. Forest Act, or any rule or made thereunder. Clause (f) of Section 2 clarifies that such Forest Officer does not include a Forest Settlement Officer appointed under Clause (c) of sub-section (1) of Section 4, thus, making a distinction between a Forest Officer and a Forest Settlement Officer.