Therefore, having a specific portion carved out in a larger University set-up would not be the defining characteristic of the University. In fact, such a dedicated Faculty in a University would indicate the wide-ranging nature of studies the institution. Therefore, the regular bench must examine if the AMU Act, 1920 [and how it stood after the advent of the Constitution], is an enacting establishing an institution which was predominantly minority in character. l. ‘Incorporated’ or ‘estaBlIshed’ By or under a statute 219. At this stage, this Court has to adjudicate another issue that touches upon the question of establishment. It has been argued that the 1920 Act was a mere legislative “veneer” or a token recognition to an already existing entity. On the other hand, it was countered by the argument that there is a difference between a body which is created under a statute as opposed to a body which the statute claims to itself ‘establish’. On the basis of the same, it is urged that since the AMU owed its very existence to a statute, it was established by the statute only. 220. In this regard, the Court needs to clarify that a legislation [more so a legislation in the pre-independence era] can never be considered to be an inconsequential veneer or a mere recognition/token. A legislation is the will of the sovereign reflected and enacted through a dedicated body. A legislation is always of some consequence and cannot be presumed to be of tertiary importance. 5 Oxford Centre for Hindu Studies (OCHS), Oxford Centre for Islamic Studies, Delhi University’s Centre for Hindu Studies 2018 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 221. Separately, the parties defending the of the Azeez Basha [supra], place heavy reliance on the in Dalco Engineering Pvt. Ltd. v. Satish Prabhakar Padhye, (2010) 4 SCC 378, and others6 to assert that the use of the term ‘established’ in the phrase ‘established by or under an Act’ in any statutory enactment creates a deeming fiction which would entail the coming into existence of the entity so established a result of the statutory enactment alone. 222. While testing this argument, it is important to note that the in Dalco [supra], was dealing with entities and enactments such as the State Bank of India Act, 1955 or the Life Insurance Corporation Act, 1956 or the State Financial Corporations Act, 1951. The same principle cannot ipso facto be lifted and applied in the context of Article 30, especially when it concerns the fundamental rights of citizens. 223. Crucially, as pointed out during arguments, there are other statutes, enacted by the State Legislatures, which recognise the minority character of the institutions through various provisions. In the said statutes, the ‘establishment’ is done by and under the statute and at the same time, the establishment of the previous institution is recognised to be done by the minority community. For example, The Sam Higginbottom University of Agriculture, Technology and Sciences, Uttar Pradesh Act, 2016, in this preamble provides as under : “An Act to establish and incorporate a Teaching, Research and Extension University with a view to upgrade and reconstitute the existing Sam Higginbottom Institute of Agriculture, Technology and Sciences (Deemed-to-be- University), Allahabad, established and administered by the Ecumenical Minority Christian Society namely the Sam Higginbottom Educational and Charitable Society, Higginbottom House, 4- Agricultural Institute, Allahabad-211007, Registered under the Society Registration Act, 1860 in the State of Uttar Pradesh, and to provide for natters connected therewith or incidental thereto,” 6 Sukhdev Singh v. Bhagatram Sardar Singh Raghuvanshi, (1975) 1 SCC 421; Executive Committee of Vaish Degree College v. Lakshmi Narain, (1976) 2 SCC 58; S.S. Dhanoa v. MCD, (1981) 3 SCC 431; CIT v. Canara Bank, (2018) 9 SCC 322 [2024] 11 S.C.R.