The petitioner has also filed separate rejoinder affidavits. Submissions on behalf of the petitioner: - 18. Mr. Iqbal Syed, learned senior counsel appearing for the petitioner advanced the following pertinent submissions: - 18.1 That the dated 8th December, 2023 passed by this Court was explicit to the effect that the petitioner was to be released on bail in event of his arrest. No liberty was ever granted by this Court to the Investigating Officer to seek police custody remand of the petitioner while he was under the protective umbrella of the interim anticipatory bail passed by this Court. 18.2 That the SLP seeking anticipatory bail filed by the petitioner was still pending consideration before this Court and thus, if at all, the Investigating Officer desired to seek police custody remand of the petitioner on the alleged ground of non-cooperation in investigation, then the appropriate procedure would have been to move an application before this Court to seek such liberty. 18.3 That the Investigating Officer had already accepted the bail bonds of the petitioner on 11th December, 2023 and hence, there could not have been any occasion for grant of police custody remand of the petitioner because such course of action resulted into fresh arrest of the petitioner which is clearly in teeth of the passed by this Court. 18.4 That a pertinent objection was raised before the 6th ACJM(contemnor-respondent No. 7) that there was no scope for granting police custody remand of the petitioner in view of this Court’s , but the 6th ACJM No. 6(contemnor- 256 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports respondent No. 7) totally glossed over the interim passed by this Court and granted 3 days’ police custody remand of the petitioner by assigning a totally flimsy justification that this Court had not precluded the Investigating Officer from seeking police custody remand of the petitioner nor was the Magistrate prohibited from exercising such power. In support of the submission that there was no scope to remand the petitioner to police custody, learned senior counsel for the petitioner placed reliance on the passed by this Court in the case of Siddhram Satlingappa Mhetre v. State of Maharashtra.1 18.5 He urged that in spite of the interim of anticipatory bail granted by this Court being in currency, the petitioner was not released from custody even at the end of the police remand period, and rather, he was compelled to file a regular bail application under Section 437 CrPC to which the learned Assistant Public Prosecutor(APP) objected. However, the application was allowed, and the bail bonds of the petitioner were accepted, and he was released from custody on 18th December, 2023 which aggravates the contemptuous acts of the contemnor-respondent No. 7 because the petitioner was kept in illegal custody for more than 48 hours. As per learned senior counsel, it is a clear case of the petitioner being kept in illegal custody for a period of 6 days in teeth of the interim granted by this Court and that too, during pendency of the special leave petition.