Digital Supreme Court Reports SBCC State Biotechnology Co-ordination Committee SOP Standard Operating Procedures TEC Technical Expert Committee UK United Kingdom UNEP United Nations Environment Programme USA United States of America Preface: The ideas drawn from sacred texts of the world have proffered to worship and respect nature and impel mankind to preserve the same. This, in essence, is the doctrine of intergenerational equity. (i) The verses in Srimad Bhagavata Mahapurana depict nature and its creations to embody the divine, as it states ‘Ether, air, fire, water, earth, planets, all creatures, trees and plants, rivers, and seas, they all are organs of God’s body, remembering this, a devotee respects all species”. (ii) In all other faiths practised in India, the earth is deemed to be the sacred creation of God. (iii) Nature and all her elements are considered sacred. Human beings are said to be composed of five elements of nature, which teach lessons and inspire strength in the formulation of our character: “Earth teaches us patience, love; Air teaches us mobility, liberty; Fire teaches us warmth, courage; Sky teaches us equality, broad-mindedness; Water teaches us purity, cleanliness.” 1.1 Faced with the widespread destruction of the environment, people everywhere are coming together to understand that we cannot continue to use the benefits of the earth as we have in the past. A new ecological awareness is beginning to emerge which, rather than being downplayed, ought to be encouraged to develop into concrete programs and initiatives. 2. This Court, in State of Bihar vs. Murad Ali Khan, (1988) 4 SCC 655 (“Murad Ali Khan”) speaking through Venkatachaliah, J. (as the learned Chief Justice then was) observed that “the tragedy of [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1961 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. the predicament of the civilised man is that, ‘Every source from which man has increased his power on earth has been used to diminish the prospects of his successors. All his progress is being made at the expense of damage to the environment which he cannot repair and cannot foresee’.” 3. This Court in M.C. Mehta vs. Kamal Nath, (1997) 1 SCC 388 (“M.C. Mehta”), speaking through Kuldip Singh, J. observed that, “… the executive acting under the doctrine of public trust cannot abdicate the natural resources and convert them into private ownership, or for commercial use. The aesthetic use and the pristine glory of the natural resources, the environment and the ecosystems of our country cannot be permitted to be eroded for private, commercial or any other use unless the courts find it necessary, in good faith, for the public good and in public interest to encroach upon the said resources.” 4. These writ petitions, filed in public interest in the years 2004 and 2005, have been pending since then. However, IA No.47 of 2016 and IA No. 122182 of 2021 were filed by the petitioner (Aruna Rodrigues) in Writ Petition (Civil) No.260 of 2005, leading to the hearing of the said applications and consequently, the writ petitions also.