They are required to procure the arrack from the warehouse or depot on payment of the issue price fixed by the Excise Commissioner as per Rule 5(1) of the 1967 Rules. Rule 2 makes it very clear that no arrack in retail vend shall be sold except in sealed bottles or in sealed polythene sachets obtained from either a warehouse or a depot. For such retail vending, Rule 3 of the 1967 Rules requires the excise contractor to construct a counter in the shop. The right to retail vend of liquor is granted either by tender or by auction or by a combined process of tender- cum-auction etc. As per Rule 17 of the 1987 Rules, the price to be paid by the lessee for the right of retail vend of arrack to the government for the supply of bottled arrack shall be fixed by the Commissioner with prior approval of the government. In so far the retail price is concerned, Rule 4 of the 1967 Rules says that the excise contractor can sell the arrack at a price within the range of [2024] 7 S.C.R. 305 The Excise Commissioner Karnataka & Anr. v. Mysore Sales International Ltd. & Ors. minimum floor price and maximum ceiling price that may be fixed by the Excise Commissioner. 14. Having broadly surveyed the statutory framework of the business of arrack in the State of Karnataka, let us now deal with Section 206C of the Income Tax Act. For ready reference, the said provision is extracted hereunder: 206-C. Profits and gains from the business of trading in alcoholic liquor, forest produce, scrap, etc.—(1) Every person, being a seller shall, at the time of debiting of the amount payable by the buyer to the account of the buyer or at the time of receipt of such amount from the said buyer in cash or by the issue of a cheque or draft or by any other mode, whichever is earlier, collect from the buyer of any goods of the nature specified in column (2) of the Table below, a sum equal to the percentage, specified in the corresponding entry in column (3) of the said Table, of such amount as income tax: TABLE SI. Nature of Goods Percentage No. (i) Alcoholic liquor for human Ten percent consumption (other than India-made foreign liquor) and tendu leaves (ii) Timber obtained under a forest lease Fifteen percent (iii) Timber obtained by any mode other Five percent than under a forest lease (iv) Any other forest produce not being Fifteen timber or tendu leaves percent Provided that where the Assessing Officer, on an application made by the buyer, gives a certificate in the prescribed form that to the best of his belief any of the goods referred to in the aforesaid Table are to be utilized for the purposes of manufacturing, processing or producing articles or things and not for trading purposes, the provisions of this sub-section shall not apply so long as the certificate is in force. 306 [2024] 7 S.C.R.