Governor to nominate persons to be represented in the Corporation. Section 3 being central to our consideration, we will extract a substantial part of it for ready reference:- “3. Establishment of the Corporation (1) With effect from such date as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint, there shall be a Corporation charged with the municipal Government of Delhi, to be known as the Municipal Corporation of Delhi. (2) The Corporation shall be a body corporate with the name aforesaid having perpetual succession and a common seal with power, subject to the provisions of this Act, to acquire, hold and dispose of property and may by the said name sue and be sued. (3) (a) The Corporation shall be composed of the councillors; (b) the following persons shall be represented in the Corporation, namely:— (i) ten persons, who are not less than 25 years of age and who have special knowledge or experience in municipal administration, to be nominated by the Administrator: Provided that the persons nominated under this sub- clause shall not have the right to vote in the meetings of the Corporation; (ii) members of the House of the People representing constituencies which comprise wholly or partly the area of the Corporation and the members of the Council of States registered as electors within the area of the Corporation; (iii) as nearly as possible one-fifth of the members of the Legislative Assembly of the National Capital Territory of Delhi representing constituencies which comprise wholly or partly the area of the Corporation to be nominated by [2024] 8 S.C.R. 223 Government of NCT of Delhi v. Office of Lieutenant Governor of Delhi the Speaker of that Legislative Assembly, by rotation, every year: Provided that while nominating such members, by rotation, the Speaker shall ensure that as far as possible all the members are given an opportunity of being represented in the Corporation at least once during the duration of the Corporation; (iv) the Chairpersons of the Committees, if any, constituted under sections 39, 40 and 45, if they are not councillors. (4) Councillors shall be chosen by direct election on the basis of adult suffrage from various wards into which Delhi shall be divided in accordance with the provisions of this Act ***.” 18. The Parliamentary enactment on the subject of Municipality for Delhi, being the DMC Act as amended in 1993, the legislative power of the Legislative Assembly of NCTD to make laws is to be considered. The ‘Sui Generis’ status of NCTD has been analysed and declared by both the Constitution Bench s. In the 2018 Constitution Bench on NCT, Delhi, Justice Dipak Misra, speaking for the majority held: “284.15. However, if Parliament makes law in respect of certain subjects falling in the State List or the Concurrent List, the executive action of the State must conform to the law made by Parliament.” 19. A similar observation is made by Justice D.Y. Chandrachud in his concurring . In Para 316 of the , it is observed that; “316.