Only the chapter on “Women Prisoners” provides that “[n]o classification of prisoners shall be allowed on grounds of socioeconomic status, caste or class”.266 This is concerning, as the Manual was prepared in 2016, when prison manuals in different States mandated caste-based division of prisoners, as indicated in our analysis in the previous section. The Manual of 2016 therefore should have adopted a specific provision prohibiting the classification of prisoners on the basis of caste for all prisoners, as it does in the case of women prisoners. 204. Third, the Manual does not prohibit division of work on the basis of caste, except in cooking. Para 2.12.4 provides that “Management of kitchen or cooking of food on caste or religious basis shall be prohibited in prisons”. Similarly, for women prisons, para 26.45 provides “Management of kitchens or cooking food on caste or religious basis should be strictly banned in prisons for women”. In effect, prohibition of caste discrimination in kitchens shall also apply to allotment of work to cooks.267 However, the Manual does not prohibit discrimination on the allotment of work other than cooking. As analysed, various prison manuals in different States specify different work to people on the basis of caste. The Model Manual 2016 should have taken into account such practices and provided specifically for their prohibition. 205. Instead, the Manual empowers the jail superintendent “for the execution of all s regarding the labour of prisoners” and that they “shall assign to each prisoner his work on the recommendation of the classifying Committee constituted in each Central Prison for 266 Ibid, Para 26.04 Note (ii) 267 See Paras 6.30 and 6.31. 622 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the purpose”.268 Furthermore, the medical officer shall “examine all newly admitted prisoners and record in the admission register and medical sheets particulars regarding their health, and the kind of labour they can perform in view of their health conditions”.269 If the medical opinion states that “the health of any prisoner suffers from employment of any kind or class of labour, he shall record such opinion in the prisoner’s sheet and the prisoner shall not be employed on that labour”.270 Besides, the Manual penalizes any resistance by the prisoners to perform labour allotted to them. “Wilfully disabling himself from labour” is listed as a prison offence.271 206. The above provisions prima facie may be essential to maintain prison discipline, but absent any provision prohibiting caste-based allotment of work, these provisions may be used to target prisoners from marginalized castes. It may create a scenario where a prisoner from a marginalized caste may not be able to deny the work allotted to them on the basis of their caste, which would also be violative of the Articles 21 and 23 of the Constitution of India, which protects individual dignity and prohibits forced labour. In this regard, we may again refer to Sunil Batra (II)272 which held that “allotment of degrading labour” in prisons is “an infraction of liberty or life in its wider sense and cannot be sustained” unless the procedure under Article 21 is satisfied.