1993 Bijoy Kumar Moni v. Paresh Manna & Anr. the case of P. Sarvana Kumar v. S.P. Vijaya Kumar reported in 2022 SCC Online Mad 1387. The said decision was rendered in a petition filed under Section 482 of the Cr.P.C. for quashing of the private complaint filed against the petitioner therein for the offence under Section 138 of the NI Act. The petitioner therein, who was arraigned as the second accused in the complaint, had filed the petition seeking quashing of the complaint qua him on the ground that the cheque, which came to be dishonoured, was signed by him in his capacity as an authorized signatory acting on behalf of the owner of a proprietorix concern, and thus he could not be said to have drawn the cheque on an account maintained by him, and the liability under Section 138 could only be affixed on the owner of the proprietorix concern. It was also contended by the petitioner therein that the provisions of Section 141 of the NI Act would have no applicability to a case involving a proprietorship concern as the same is not owned by a collection of individuals but a single person. 64. The High Court while rejecting the contention of the petitioner therein, adverted to the object of Section 138 of the NI Act to hold that the authorized signatory could be said to be the drawer of the cheque as he was “maintaining” the account held in the name of the proprietorix concern and thus could be held liable under Section 138 of the NI Act. 65. We find it difficult to subscribe to the view taken by the High Court in the aforesaid decision. The High Court referred to an extract from the 11th Edition of the commentary on the NI Act by Bhashyam and Adiga wherein the liability of the principal for the acts of the agents has been discussed and erroneously relied upon it to attribute liability to the petitioner therein, who was the agent acting on behalf of the proprietorix concern. 66. The position of law as has been settled by this Court and reiterated in a legion of decisions is that it is only the drawer of the cheque who can be held liable for an offence under Section 138 of the NI Act. Further, this Court has also declared through several pronouncements on the subject that an authorised signatory acting on behalf of the principal cannot be said to be the “drawer” of the cheque “on an account maintained by him with a banker” under Section 138. 67. It is also pertinent to note that the High Court in the aforesaid decision also referred to the decision of this Court in Raghu Lakshminarayanan v. Fine Tubes reported in (2007) 5 SCC 103 1994 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports wherein it was categorically held by this Court that Section 141 of the NI Act will have no application to proprietorship concerns as they are owned by individuals and do not have a separate corporate identity.