b) Whether the plaintiff is entitled for the share in the suit property? 8.1 It was held that the plaintiff has never taken any steps to revoke various transactions that have taken place in regard to the suit properties. He was also unaware about the real possession of the properties in question. Further, it was observed that the plaintiff failed to prove dispossession within a period of twelve years, i.e. the time period within which the claim of adverse possession has to be made. 8.2 In the above terms, the and decree of the Trial Court was confirmed and the appeal was dismissed. PROCEEDING BEFORE THE HIGH COURT 9. The High Court under Second Appeal framed the following substantial questions of law: a) Whether in law the courts below are right in failing to see that under Section 19 of the Transfer of Property Act, a vested interest is not defeated by the death of the transferee before the possession. b) Whether in law the courts below are not wrong in omitting to see that the matter in issue would be squarely covered by the illustrations (i) and (iii) of Section 119 of the Indian Succession Act? c) Whether in law the courts below are right in failing to see that a limited interest owner could not prescribe title by adverse possession as held in AIR 1961 SCC 1442? 9.1 Having taken note of various decisions, the learned Single Judge held that the interest vested in Saroja was full and not life interest. Therefore, upon her death,, the interest does not revert to the settlor. In other words, that Saroja died before her interest stood fructified, is an incorrect statement. It is only the [2024] 2 S.C.R. 335 Vasantha (Dead) Thr. Lr. v. Rajalakshmi @ Rajam (Dead) Thr.Lrs. right of enjoyment that stood postponed till the life interest of Raghavulu Naidu and Munusamy Naidu. 9.2 On the question of limitation, it was observed that the documents executed between Thayammal, her sons and subsequently, Pavanummal and Vasantha, were only in respect of life interest i.e. a limited right. The other two deeds of settlement executed after the First Settlement Deed are against or beyond the competency of the executants and therefore, not binding on the plaintiff. That being the case the requirement of twelve years within which to initiate a suit, does not arise. Further, it was held that since, in the suit, the life estate holder has been impleaded in the suit and Gopalakrishnan had the option of filing the suit even after her lifetime, the same is not barred by limitation. 9.3 It was in such terms that it was held that according to the First Settlement Deed the plaintiff will be entitled to half share of the property after the lifetime of Vasantha, a life estate holder. SUBMISSIONS 10. We have heard at length, Mr. Dama Seshadri Naidu, learned senior counsel for the Appellants and Mr. V. Ramasubramanian, learned counsel for the Respondents. The main contentions urged have been recorded as under:- A. APPELLANTS (i) It is submitted that all questions raised in this Appeal are pure questions of law and in accordance with Yeswant Deorao Deshmukh v. Walchand Ramchand Kothari (3-Judge Bench)8 and National Textile Corporation Ltd. v. Nareshkumar Badrikumar Jagad (2-Judge Bench)9, a question of law can be raised at any stage.