1710 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports Explanation.-- For the purposes of this section, the pendency of a suit or proceeding shall be deemed to commence from the date of the presentation of the plaint or the institution of the proceeding in a Court of competent jurisdiction, and to continue until the suit or proceeding has been disposed of by a final decree or and complete satisfaction or discharge of such decree or has been obtained, or has become unobtainable by reason of the expiration of any period of limitation prescribed for the execution thereof by any law for the time being in force.” 158. The following conditions ought to be fulfilled for the doctrine of lis pendens to apply: - (i) There must be a pending suit or proceeding; (ii) The suit or proceeding must be pending in a competent court; (iii) The suit or proceeding must not be collusive; (iv) The right to immovable property must be directly and specifically in question in the suit or proceeding; (v) The property must be transferred by a party to the litigation; and (vi) The alienation must affect the rights of any other party to the dispute. 159. In short, the doctrine of lis pendens, which Section 52 of the TPA encapsulates, bars the transfer of a suit property during the pendency of litigation. The only exception to the principle is when it is transferred under the authority of the court and on terms imposed by it. Where one of the parties to the suit transfers the suit property (or a part of it) to a third-party, the latter is bound by the result of the proceedings even if he did not have notice of the suit or proceeding. 160. In the landmark decision of the English Court of Chancery in Bellamy v. Sabine reported in (157) 1 De G&J 566, Lord Turner underscored and explained the rationale of the principle underlying lis pendens and observed that if any alienation or material change to the subject matter during the pendency of a proceeding were permitted to prevail, it would defeat the very course of such proceedings before the courts. The relevant observations read as under: - [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1711 Celir LLP v. Mr. Sumati Prasad Bafna & Ors. “It is, as I think, a doctrine common to the courts both of Law and Equity and rests, as I apprehend, upon this foundation that it would plainly be impossible that any action or suit could be brought to a successful termination, if alienations pendente lite were permitted to prevail. The plaintiff would be liable in every case to be defeated by the defendants alienating before the or decree, and would be driven to commence his proceedings de novo, subject again to be defeated by the same course of proceedings.” (Emphasis supplied) 161. In Jayaram Mudaliar v. Ayyaswami reported in AIR 1973 SC 569 this Court explained that where any proceeding in respect of a property is pending, the doctrine of lis pendens vests the courts with the control or dominion over such subject-matter so that no party or person may remove the subject-matter outside of the power of the court to deal with it in accordance with law and thereby render the proceedings infructuous.