Based only on the finding that oral partition was proved, the High Court allowed the second appeal and after setting aside the s of the Courts below decreed the suit. 11. Heard counsel for the appellants. Despite service of notice, no one appeared on behalf of the respondents. 12. The two sale deeds relate to different properties and not to survey number in question. Whether any partition with respect to the survey number in question had taken place or not, is not borne out from the record. The suit property was never recorded in the name of the plaintiffs or for that matter, husband of plaintiff no.1, at any time. The will which was the basis of the claim of the plaintiff, had not been found to be proved in accordance to law. The Trial Court and the First Appellate Court had dealt with the documents Exh.A-4 and 86 [2024] 1 S.C.R. DIGITAL SUPREME COURT REPORTS B-3, the two sale deeds, and found that these were not sufficient to prove the oral partition or in any manner establish the oral partition with respect to the survey number in question. 13. Interestingly although the plaintiffs set up a case that the land in suit was coming from Avinashi Gounder but on record, two pattas were filed which establish that the survey number in question had been allotted in the name of plaintiff no.1 and eight others jointly with respect to which there was no partition. This fact had been admitted by the plaintiffs in their deposition. All these aspects had been considered by the Trial Court and the First Appellate Court but the High Court failed to consider the oral as also the documentary evidence. Only on the basis of the two sale deeds and one mortgage deed, which relate to different piece and parcels of land, the High Court recorded a perverse finding that oral partition had taken place. It also did not deal with the other findings recorded by the Courts below. 14. In view of the above discussion and on the findings recorded above, the impugned cannot be sustained as it not only does not conform to the scope of Section 100 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 but also as it was perverse on appreciated evidence, and also ignoring material evidence. 15. The appeal is, accordingly, allowed. The impugned and of the High Court is set aside and that of the Trial Court and the First Appellate Court is confirmed. The suit of the respondent- plaintiff stands dismissed. 16. There shall be no as to costs. Headnotes prepared by: Nidhi Jain Result of the case: Appeal allowed.