8. We need not enter into the other issues as we are convinced that the suit was barred by limitation. The limitation under Article 54 of the Limitation Act, 1963 for instituting a suit for specific performance of a contract would be three years from the date fixed for the performance, or, if no such date is fixed, when the plaintiff has notice that performance is refused. Article 54 of the Limitation Act, 1963 is reproduced hereunder: “ *** 54. For Specific Three Years The date fixed for the performance, performance of or, if no such date is fixed, when a contract the plaintiff has notice that performance is refused. 9. Coming to the facts of the present case, we find that in the agreement dated 17.12.1989, it is specifically mentioned that the sale deed would be executed within one month from the date of the said agreement. 506 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports The period of one month would expire on 16.01.1990, and once there is a specific date fixed for performance, the limitation period would be three years from the said date, which would expire on 16.01.1993. The Trial Court thus held that the suit was barred by limitation as it was filed in September 1993. 10. The First Appellate Court and the High Court went on the consideration that the agreement further recorded that this agreement would remain valid for a period of five years from today’s date i.e. date of the execution of the agreement to sell. Placing reliance on this clause, in our considered opinion, is totally irrelevant. The performance was to take place within one month. The validity of the agreement is something different and does not change the date of performance. What was the reason for incorporating this clause of validating the agreement for five years is not spelled out in the agreement, but in any case, it does not change the date fixed for the performance. 11. As such, the suit was liable to be dismissed on the ground of limitation alone. The appeal is thus liable to be allowed. Therefore, we have not entered into the other issues regarding the agreement to sell being valid or invalid. 12. Accepting that the plaintiffs-respondents paid an amount of Rs. 80,000/- to the defendant-appellant, and there being no relief claimed for refund of this money, in to do complete justice between the parties, we feel it appropriate that the said amount of Rs. 80,000/- be returned to the plaintiffs along with 12% simple interest by the appellants within three months from today. 13. The appeal is accordingly allowed. The impugned is set aside, and the suit is dismissed. However, it is directed that the appellants shall return the advance amount of Rs. 80,000/- with interest at the rate of 12 % per annum from the date it was paid to the appellants till the date it is paid. There shall however be no as to costs. Result of the case: Appeal Allowed.