Even though the Insurer had given the option to the Insured to indicate as to whether the policy is to be dated back and the insured indicated that the policy should be dated back to 10.05.1989 and did pay the premium for that period, thereby the risk under the policy can be said to have commenced with effect from 10.5.1989 but the date of the policy still remains the date on which the policy was issued i.e. 31.03.1990. The death of the life assured having occurred as a result of suicide committed by the assured before the expiry of three years from the 4 (1998) 7 SCC 348 [2024] 1 S.C.R. 71 RELIANCE LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY LTD. & ANR. v. JAYA WADHWANI date of the policy, the terms contained in Clause 4-B of the policy would be attracted and, therefore, the liability of the Corporation would be limited to the sum equal to the total amount of premium paid under the policy without interest and not the entire sum for which the life had been insured. The Forums under the Consumer Protection Act committed gross error in construing Clause 4-B of the policy and giving the same meaning to the two expressions in the aforesaid Clause 4-B namely “the date on which the risk under the policy has commenced” and “the date of the policy”. The construction given by us to the provisions contained in Clause 4-B get support, if the proviso to Clause 4-B is looked into. Under the proviso, if the life assured commits suicide before expiry of one year reckoned from the date of the policy, then the provisions of the Clause under the heading “suicide” printed on the back of the policy would apply. In a case therefore where a policy is dated back for one year prior to the date of the issue of the policy, the proviso contained in Clause 4-B cannot be operated at all. When parties had agreed to the terms of the contract, it is impermissible to hold that a particular term was never intended to be acted upon. The proviso to Clause 4-B will have its full play if the expression “the date of the policy” is interpreted to mean the date on which the policy was issued and not the date on which the risk under the policy has commenced. In the aforesaid premises, we are of the considered opinion that under Clause 4-B of the policy the date of the policy is the date on which the policy had been issued and not the date on which the risk under the policy had commenced by way of allowing it to be dated back. In view of our aforesaid construction to Clause 4-B, in the case in hand, the respondent in law would be entitled to only the sum equal to the total amount of premium paid under the policy without any interest inasmuch as the death of the life assured has occurred before the expiry of three years from the date of the policy, i.e., 31.3.1990… ………” 72 [2024] 1 S.C.R.