(b) when appointed for any part of the State or the Union territory, of such other rank as the State Government or the Central Government, as the case may be, may deem fit. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ” [2024] 9 S.C.R. 405 Ravinder Kumar v. State of Haryana 11. Now, coming back to Section 30, it is a very drastic provision which grants power to the Appropriate Authority or any officer authorized by it to enter a Genetic Laboratory, a Genetic Clinic, or any other place to examine the record found therein, to seize the same and even seal the same. The first part of sub-section (1) of Section 30 safeguards these centres or laboratories from arbitrary search and seizure action. The safeguard is that search and seizure can be authorized only if the Appropriate Authority has a reason to believe that an offence under the 1994 Act has been committed or is being committed. 12. The question is what meaning can be assigned to the expression “has reason to believe”. Section 26 of the Indian Penal Code defines the expression “reason to believe”, which reads thus: “26. “Reason to believe”.— A person is said to have “reason to believe” a thing, if he has sufficient cause to believe that thing but not otherwise.” In the case of Aslam Mohammad Merchant v. Competent Authority & Ors.,1 this Court had an occasion to interpret the same expression. In paragraph 41, this Court held thus: “41. It is now a trite law that whenever a statute provides for “reason to believe”, either the reasons should appear on the face of the notice or they must be available on the materials which had been placed before him.” However, interpretation of the expression will depend on the context in which it is used in a particular legislation. In some statutes like the present one, there is a power to initiate action under the statute if the authority has reason to believe that certain facts exist. The test is whether a reasonable man, under the circumstances placed before him, would be propelled to take action under the statute. Considering the object of the 1994 Act, the expression “reason to believe” cannot be construed in a manner which would create a procedural roadblock. The reason is that once there is any material placed before the Appropriate Authority based on which action of search is required to be undertaken, if the action is delayed, the very object of passing s of search would be frustrated. Therefore, 1 [2008] 10 SCR 332 : (2008) 14 SCC 186 406 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports what is needed is that the complaint or other material received by the appropriate authority or its members should be immediately made available to all its members. After examining the same, the Appropriate authority must expeditiously decide whether there is a reason to believe that an offence under the 1994 Act has been or is being committed.