This Court considered the power available to this Court under Article 136 of the Constitution of India and held that such a Special Leave Petition is maintainable. It was held that Article 136 of the Constitution of India neither confers on anyone the right to invoke jurisdiction of the Supreme Court nor inhibits anyone from invoking its jurisdiction and that the said power is actually vested in the Supreme Court. It was also held that the exercise of the power under Article 136 by the Supreme Court is circumscribed by any limitation as to ‘who may invoke it’. Paragraph 12 of the decision in Ramakant Rai’s case is relevant in the contextual situation and it read thus:- “12. A doubt has been raised about the competence of a private party as distinguished from the State, to invoke the jurisdiction of this Court under Article 136 of the Constitution of India (in short “the Constitution”) against a of acquittal by the High Court. We do not see any substance 13 [2003] Supp. 4 SCR 17 : (2003) 12 SCC 395 656 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports in the doubt. The appellate power vested in this Court under Article 136 of the Constitution is not to be confused with the ordinary appellate power exercised by appellate courts and Appellate Tribunals under specific statutes. It is a plenary power, “exercisable outside the purview of ordinary law” to meet the pressing demands of justice (See Durga Shankar Mehta v. Raghuraj Singh [AIR 1954 SC 520]). Article 136 of the Constitution neither confers on anyone the right to invoke the jurisdiction of this Court nor inhibits anyone from invoking the Court’s jurisdiction. The power is vested in this Court but the right to invoke the Court’s jurisdiction is vested in no one. The exercise of the power of this Court is not circumscribed by any limitation as to who may invoke it. Where a of acquittal by the High Court has led to a serious miscarriage of justice, this Court cannot refrain from doing its duty and abstain from interfering on the ground that a private party and not the State has invoked the Court’s jurisdiction. We do not have slightest doubt that we can entertain appeals against s of acquittal by the High Court at the instance of interested private parties also. The circumstance that the Criminal Procedure Code, 1973 (in short “the Code”) does not provide for an appeal to the High Court against an of acquittal by a subordinate court, at the instance of a private party, has no relevance to the question of the power of this Court under Article 136. We may mention that in Mohan Lal v. Ajit Singh [(1978) 3 SCC 279 this Court interfered with a of acquittal by the High Court at the instance of a private party. An apprehension was expressed that if appeals against s of acquittal at the instance of private parties are permitted there may be a flood of appeals.