KPCL was allocated three coal blocks by the Government of India under the Western Coalfield Limited command area situated in the State of Maharashtra for the development/operation of coal mines dedicated to feeding BTPS. 3.1.2 The JVA was executed between KPCL and EMTA on 13th September, 2002 which gave birth to the Joint Venture Company14 namely, M/s KECML. The shareholding of EMTA in the JVC was to the extent of 76 per cent and that of KPCL was 24 per cent. In the JVA, it was agreed that there would be five directors from each of the two companies and the nominee of KPCL would be the Chairman of KECML who would have the right to cast vote. The relevant clauses of the JVA referred to and relied upon by the parties are extracted hereinbelow: “AGREEMENT ON CAPTIVE COAL MINING PROJECT THROUGH A JOINT VENTURE xxxxx “COAL” means washed coal with guaranteed values as per article-6 clause 3 C and satisfies quality parameter laid down in Annexure-1 attached to this agreement. xxxxx 10 In short ‘JVA’ 11 In short ‘KPCL’ 12 In short ‘EMTA’ 13 In short ‘BTPS’ 14 In short ‘JVC’ 1162 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “KPCL Coal Mines” means the coal mine(s) to be allotted to KPCL by Ministry of Coal, Government of India in which mining rights shall be given to the Company and which shall be developed/operated through the Company for captive use of KPCL. Xxxxx “GCV (ADB)” Gross Calorific value on ‘Air dried basis’ in kcal/kg determined through a Bomb Calorimeter as measured at BTPS as per IS 1350(part -I) xxxxx “D Grade Coal” means “Non-long flame coal” having Useful Heat Value(UHV) in the range of 4200 to 4940 Kcal/Kg as per GOI notification. xxxxx ARTICLE 2 THE COMPANY AND ITS OBJECTIVES 1. The Parties of this agreement shall form and incorporate the Company as a Public Limited Company under the Companies Act, 1956 having its registered office at Bangalore. 2. The Company shall be named KARNATAKA EMTA COAL MINES LIMITED; or in case such name is not available, any other name which may be mutually acceptable to the Parties. 3. The main object of the Company shall be to develop the captive coal mines of KPCL and produce coal from KPCL coal mines and to supply, transport and deliver such coal wholly and exclusively to KPCL. 4. For achieving the above main object, EMTA on behalf of the Company shall, inter-alia, [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1163 M/s Karnataka Emta Coal Mines Limited and Another v. Central Bureau of Investigation take up the following activities with regard to the KPCL Coal Mines: (a) survey and preparation of plans for mining; (b) drilling and prospecting; (c) mining either in open cast process or underground or both; xxxxx (e) raising coal and stacking the same on surface; xxxxx (g) Establishing coal washery of adequate capacity at the pit head and supply of coal of the required specification to the power plant of KPCL by Rail mode; xxxxx (m) preparation of plans, obtention of approval of Site Clearance from Ministry of Environment & Forest Govt.