6. VI. Conclusion: 30. For the reasons stated above, there is no merit in this appeal, and we dismiss the Civil Appeal arising out of SLP (C) No. 20844 of 2022 with costs quantified at Rs. 1,00,000/- (Rupees One Lakh) payable to Supreme Court Mediation and Conciliation Project Committee. In view of our decision, no further s are necessary in the Contempt Petition (Civil) No. 217 of 2024. 31. Pending applications, if any, stand disposed of. VII. Re : Performance audit of statute: 32. Though we have disposed of this Civil Appeal by dismissing it, we must record that this case has provoked us to reflect on the working of this Act. 33. The Act came into being in 1971 and since then, for over five decades, the High Court has been exercising judicial review jurisdiction, disposing of Writ Petitions raising claims or challenges to the exercise of powers or dereliction of duties by Authorities under the Act. Data fetched from National Judicial Data Grid (NJDG) reveals that a total of 1612 cases involving disputes arising under the Act are pending before the Bombay High Court. Of these, 135 cases are more than 10 years old. In the last 20 years, 4488 cases have been filed and disposed of under the said Act. Latest data from the Bombay High Court reveal that about 923 cases on the Appellate side and 738 on the Original Side are pending adjudication. The Act is a beneficial legislation, intended to materialize the Constitutional assurance of dignity of the individual by providing basic housing, so integral to human life. However, the propensity and the proclivity of the statute to generate litigation are worrisome. There seems to be a problem with the statutory framework for realizing the purpose and object of the statute. In M/s. Galaxy Enterprises v. State of Maharashtra (supra) the Bombay High Court has remarked that: 1470 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “3. …Nonetheless, considering the volumes of disputes still reaching the Courts, it can certainly be said that time is ripe, if not too late, to ponder, whether things are realistically working in the right direction, to eradicate slums and rehabilitate the slum dwellers, with the desired efficacy and expedition. This not only at the hands of the authorities but also at the hands of the other stake holders. The vital issue which has often led to controversy and disputes, is on the rules permitting, the selection and appointment of developers to undertake a Slum Rehabilitation Scheme, being conferred on the slum dwellers, who are hardly expected to know the nitty-gritty of the slum redevelopment schemes. It is seen that the so called leaders of the slum dwellers who are themselves in need to be rehabilitated, are often lured by developers and their agents, and once a developer is appointed, what normally prevails is a constant fear of incertitude and scepticism amongst the slum dwellers, leading to disputes on variety of issues affecting their final rehabilitation. Such issues not only frustrate the very object of a speedy slum redevelopment but completely derail the slum schemes.