C. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE STATE 31. Mr. Apoorv Kurup, the learned counsel appearing for the State submitted that no error, not to speak of any error of law, could be said to have been committed by the High Court in dismissing the appeal filed by the appellant and thereby affirming the and of conviction passed by the trial court. 32. He submitted that the following incriminating circumstances, in the form of foundational facts, were rightly taken into consideration by both the courts below for the purpose of invoking Section 106 of the Evidence Act. a. The incident occurred inside the house in which the appellant and the deceased resided. The deceased was found lying practically dead in a pool of blood. b. The appellant was present at the place of the incident till the time the Investigating Officer reached the house of the appellant upon receiving the information from the PW-8. c. The appellant failed to disclose before the Investigating Officer at the earliest point of time that two unidentified individuals entered the house and laid an assault. d. The explanation, or rather the defence, put forward by the appellant that two unidentified individuals entered the house and inflicted injuries on the deceased is falsified by the other circumstances on record. e. False explanation offered by the accused in his further statement recorded under Section 313 of the Cr.P.C. is an additional incriminating circumstance. f. The clothes worn by the appellant at the time of the incident had blood stains matching with the blood group of the deceased, i.e., ‘AB’ positive. [2024] 6 S.C.R. 187 Anees v. The State Govt. of NCT g. Although the prosecution might not have been able to establish the discovery of the weapon at the instance of the appellant in accordance with Section 27 of the Evidence Act, yet the fact that the appellant made a statement before the Investigating Officer in this regard and led the Investigating Officer along with the panch witnesses to a nearby drain from where the knife is said to have been discovered, would reflect on his conduct, which is a relevant fact under Section 8 of the Evidence Act. 33. In such circumstances referred to above, the learned counsel appearing for the State submitted that there being no merit in the appeal the same may be dismissed. D. ANALYSIS 34. Having heard the learned counsel appearing for the parties and having gone through the materials on record, the only question that falls for our consideration is whether the High Court committed any error in passing the impugned and . i. Principles of law governing the applicability of Section 106 of the Evidence Act 35. Section 106 of the Evidence Act reads as follows: “106. Burden of proving fact especially within knowledge.— When any fact is especially within the knowledge of any person, the burden of proving that fact is upon him. Illustration (a) When a person does an act with some intention other than that which the character and circumstances of the act suggest, the burden of proving that intention is upon him.