3 SCC 217 8 Notification No.22/5590-3-GS/111 [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1347 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. the remaining thirty-six castes in the list of Scheduled Castes for the State. Within the quota reserved for Scheduled Castes in direct recruitment for Government jobs, fifty percent of the vacancies were to be offered to candidates from Block A and the other fifty percent were to be offered to candidates from Block B. The notification further stipulated that in case suitable candidates from Block A were unavailable, candidates from Block B should be recruited against those vacancies. Similarly, in the event that suitable candidates from Block B were unavailable, candidates from Block A should be recruited against those vacancies. Thus, preference would be given to castes belonging to Block A and Block B in the fifty per cent earmarked for them. Proceedings were initiated under Article 226 for challenging the constitutional validity of the notification. By a dated 6 July 2006, the High Court of Punjab and Haryana quashed the notification on the ground that the sub-classification of castes placed in the list of Scheduled Castes is unconstitutional in view of the of this Court in Chinnaiah (supra). The Special Leave Petitions challenging the of the High Court of Punjab and Haryana were tagged with the appeals involving the challenge to the Punjab Act. 10. The State Legislature of Tamil Nadu enacted the Tamil Nadu Arunthathiyars (Special Reservation of seats in educational institutions including private educational Institutions and of appointments or posts in services under State within the Reservation for the Scheduled Castes) Act 2009.9 The long title to the legislation states that it is an Act to provide for reservation of seats to Arunthathiyars in educational institutions, including private educational institutions in the State and for appointment in services under the State. The Tamil Nadu Act defines Arunthathiyars to mean the castes of Arunthathiyar, Chakkiliyan, Madari, Madiga, Pagadi, Thoti and Adi Andhra from the list of seventy-six Scheduled Castes notified by the President under Article 341, as amended from time to time.10 Section 3 stipulates that sixteen per cent of the seats reserved for the Scheduled Castes in educational institutions shall be offered to the Arunthathiyars, if available, having regard to the social aand educational backwardness of the community. Section 4 makes a similar provision for the 9 “Tamil Nadu Act” 10 Tamil Nadu Act; Section 2(a) 1348 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Arunthathiyars in recruitment to Government posts.11 Proceedings under Article 32 of the Constitution were instituted before this Court for challenging the constitutional validity of the Tamil Nadu Act on the ground that it contravenes the of this Court in Chinnaiah (supra). The batch of matters challenging the Tamil Nadu Act was tagged with the batch of matters challenging the Punjab Act. iii. The in Chinnaiah 11. A three - judge Bench of this Court was called upon to adjudicate on the validity of the Andhra Pradesh Scheduled Castes (Rationalisation of Reservations) Act 2000.