After considering a host of decisions with a fine-tooth comb, the 31 (2001) 9 SCC 325 32 [2008] 10 SCR 4 : (2008) 8 SCC 612 982 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Court went on to cull out the principles of review in paragraph 35 of the decision which is extracted hereunder: “35. The principles which can be culled out from the abovenoted s are: (i) The power of the Tribunal to review its /decision under Section 22(3)(f) of the Act is akin/analogous to the power of a civil court under Section 114 read with 47 Rule 1 CPC. (ii) The Tribunal can review its decision on either of the grounds enumerated in 47 Rule 1 and not otherwise. (iii) The expression ‘any other sufficient reason’ appearing in 47 Rule 1 has to be interpreted in the light of other specified grounds. (iv) An error which is not self-evident and which can be discovered by a long process of reasoning, cannot be treated as an error apparent on the face of record justifying exercise of power under Section 22(3)(f). (v) An erroneous /decision cannot be corrected in the guise of exercise of power of review. (vi) A decision/ cannot be reviewed under Section 22(3)(f) on the basis of subsequent decision/ of a coordinate or larger Bench of the tribunal or of a superior court. (vii) While considering an application for review, the tribunal must confine its adjudication with reference to material which was available at the time of initial decision. The happening of some subsequent event or development cannot be taken note of for declaring the initial / decision as vitiated by an error apparent. (viii) Mere discovery of new or important matter or evidence is not sufficient ground for review. The party seeking review has also to show that such matter or evidence was not within its knowledge and even after the exercise of due diligence, the same could not be produced before the court/tribunal earlier.” (emphasis supplied) [2024] 5 S.C.R. 983 Govt. of NCT of Delhi Through Its Secretary, Land and Building Department & Another v. M/s K.L. Rathi Steels Limited and Others 53. This Court, in Subramanian Swamy v. State of Tamil Nadu,33 has read the Explanation as follows: “52. *** The Explanation to XLVII, Rule 1 of Code of Civil Procedure 1908 provides that if the decision on a question of law on which the of the court is based, is reversed or modified by the subsequent decision of a superior court in any other case, it shall not be a ground for the review of such . Thus, even an erroneous decision cannot be a ground for the court to undertake review, as the first and foremost requirement of entertaining a review petition is that the , review of which is sought, suffers from any error apparent on the face of the and in absence of any such error, finality attached to the / cannot be disturbed.” 54. The final one is a decision of the Constitution Bench in Beghar Foundation v. K.S.