24.2. Thus, Section 139 places an obligation upon every person to furnish voluntarily a return of his total income if such income during the relevant previous year had exceeded the maximum amount which is not chargeable to income tax. Under sub- section (9), if there are defects in the return which are not rectified within the stipulated period after being intimated by the assessing officer, the return of income would be treated as an invalid return. Of course, it would not be treated as defective and consequently invalid if in a case, such as, under clause (f) where regular books of account are not maintained but the return of income is accompanied by a statement indicating the amounts of turnover etc. 662 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 25. Section 142 deals with enquiry before assessment. As per sub-section (1), the assessing officer may issue notice upon an assessee who has made a return seeking details of such accounts, information or documents etc. which may be necessary for the purpose of making an assessment. Sub-section (2) empowers the assessing officer to make such enquiry as he considers necessary for obtaining full information and sub-section (3) requires the assessing officer to provide an opportunity of hearing to the assessee in respect of any material gathered on the basis of the enquiry. 26. This takes us to Section 143 which is the provision for assessment. As per sub-section (1), where a return is made under Section 139 or in response to a notice under Section 142(1), the assessing officer may carry out adjustments in accordance with law and thereafter, issue intimation to the assessee specifying the sums payable. Such intimation shall be deemed to be a notice of demand under Section 156 of the Act. 26.1. Sub-section (2) provides that where a return has been furnished under Section 139 or in response to a notice under sub-section (1) of Section 142, to ensure that the assessee has not under- stated the income or has not computed excessive loss or has not under-paid the tax in any manner, the assessing officer shall serve on the assessee a notice to produce evidence in support of the claim made by the assessee. 26.2. As per sub-section (3) of Section 143, after hearing such evidence as the assessee may produce and such other evidence as the assessing officer may require on specified points and after taking into account all relevant material which he has gathered, the assessing officer shall make an assessment of the total income or loss of the assessee by an in writing. In the said exercise, he shall determine the sum payable by the assessee or refund of any amount due to him on the basis of such assessment. 27. Section 144 provides for best assessment. It says that if any person fails to submit a return under sub-section (1) of Section 139 or fails to comply with the terms of a notice under sub-section (1) of Section 142 or having made a return fails to comply with all the terms of a notice issued under sub-section (2) of Section 143, the assessing officer after taking into account all relevant materials [2024] 1 S.C.R.