It is only when we come to the award being in conflict with the public policy of India that the merits of an arbitral award are to be looked into under certain specified circumstances.” (Emphasis Supplied) 23. As it is evident from the extracted provisions, as above that prior to the Amending Act, it was open for the Court to examine the award as to whether it was in conflict with, (a) public policy of India; (b) induced or affected by fraud; (c) corruption; and (d) any violation of the provisions of Section 75 and 81 of the A&C Act. 24. In the instant case, the only provision under which the award could have been assailed was for it to have been in conflict with the public policy of India. This concept has been elaborately considered by this Court in Associate Builders(supra); Ssangyong Engineering and Construction Company Limited v. National Highways Authority of India11,in the following terms:- 25. In Associate Builders (supra) the Court observed- “19. When it came to construing the expression “the public policy of India” contained in Section 34(2)(b)(ii) of the Arbitration Act, 1996, this Court in ONGC Ltd. v. Saw Pipes Ltd. [(2003) 5 SCC 705 : AIR 2003 SC 2629] held: (SCC pp. 727-28 & 744-45, paras 31 & 74) “31. Therefore, in our view, the phrase ‘public policy of India’ used in Section 34 in context is required to be given 11 (2019) 15 SCC 131 (Two Judges Bench) 296 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports a wider meaning. It can be stated that the concept of public policy connotes some matter which concerns public good and the public interest. What is for public good or in public interest or what would be injurious or harmful to the public good or public interest has varied from time to time. However, the award which is, on the face of it, patently in violation of statutory provisions cannot be said to be in public interest. Such award//decision is likely to adversely affect the administration of justice. Hence, in our view in addition to narrower meaning given to the term ‘public policy’ in Renusagar case [Renusagar Power Co. Ltd. v. General Electric Co., 1994 Supp (1) SCC 644] it is required to be held that the award could be set aside if it is patently illegal. The result would be—award could be set aside if it is contrary to: (a) fundamental policy of Indian law; or (b) the interest of India; or (c) justice or morality, or (d) in addition, if it is patently illegal. Illegality must go to the root of the matter and if the illegality is of trivial nature it cannot be held that award is against the public policy. Award could also be set aside if it is so unfair and unreasonable that it shocks the conscience of the court. Such award is opposed to public policy and is required to be adjudged void.” (Emphasis supplied) 26. Ssangyong Engineering(supra) followed the observations of Associate Builders (supra).