However, the aforesaid general meaning is to be given effect to, unless it is found that the legislature intended otherwise. Insofar as present case is concerned, as discussed hereinafter, the legislative intent was also to give effect to the amended provision even in respect of those incumbents who were in service as on 1-9-2016.” 13. The operation of repeal or substitution of a statutory provision is thus clear, a repealed provision will cease to operate from the date 20 [2018] 11 SCR 39 : (2019) 17 SCC 590 [2024] 4 S.C.R. 677 Pernod Ricard India (P) Ltd. v. The State of Madhya Pradesh & Ors. of repeal and the substituted provision will commence to operate from the date of its substitution. This principle is subject to specific statutory prescription. Statute can enable the repealed provision to continue to apply to transactions that have commenced before the repeal. Similarly, a substituted provision which operates prospectively, if it affects vested rights, subject to statutory prescriptions, can also operate retrospectively. 14. The principle governing subordinate legislation is slightly different in as much as the operation of a subordinate legislation is determined by the empowerment of the parent act. The legislative authorization enabling the executive to make rules prospectively or retrospectively is crucial. Without a statutory empowerment, subordinate legislation will always commence to operate only from the date of its issuance and at the same time, cease to exist from the date of its deletion or withdrawal. The reason for this distinction is in the supremacy of the Parliament and its control of executive action, being an important subject of administrative law. 15. We will now refer to the rule making power under the M.P. Excise Act, 1915. Section 62 of the Act empowers the State to make rules. Relevant portion of Section 62 is as follows: – “62. Power to make rules.— (1) The State Government may make rules for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this Act. (2) In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing provision, the State Government may make rules— (a) prescribing the powers and duties of Excise Officers; (b) to (n) … (3) The power conferred by this section of making rules is subject to the condition that the rules made under sub- section (2) (a), (b), (c), (e), (f), (i), (l) and (m) shall be made after previous publication : Provided that any such rules may be made without previous publication if the State Government considers that they should be brought into force at once.” 678 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 16. Section 62 does not enable the executive to continue the application of a repealed rule to events that have commenced during the subsistence of the Rule. However, Section 63 is of some importance. It enables the executive to operate the Rule from a date as may be specified in that behalf. Section 63 is reproduced as below:- “63. Publication of rules and notifications.— All rules made and notifications issued under this Act shall be published in the Official Gazette, and shall have effect from the date of such publication or from such other date as may be specified in that behalf.” 17.