And now, therefore, the Central Government, after carefully examining the material placed on record and the recommendations of the Authority, is satisfied that a [2024] 10 S.C.R. 337 Fuleshwar Gope v. Union of India & Ors. prima facie case is made out against the accused persons/ entities under the relevant sections of law and hereby accords sanction for prosecution under section 45(1) of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967…” BY AND IN THE NAME OF THE PRESIDENT OF INDIA Sd/- (Dharmendar Kumar) Under Secretary to the Government of India” (Emphasis supplied) 16. The question of validity of sanction being challenged, and at what stage it may be permissible, has engaged this Court on few previous occasions, albeit in context of different statutes. It shall be useful to refer to them. 16.1 In Central Bureau of Investigation v. Ashok Kumar Aggarwal 20 this Court noted the importance of the process of grant of sanction. It has been termed “not an acrimonious exercise but a solemn and sacrosanct act ” in the context of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988.21 The Court summarised the essentials for validity of prosecution as under:- “16. In view of the above, the legal propositions can be summarised as under: 16.1. The prosecution must send the entire relevant record to the sanctioning authority including the FIR, disclosure statements, statements of witnesses, recovery memos, draft charge-sheet and all other relevant material. The record so sent should also contain the material/document, if any, which may tilt the balance in favour of the accused and on the basis of which, the competent authority may refuse sanction. 16.2. The authority itself has to do complete and conscious scrutiny of the whole record so produced 20 [2013] 14 SCR 983 : (2014) 14 SCC 295 21 Hereinafter, ‘PC Act’ 338 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports by the prosecution independently applying its mind and taking into consideration all the relevant facts before grant of sanction while discharging its duty to give or withhold the sanction. 16.3. The power to grant sanction is to be exercised strictly keeping in mind the public interest and the protection available to the accused against whom the sanction is sought. 16.4. The of sanction should make it evident that the authority had been aware of all relevant facts/materials and had applied its mind to all the relevant material. 16.5. In every individual case, the prosecution has to establish and satisfy the court by leading evidence that the entire relevant facts had been placed before the sanctioning authority and the authority had applied its mind on the same and that the sanction had been granted in accordance with law.” (Emphasis supplied) 16.2 In Parkash Singh Badal v. State of Punjab,22 this Court held that an authority, which is the sanctioning authority is not required to separately specify each of the offences against the accused public servant. This is to be done at the stage of framing of charge. What the law requires is that materials must be placed before the sanctioning authority so as to enable the application of mind in arriving at a decision.