We are cognizant that liberty is not to be interfered with easily. More so, when an of pre-arrest bail already stands granted by the High Court. 12. Yet, much like bail, the grant of anticipatory bail is to be exercised with judicial discretion. The factors illustrated by this Court through its pronouncements are illustrative, and not exhaustive. Undoubtedly, the fate of each case turns on its own facts and merits.” (emphasis supplied) 21. In Ajwar (supra), this Court also examined the considerations for setting aside bail s in terms below: “28. The considerations that weigh with the appellate Court for setting aside the bail on an application being moved by the aggrieved party include any supervening circumstances that may have occurred after granting relief to the accused, the conduct of the accused while on bail, any attempt on the part of the accused to procrastinate, resulting in delaying the trial, any instance of threats being extended to the witnesses while on bail, any attempt on the part of the accused to tamper with the evidence in any manner. We may add that this list is only illustrative and not exhaustive. However, the court must be cautious that at the stage of granting bail, only a prima facie case needs to be examined and detailed reasons relating to the merits of the case that may cause prejudice to the accused, ought to be avoided. Suffice it is to state that [2024] 8 S.C.R. 765 Manik Madhukar Sarve & Ors. v. Vitthal Damuji Meher & Ors. the bail should reveal the factors that have been considered by the Court for granting relief to the accused. 29. In Jagjeet Singh (supra)11, a three-Judges bench of this Court, has observed that the power to grant bail under Section 439 Cr. P.C. is of wide amplitude and the High Court or a Sessions Court, as the case may be, is bestowed with considerable discretion while deciding an application for bail. But this discretion is not unfettered. The passed must reflect due application of judicial mind following well established principles of law. In ordinary course, courts would be slow to interfere with the where bail has been granted by the courts below. But if it is found that such an is illegal or perverse or based upon utterly irrelevant material, the appellate Court would be well within its power to set aside and cancel the bail. (Also refer: Puran v. Ram Bilas12; Narendra K. Amin (Dr.) v. State of Gujarat13)” (emphasis supplied) 22. The learned Single Judge, in the impugned , has simply proceeded on the premise that there were only allegations made by some persons against the respondent no.1 and he was not a member of the Society which had committed such financial irregularities. Moreover, we find that the learned Single Judge, whilst noting that “no positive finding need be recorded on the sufficiency of the said material to establish conspiracy, which issue will be addressed by the trial Court, after the evidence is adduced”, has without any basis thought it fit to record that in his “prima facie opinion, it is extremely debatable whether such material is sufficient to establish conspiracy.” 23.