In particular, the Bench noted the observations in (i) McDowell (supra) that the State has competence over production to sale of “intoxicating liquor”; (ii) Vam Organic I (supra), that State has competence over “denatured spirit”; and (iii) Bihar Distillery (supra) that the State’s competence over “rectified spirit” depended on the purpose for which spirit was going to be used. The Bench also noted the observations of a three-Judge Bench in State of UP v. Modi Distillery48 that the State does not have the legislative competence to levy excise duty on the material or input that is used in the process of producing alcoholic liquor for human consumption by relying on Synthetics (7J) (supra).49 However, it must be noted that the Bench in Modi Distillery (supra), specifically recorded that it does not “express any opinion in regard to the power of the State to regulate the manufacture of alcoholic liquors for human consumption.”50 21. Meanwhile, another two-Judge Bench51 referred the decision in Bihar Distillery (supra) to a larger Bench on the ground that it was prima facie contrary to the scheme of legislative competence as examined by the Constitution Bench of this Court and the three- Judge Bench decision of this Court in Modi Distillery (supra). The three-Judge Bench in Deccan Sugar & Abkari v. Commissioner of Excise, AP,52 without overruling the decision in Bihar Distillery (supra) observed that this Court in Synthetics (7J) held that the State Legislature does not have the competence to levy any excise 47 (1997) 5 SCC 758 48 [1995] Supp. 3 SCR 119 : (1995) 5 SCC 753 49 In this case, the challenge was to the levy of excise duty on wastage in the preparation of Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL), pipeline wastage and obscuration (which is the process of adding caramel to spirit for the preparation of rum. The Bench relied on the observations in Synthetics (7J) that the phrase ‘alcoholic liquor for human consumption’ means the liquor that is consumable “as it is” to hold that the State does not have the power to levy excise duty on the stages of manufacture or preparation of the liquor. 50 (1995) 5 SCC 753 [14] 51 Deccan Sugar and Abkari Co. Ltd. v. Commissioner of Excise, AP (1998) 3 SCC 272 52 (2004) 1 SCC 243 [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1969 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons duty on “rectified spirit”.53 Subsequently, another two-Judge in State of UP v. Vam Organic54 [“Vam Organic (II)”], dealt with the challenge to the levy of license fee on ‘denatured industrial alcohol’, a raw material used in the preparation of Organic compounds. In that case, the State had submitted that it had the power to levy the fee because denatured alcohol could be renatured to produce potable alcohol which is covered by paragraph 86(b) of the decision in Synthetics (7J). The Bench rejected the submission holding that the State Government is competent to levy fee to ensure that industrial alcohol (which the used alternatively for ethyl alcohol) is not “surreptitiously converted into potable alcohol so that … the public is protected from consuming illicit liquor”.