Digital Supreme Court Reports with the notice of invocation of arbitration issued by the petitioner is not hit by limitation. 91. The notice for invocation of arbitration having been issued by the petitioner within a period of three years from the date of accrual of cause of action, the claims cannot be said to be ex-facie dead or time- barred on the date of commencement of the arbitration proceedings. 92. In view of the aforesaid, the present petition is allowed. We appoint Shri Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul, Former Judge of the Supreme Court of India, to act as the sole arbitrator. The fees of the arbitrator including other modalities shall be fixed in consultation with the parties. 93. All other rights and contentions are kept open for the parties to raise before the Arbitrator. 94. Before we part with the matter, we would like to mention that this Court while dealing with similar issues in many other matters has observed that the applicability of Section 137 to applications under Section 11(6) of the Act, 1996 is a result of legislative vacuum as there is no statutory prescription regarding the time limit. We would again like to reiterate that the period of three years is an unduly long period for filing an application under Section 11 of the Act, 1996 and goes against the very spirit of the Act, 1996 which provides for expeditious resolution of commercial disputes within a time-bound manner. Various amendments to the Act, 1996 have been made over the years so as to ensure that arbitration proceedings are conducted and concluded expeditiously. We are of the considered opinion that the Parliament should consider bringing an amendment to the Act, 1996 prescribing a specific period of limitation within which a party may move the court for making an application for appointment of arbitrators under Section 11 of the Act, 1996. The Petition stands disposed of in the aforesaid terms. 95. Pending application(s), if any, shall stand disposed of. Headnotes prepared by: Divya Pandey Result of the case: Petition allowed.