‘Merit-cum-Seniority’ only stipulates that a balance must be maintained between ‘Merit’ and ‘Seniority’ with ‘Merit’ playing a more predominant role in the selection process. [2024] 5 S.C.R. 1133 Ravikumar Dhansukhlal Maheta & Anr. v. High Court of Gujarat & Ors. 113. Similarly, the decision in Dr. Kavita Kamboj (supra) has also been strongly relied upon by the petitioners, but it is of no avail to them, as the limited question that was involved in the said case was whether minimum marks could be specified for the written exam and the viva voce separately. 114. While laying down the promotion policy or rule, it is always open to the employer to specify the area and parameter or the weightage to be given in respect of merit and seniority separately, so long as the policy is not a colourable exercise of power, nor has the effect of violating any statutory scope of interference and other relatable matters. [See K. Samantaray (supra)] d. High Court as a custodian of the District Judiciary under Article 235 of the Constitution. 115. We should be mindful of the fact that the High Court by virtue of its power under Article 235 of the Constitution undertook the recruitment process for the purpose of promotion. The High Court followed the procedure which it had been following without any departure since 2011. In such circumstances, had the High Court departed from the method of promotion which it had been following since 2011, it could have been argued on behalf of the respondents that they had legitimate expectation that the High Court would not deviate from the method or process they had been adopting since 2011. 116. In the aforesaid context we may make a reference to R. v. Inland Revenue Commissioners, ex parte M.F.K Underwriting Agents Ltd. reported in [1990] 1 W.L.R. 1545 where Lord Justice of Appeal, Thomas Bingham, while invoking fairness as a rationale for protecting legitimate expectations, expressed the following: - “If a public authority so conducts itself as to create a legitimate expectation that a certain course will be followed it would often be unfair if the authority were permitted to follow a different course to the detriment of one who entertained the expectation, particularly if he acted on it [...] The doctrine of legitimate expectation is rooted in fairness.” 117. In Madan Mohan Choudhary v. State of Bihar reported in (1999) 3 SCC 396 this Court held that the High Court’s control over the District Judiciary under Article 235 of the Constitution is comprehensive and 1134 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports extends to a variety of matters including promotion. The relevant observations read as under: - “22. In to ensure their independence, the control over the subordinate courts has been vested in the High Court under Article 235 [...] 23. Under this Article, the High Court’s control over the subordinate judiciary is comprehensive and extends over a variety of matters, including posting, promotion and grant of leave. The three words, namely, “posting”, “promotion” and “grant of leave” used in this article are only illustrative in character and do not limit the extent of control exercised by the High Court over the officers of the subordinate judiciary.