Well before that, the Auction Purchaser paid the balance sale consideration in respect of the auctioned property on 24th August, 2020 and a Sale Deed was executed by the Liquidator in favour of the Auction Purchaser on 28th August, 2020. One month after completion of the sale transaction, the appellant filed an application on 25th September, 2020,5 seeking recall of the dated 05th May, 2020, passed by the Adjudicating Authority and challenging the execution of the Sale Deed. By virtue of the common dated 17th November, 2021, the Adjudicating Authority dismissed both the applications filed by the appellant, one for stalling the e-auction that was conducted on 23rd December, 20194 and the other for setting aside the Sale Deed dated 28th August, 2020. The said s were carried in appeal by the appellant before the Tribunal. Vide common and dated 16th September, 2022, the Tribunal dismissed the appeals filed by the appellant, giving rise to the present appeals. C. ARGUMENTS ADVANCED ON BEHALF OF THE APPELLANT 10. Mr. P. Chidambaram, learned Senior advocate appearing for the appellant submitted that the Tribunal failed to appreciate that the 16 Company Appeal (AT) (INS) No. 334 of 2021 1274 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports auction conducted by the Liquidator was in violation of the provisions of the IBBI Regulations, 2016 particularly, Regulation 31A that requires a Liquidator to constitute a Stakeholders’ Consultation Committee and Regulation 33 that prescribes the mode of sale of the assets of the Corporate Debtor through an auction in the manner specified in Schedule I. Relying on the decision in C.N. Paramasivam and Another v. Sunrise Plaza through Partner and Others,17 it has been contended that Schedule I, Rule 12 of the IBBI Regulations, 2016 is mandatory and any non-compliance thereof should result in cancellation of the sale. The decision in Sharif-ud-din v. Abdul Gani Lone18 was cited by learned counsel to make a point that when the rule provides a consequence for failure to comply, then it ought to be treated as mandatory and not directory in character. It was argued that having regard to the mandatory character of the regulations, the Tribunal has erred in failing to appreciate that the Auction Purchaser could neither have sought extension of time to deposit the balance sale consideration nor could such an indulgence have been granted to it. Dovetailed to the above, is the submission that the Liquidator was selective in applying the amended provisions of the IBBI Regulations, 2016, based on a Circular dated 26th August, 2019. 11. The second submission made by learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant was that the Tribunal ought not to have concurred with the Adjudicating Authority to hold that the extension granted to the Auction Purchaser to deposit the balance sale consideration on account of the Covid-19 lockdown, was valid. It was submitted that since banks were functioning during that time, the Auction Purchaser had all the opportunity to deposit the balance sale consideration. Therefore, it had no defence for not making the payment on time.