Notwithstanding such a provision, this Court proceeded to record in paragraph 6 as follows: “6. Trial of a civil dispute in court is intended to achieve, according to law and the procedure of the court, a judicial determination between the contesting parties of the matter in controversy. Opportunity to the parties interested in the dispute to present their respective cases on questions of law as well as fact, ascertainment of facts by means of evidence tendered by the parties, and adjudication by a reasoned of the dispute upon a finding on the facts in controversy and application of the law to the facts found, are essential attributes of a judicial trial. In a judicial trial, the Judge not only must reach a conclusion which he regards as just, but, unless otherwise permitted, by the practice of the court or by law, he must record the ultimate mental process leading from the dispute to its solution. A judicial determination of a disputed claim where substantial questions of law or fact arise is satisfactorily reached, only if it be supported by the most cogent reasons that suggest themselves to the Judge a mere deciding the matter in dispute not supported by reasons is no at all. Recording of reasons in support of a decision of a disputed claim serves more purposes than one. It is intended to ensure that the decision is not the result of whim or fancy, but of a judicial approach to the matter in contest: it is also intended to ensure adjudication of the matter according to law and the procedure established by law. A party to the 536 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports dispute is ordinarily entitled to know the grounds on which the court has decided against him, and more so, when the is subject to appeal. The appellate court will then have adequate material on which it may determine whether the facts are properly ascertained, the law has been correctly applied and the resultant decision is just. It is unfortunate that the learned trial Judge has recorded no reasons in support of his conclusion, and the High Court in appeal merely recorded that they thought that the plaintiff had sufficiently proved the case in the plaint.” 24. However, there, it was an appellate decree which this Court was called upon to examine. We realise that we are not examining the correctness of a / arising from exercise of appellate jurisdiction by the High Court but a approving an on an objection under section 47, CPC, scope wherefor is limited. 25. Our real task is to ascertain whether the decree drawn up on the basis of the dated 5th August, 1991 and put to execution by the appellants could have been objected to by the respondents 1 to 3 as inexecutable under section 47, CPC. Section 47, CPC, being one of the most important provisions relating to execution of decrees, mandates that an executing court shall determine all questions arising between the parties to the suit or their representatives in relation to the execution, discharge, or satisfaction of the decree and that such questions may not be adjudicated in a separate suit.