)”. (emphasis supplied) Therefore, what would constitute a substantial question of law would differ in each case. When material and relevant facts have been ignored and legal principles have not been applied while appreciating the evidence, a substantial question of law can be said to have arisen. Additionally, even in a case where evidence is misread, the power to interfere under Section 100 would exist. 90. In our considered view the impugned of the NCLAT directing the SRA to adjust the PBG of Rs. 150 Crore against the first tranche payment of Rs. 350 Crore was in flagrant disregard of the of this Court dated 18.01.2023, the terms of the Resolution Plan and established law. Such an was perverse for having not properly considered several material and relevant facts and misreading evidence as well. Furthermore, the non-infusion and payment of funds in compliance with the applicable laws and the terms of the Resolution Plan had led to circumstances causing a failure of the Resolution Plan. We have no doubt in our mind that the NCLAT acted contrary to the settled legal principles and went to the extent of drawing wrong inferences from proved facts while deciding the matter. This itself justifies the examination of various issues in exercise of the jurisdiction afforded to us under Section 62 of the IBC, 2016. i. Whether the Performance Bank Guarantee (PBG) could have been adjusted against the first tranche payment which was to be made under the Resolution Plan, within 180 days 2114 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports from the Effective Date, in contravention of the of this Court dated 18.01.2024, the terms of the Resolution Plan and the provisions of law? a. Whether the Conditions Precedent were fulfilled by Respondent No.1/SRA and the Effective Date was fixed at 20.05.2022? 91. Clause 7.6.1 of the Resolution Plan details five Conditions Precedent that have to be fulfilled by the SRA. They are: - (a) Validation of AOC, (b) Approval of Business Plan, (c) Slot Allotment Approval, (d) International Traffic Rights Clearance, and (e) Demerger of AGSL. Of the five Conditions Precedent that find mention under Clause 7.6.1 of the Resolution Plan, the Appellants have only disputed the fulfilment of three Conditions Precedent i.e., Validation of AOC, Slots Allotment Approval and International Traffic Rights Clearance. According to Clause 7.6.2 of the Resolution Plan, the date of fulfillment of all the Conditions Precedent as stated in Clause 7.6.1 would be the Effective Date for the purposes of the Resolution Plan. A failure to fulfil the Conditions Precedent within a maximum of 270 days from the date of approval of the Resolution Plan would lead to an automatic withdrawal of the Resolution Plan as per Clause 7.6.4. 92. On 22.06.2021, the NCLT had given its imprimatur to the Resolution Plan that was submitted by the SRA and this was the Approval Date i.e., “Y” as per the Implementation Schedule set out under Clause 7.7 of the Resolution Plan. The SRA had to fulfil the five Conditions Precedent within a period of 90 days, that was extendable to an additional 180 days i.e., 270 days in total.