To this extent there is mutual agreement. Thereupon, the arbitrator can be appointed 992 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports by mutual consent of all parties. This does not obliterate or write off the arbitration clause. In terms of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996,4 where parties cannot agree upon a common name as to who will act as an arbitrator, the court can appoint the arbitral tribunal. The arbitration clauses have to be read in a pragmatic manner. The intent of the parties while executing the arbitration clause in the Partnership Deed is clear. The learned counsel for the respondents relied upon two s of this Court in Wellington Associates Ltd. v. Mr. Kirit Mehta5 and Jagdish Chander v. Ramesh Chander & Ors.6 In our opinion, the facts of these cases are entirely different and the arbitration clauses relied upon were differently worded. In Wellington Associates Ltd. (supra), the proceedings were under the Arbitration Act, 1940. In view of the above discussion, the impugned is set aside and the appeal is allowed. The petition under Section 11(6) of the A&C Act, filed by the present appellant, Tarun Dhameja, the legal representative of the deceased partner, Yeshwant Boolani, will be treated as allowed. The Coordinator/Chairman of the Madhya Pradesh Arbitration Centre or the Arbitration Centre attached to the High Court of Madhya Pradesh at Indore, as the case may be, will appoint an Arbitrator to adjudicate the disputes inter-se the parties. The learned Arbitrator will file his/her declaration under Section 12 of the A&C Act within 15 days from the date of appointment. The fees of the learned Arbitrator will be fixed by the said Centre or will be paid as per the Fourth Schedule to the A&C Act, as may be applicable. We clarify that we have not made any comments on the merits of the claims and contentions raised by the parties. Pending application(s), if any, shall stand disposed of. Result of the case: Appeal allowed. †Headnotes prepared by: Aandrita Deb, Hony. Associate Editor (Verified by: Shadan Farasat, Sr. Adv.) 4 For short, “the A&C Act.” 5 (2000) 4 SCC 272 6 [2007] 5 SCR 720 : (2007) 5 SCC 719