51. Not only this, the Regulations came to be enacted only after the Concession Agreement had been executed, and were seemingly designed to validate the actions already taken by NTBCL and NOIDA. We may also hasten to add that the subject Regulations are neither retroactive nor can be applied retrospectively and are thus alien to the terms and conditions of the Concession Agreement. [2024] 12 S.C.R. 2029 Noida Toll Bridge Company Ltd. v. Federation of Noida Residents Welfare Association and Others 52. It seems that NTBCL and NOIDA have indulged in trickery and placed the cart before the horse, in attempting to authorise actions post facto, thereby obscuring the full extent of misuse of power. We find it evident that these Regulations were introduced by NOIDA in the aftermath of enacting the Concession Agreement, serving merely as an afterthought, while having no authority to do so. We thus hold that NOIDA did not have any competence to delegate the power to levy fees and toll to NTBCL, and thereby overstepped its statutory bounds. Accordingly, we are not inclined to interfere with the findings of the High Court on this issue. G.4 Dissonance between Article 14 of the Concession Agreement read with the formula vis-à-vis public policy 53. Article 14 of the Concession Agreement defines the ‘Total Cost of the Project’ and its calculation methodology, as elaborated in Annexure F. The issue herein concerns whether this provision aligns with the principles of public policy and the Constitution of India. To elucidate, the relevant language of Article 14 of the Concession Agreement states: “Article 14: Costs and Accounting Section 14.1: Total Cost of Project (a) The Project Cost shall be determined as on the Project Commissioning Date by the Independent Auditor who shall seek the assistance of the Independent Engineer to determine the Cost of Construction component of the Project Cost. (b) The Total Cost of Project shall be the aggregate of: (i) Project Cost; (ii) Major Maintenance Expenses; and (iii) Shortfall in the recovery of Returns in a specific financial year as per the formula in Section 14.2(a). Section 14.2: Calculation of Returns (a) The amounts available for appropriation by the Concessionaire for the purpose of recovering the Total 2030 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports Cost of Project and the Returns thereon, as illustrated in Appendix F, shall be calculated at annual intervals from the Effective Date in the following manner: Out of gross revenues from fee collections, income from advertising and Development Income deduct O&M Expenses. (b) The Total Cost of Project and the recovery thereof and of the Returns shall be determined by the Concessionaire annually in arrears, and certified by the Independent Auditor. Section 14.3: Accounts of Concessionaire The Concessionaire shall keep and maintain the books of accounts for the Project in accordance with the format approved by the Independent Auditor and the accounting practices specified by the Independent Auditor and the statutory requirements consistently applied in accordance with Indian law.” 54. To this end, NTBCL has defended the validity of Article 14 and argued that the provision, when read alongside the formula in Annexure F, does not contravene the Constitution or public policy.