Due to the fear of retribution from members of upper caste groups, ignorance or police apathy, many victims do not register complaints in the first place. If victims or their relatives muster up the courage to approach the police, the police officials are reluctant to register complaints or do not record allegations accurately. 222 [2020] 2 SCR 727 : (2020) 4 SCC 727 223 [2021] 8 SCR 855 : 2021 INSC 701 224 Section 15A(5) of the Act provides: “A victim or his dependent shall be entitled to be heard at any proceeding under this Act in respect of bail, discharge, release, parole, conviction or sentence of an accused or any connected proceedings or arguments and file written submission on conviction, acquittal or sentencing.” 580 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Eventually, if the case does get registered, the victims and witnesses are vulnerable to intimidation, violence and social and economic boycott. Further, many perpetrators of caste based atrocities get away scot-free due to shoddy investigations and the negligence of prosecuting advocates. This results in low conviction rates under the SC/ST Act giving rise to the erroneous perception that cases registered under the Act are false and that it is being misused. On the contrary, the reality is that many acquittals are a result of improper investigation and prosecution of crime, leading to insufficient evidence. This is evident from the low percentage of cases attracting the application of the provisions of the Penal Code relating to false complaints as compared to the rate of acquittals.” (emphasis added) The Court observed that the provisions of the PoA Act, in particular Section 15A, “enable a member of the marginalized caste to effectively pursue a case and counteract the effects of defective investigations”. 137. In Patan Jamal Vali v. State of Andhra Pradesh,225 this Court expanded the scope of jurisprudence relating to Section 3(2)(v) of the PoA Act. The case dealt with the offence of rape of a woman from the Scheduled Caste community, who was blind by birth. Prior to the amendment in 2016, Section 3(2)(v) provided, “Whoever not being a member of a Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe … commits any offence under the Indian Penal Code punishable with imprisonment for a term of ten years or more against a person or property on the ground that such person is a member of a Scheduled Caste or a Scheduled Tribe or such property belongs to such member, shall be punishable with imprisonment for life and with fine”. The Court observed that in such cases, “an intersectional lens enables us to view oppression as a sum of disadvantage resulting from multiple marginalized identities.” It was held that “A true reading of Section 3(2) (v) would entail that conviction under this provision can be sustained as long as caste identity is one of the grounds for the occurrence of the offence.” The Court observed: 225 [2021] 3 SCR 470 : 2021 INSC 272 [2024] 10 S.C.R. 581 Sukanya Shantha v. Union of India & Ors.