Let us now take a look at Article 16(1) and Article 16(4). Article 16(1) guarantees equality of opportunity for all citizens in matters relating to employment or appointment to any office under the State. To the class of citizens who are economically and socially backward this guarantee will be no more than mere wishful thinking, and mere “vanity ... wind and confusion”, if it is not translated into reality by necessary State action to protect and nurture such class of citizens so as to enable them to shake off the heart-crushing burden of a thousand years’ deprivation from their shoulders and to claim a fair proportion of participation in the administration. Reservation of posts and all other measures designed to promote the participation of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes in the Public Services at all levels are in our opinion necessary consequences flowing from the Fundamental Right guaranteed by Article 16(1). This very idea is emphasised further by Article 16(4). Article 16(4) is not in the nature of an exception to Article 16(1). It is a facet of Article 16(1) which fosters and furthers the idea of equality of opportunity with special reference to an underprivileged and deprived class of citizens to whom egalite de droit (formal or legal equality) is not egalite de fait (practical or factual equality). It is illustrative of what the State must do to wipe out the distinction between egalite de droit [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1517 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. and egalite de fait. It recognises that the right to equality of opportunity includes the right of the underprivileged to conditions comparable to or compensatory of those enjoyed by the privileged. Equality of opportunity must be such as to yield “Equality of Results” and not that which simply enables people, socially and economically better placed, to win against the less fortunate, even when the competition is itself otherwise equitable. John Rawls in A Theory Of Justice demands the priority of equality in a distributive sense and the setting up of the social system “so that no one gains or loses from his arbitrary place in the distribution of natural assets or his own initial position in society without giving or receiving compensatory advantages in return”. His basic principle of social justice is: “All social primary goods — liberty and opportunity, income and wealth, and the bases of self- respect — are to be distributed equally unless an unequal distribution of any or all these goods is to the advantage of the least favoured.” One of the essential elements of his conception of social justice is what he calls the principle of redress: “This is the principle that undeserved inequalities call for redress; and since inequalities of birth and natural endowment are undeserved, these inequalities are somehow to be compensated for.” Society must, therefore, treat more favourably those with fewer native assets and those born into less favourable social positions. If the statement that “Equality of Opportunity must yield Equality of Results” and if the fulfilment of Article 16(1) in Article 16(4) ever needed a philosophical foundation it is furnished by Rawls› theory of justice and the redress Principle.” 121.