To be an overcharge, a sum of money must partake of the same character as the charge itself or must be of the same genus or class as a charge; it cannot be any other kind of money such as money recovered where nothing is due. Overcharge is simply a charge in excess of that which is due according to law. 20. In the case at hand, the freight rates notified by the Railway Administration in exercise of its statutory power to do so, so long as they were not declared illegal and unreasonable by the Tribunal under Section 41 of the Act, were legal and anyone carrying the goods by rail was liable to pay the freight in accordance with those rates. The freight paid by the respondents was as per the rates notified. Thus the present one is not a case of overcharge at all. It is a case of illegal recovery of freight on account of being unreasonable and in violation of Section 28 of the Act, consequent upon such determination by the Tribunal and the decision of the Tribunal having been upheld by this Court. A case of “illegal charge” is distinguishable from the case of “overcharge” and does not attract the applicability of Section 78-B of the Railways Act.” (Emphasis supplied) 54. In J.K. Lakshmi Cement Ltd. v. General Manager & Anr. reported in (2014) SCC OnLine Raj 2340, the Rajasthan High Court held that the freight charged mistakenly on a wrong calculation of distance between the two stations was an overcharge and not an illegal charge. The High Court observed that an overcharge is an excess sum having 1102 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the same character as the basic charge which otherwise is payable, and thus, any other kind of levy unrelated to the basic charge would not be an overcharge. Since the excess freight that was charged due to mistake on part of the railway booking staff related to ‘freight charges’ which otherwise was payable, the same was held to be an overcharge. The relevant observations read as under: - “[...] The facts of the case are that the appellant-Company dispatched 5 racks of 4100 M.T. levy cement from its Banas siding to be carried and delivered at Thiyat Hamira Railway Station. The distance between two stations is stated to be only 511 Kms, and the Railways alleged to had charged freight for distance of 946 Kms. Calculating the distance via Rewari. It was stated that because of this mistake in the calculation of the distance from the appellant-Company’s Banas siding to Thiyat Hamira Railway Station, railway freight was charged in excess @ Rs. 21.44 per qtl. Instead of the applicable rate of Rs. 13.11 per qtl. and paid under mistake. Consequently Rs. 3,69,775/- was overpaid. This excess realisation was according to the appellant-Company on the face of it arbitrary, unauthorized and illegal and thus refundable by the Railways with interest. xxx xxx xxx [...] Further, a bare look at the judgement of the Hon’ble Gujarat High Court in Mansukhlal Jethalal (Supra) as also the judgement of the Hon’ble Supreme Court in West Coast Paper Mills Ltd. (Supra) makes it clear that an overcharge of freight would mean “a charge of sum more than permitted in law”.