This triggered the first round of litigation (“first round”, hereafter) yielding diverse outcomes which are categorized as follows: first, in some cases, leave was granted but the civil appeals were subsequently dismissed (or allowed, in handful of cases); second, in some cases, leave was not granted and the SLPs were dismissed in limine; and third, where SLPs/civil appeals are still pending adjudication. c) Dismissal of the civil appeals/SLPs brought about a quietus. However, in the light of change in law consequent to the decision [2024] 5 S.C.R. 1173 Government of NCT of Delhi & Anr. v. M/s BSK Realtors LLP & Anr. in Manoharlal [5-Judge, lapse] (supra), such of the authorities (DDA, GNCTD, LAC, and L&B) who had not earlier challenged the s and s of the High Court declaring land acquisition proceedings as lapsed, approached this Court by way of SLPs/Miscellaneous Applications (“M.A.s”, hereafter)/ Review Petitions. This triggered the second round of litigation (“second round”, hereafter), however, with the status of the aggrieved authorities being transposed. For instance, filing of SLP by GNCTD impleading DDA as the second respondent in the lead matter, as noticed above, whereas GNCTD was the second respondent in the first round initiated by DDA. d) Upon the appeals being placed before us, we are entrusted with resolving the issue, or for that matter issues, outlined later in the . 12. Since the authorities (DDA, GNCTD, LAC, and L&B) jointly harbour a shared grievance and individually act as appellants in the ongoing proceedings, they will be collectively denoted as “appellants” hereafter, notwithstanding the transposition of the authorities as parties or their status as respondents in the second round. Insofar as the affected landowners are concerned, they shall be referred to as “landowners” or “aggrieved parties”, as the context would require. D. CATEGORIZATION OF CASES 13. Each of the Civil Appeals/M.A.s before us may necessitate separate directions. We have, therefore, categorised them in six groups based on varied outcomes in the first round of litigation and their respective status in the second round of litigation for ease of reference. 14. A brief overview of the groups we have carved out for the facility of reference is as under: a) Group A deals with M.A.s filed by the appellants-authorities primarily pleading change in law and seeking recall of the s and s of this Court dismissing the Civil Appeals and/or Review Petitions in the first round. b) Group B.1 includes cases where Civil Appeals were dismissed in the first round, and now an SLP (now Civil Appeal, leave having been granted by us) is pending before us in the second round. 1174 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports c) Cases categorized under Group B.2 encompass the following scenarios: i. Four cases where the Civil Appeals of the appellants- authorities were allowed in the first round and the SLPs, filed during the pendency of the appeals in the first round, are pending before us in the second round (present batch). ii. One case where the appeal, filed by the appellant-authority subsequent to the SLP pending before us in the present round, was allowed after granting leave.