That any exercise of public power, including constitutional power, shall not be exercised arbitrarily or mala fide vide Maru Ram. It was observed in the said case that, considerations of religion, caste, colour or political loyalty are totally irrelevant and fraught with discrimination. The function of determining whether the act of a constitutional or statutory functionary falls within the constitutional or legislative conferment of power or is vitiated by self-denial or an erroneous appreciation of the full amplitude of the power, is a matter for the Court to decide vide Kehar Singh vs. Union of India, (1989) 1 SCC 204 (“Kehar Singh”). (ii) In Epuru Sudhakar, two other aspects were also considered: one relating to the desirability of indicating reasons in the granting pardon/remission and the other, relating to the power to withdraw the of granting pardon/remission, if subsequently, materials are placed to show that certain relevant materials were not considered or certain materials of extensive value were kept out of consideration. It was observed that the affected party need not be given the reasons but that does not mean that there [2024] 1 S.C.R. 877 Bilkis Yakub Rasool v. Union of India & Others should not be legitimate or relevant reasons for passing the . It was also observed that in the absence of any specific reference under Articles 72 or 161 of Constitution with regard to withdrawal of an of remission, there is no bar for such power being exercised. (iii) On a consideration of the facts of the said case, it was observed that, irrelevant and extraneous materials had entered into the decision-making process, thereby vitiatingit. The granting remission impugned in the writ petitions was set aside being unsustainable and directed to be reconsidered and the writ petition was allowed to that extent. Kapadia, J., as the learned Chief Justice then was, in his concurring opinion observed that, exercise of executive clemency is a matter of discretion and yet subject to certain standards. The discretion has to be exercised or public considerations allowed. Therefore, the principle of exclusive cognizance would not apply when the decision impugned is in derogation of a constitutional provision. It was further stated that granting of pardon has the effect of eliminating conviction without addressing the defendant’s guilt or innocence. (iv) The exercise of the prerogative power is subject to judicial review and rule of law which is the basis for evaluation of all decisions. Rule of law cannot be compromised on the grounds of political expediency as “to go by such consideration would be subversive of the fundamental principles of rule of law and it would amount to setting a dangerous precedent.” (e) In Mansukhlal Vithaldas Chauhan vs. State of Gujarat, (1997) 7 SCC 622, the basis on which the legality of an administrative decision could be reviewed was stated. It could be on whether, a decision making authority exceeding its powers committed an error of law; committed a breach of rules of natural justice; reached a decision which no reasonable tribunal would have reached or abused its powers.