Section 13७ mandates record keeping of every contribution. On the other hand, Section 29C mandates disclosure of information of contributions beyond rupees twenty thousand per person or per company in one financial year. 166. Section 29C(1) is one of the means to achieve the purpose of protecting the informational privacy of political affiliation of individuals. Parliament in its wisdom has prescribed rupees twenty thousand as the threshold where the considerations of disclosure of information of political contribution outweigh the considerations of informational privacy. ॥ could very well be debated whether rupees twenty thousand is on the lower or higher range of the spectrum. However, that is not a question for this Court to answer in this batch of petitions. The petitioners have not challenged the threshold of rupees twenty thousand prescribed for the disclosure of information prescribed by Section 29C. They have only raised a challenge to the disclosure exception granted to contributions by Electoral Bonds. Thus, this Court need not determine if the threshold tilts the balance in favour of one of the interests. We are only required to determine if the disclosure of information on financial contributions in a year beyond rupees twenty thousand is an alternative means to achieve the purposes of securing the information on financial contributions and informational privacy regarding political affiliation. 167. It must be recalled that we have held above that the right to information of the voter includes the right to information of financial contributions to a political party because of the influence of money in electoral politics (through electoral outcomes) and governmental decisions (through a seat at the table and quid pro quo arrangements between the contributor and the political party). The underlying rationale of Section 29C(1) is that contributions below the threshold do not have the ability to influence decisions, and the right to information of financial contributions does not extend to contributions which do not have the ability to influence decisions. Similarly, the right to privacy of political affiliations does not extend to contributions which may be made to influence policies. It only extends to contributions made as a genuine form of political support that the disclosure of such [2024] 2 S.C.R. 535 Association for Democratic Reforms & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. information would indicate their political affiliation and curb various forms of political expression and association. 168. It is quite possible that contributions which are made beyond the threshold could also be a form of political support and not necessarily a quid pro quo arrangement, and contributions below the threshold could influence electoral outcomes. However, the restriction on the right to information and informational privacy of such contributions is minimal when compared to a blanket non- disclosure of information on contributions to political parties. Thus, this alternative realizes the objective of securing disclosure for an informed voter and informational privacy to political affiliation in a ‘real and substantial manner’. The measure in the Electoral Bond Scheme completely tilts the balance in favor of the purpose of informational privacy and abrogates informational interests.