The respondents are liable to face trial under Section 420 read with Section 120-B, IPC for the reason that all of them had conspired with each other to dishonestly induce the appellant into marrying respondent no.1 and parting away with huge amount. 8. On the other hand, learned counsel for the respondents submitted that even on the basis of the pleaded facts and the material produced by the appellant before the Magistrate, no offence under Section 420, IPC can be made out. It cannot be said to be a case of criminal conspiracy and no offence of cheating is made out against the respondents. There is no error in the s passed by the Sessions Court or the High Court. There was no concealment or cheating at 542 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the behest of the respondents as they had clearly disclosed all the facts to the appellant from the very beginning. The appeal deserves to be dismissed. 9. Heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the relevant referred record. 10. The appellant and the respondent no.1 came in contact through a matrimonial site. The appellant was already divorced whereas the respondent no.1 had uploaded her status as “process of divorce is under consideration.” After initial conversation, the appellant along with his family members were invited to visit Visakhapatnam, where they had interaction with the respondents. At the time of the meeting the appellant was told that the respondent no.1 was earlier married at Mumbai and the divorce had already taken place. On being asked about the copy of the decree of divorce it was stated that the same is pending for signature of the Judge concerned and will be provided in due course. The respondents had shown to the appellants an unclear photocopy of the decree of divorce which was believed to be true. On 11.03.2018, the appellant gave his consent for the marriage. Date was fixed as 28.04.2018. The respondents pointed out that their financial condition was not good to come to Gwalior for the marriage along with their other relatives. As a result, the appellant booked tickets for the respondents and their relatives from Visakhapatnam to Gwalior and vice-versa, and also gave ₹ 2 lakhs cash to the respondents as expenditure for marriage. 11. On 16.06.2018, on account of some medical complication the appellant as well as the respondent no.1 rushed to the clinic of a lady doctor in Shivpuri (Madhya Pradesh), where couple resided after their marriage. The doctor disclosed that the respondent no.1 was pregnant. The joy of the appellant knew no bounds whereas the respondent no.1 was very sad. The message was even conveyed to the family members of the appellant as well as the respondent no.1. The respondent nos.2 and 3 were not happy. The appellant was surprised with the reaction. Later, when the reason was asked by the appellant from respondent no.1, he was told that she is yet to get divorce from her previous husband. It was a shock of life for the appellant.