(8) When there is propagation of ideas, opinions and informations or public interests or profits, the interests of society may tilt the scales in favour of free speech and expression. Thus books on medical science with intimate illustrations and photographs though in a sense immodest, are not to be considered obscene, but the same illustrations and photographs collected in a book form without the medical text would certainly be considered to be obscene. (9) Obscenity without a preponderating social purpose or profit cannot have the constitutional protection of free speech or expression. Obscenity is treating with sex 1164 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports in a manner appealing to the carnal side of human nature or having that tendency. Such a treating with sex is offensive to modesty and decency. (10) Knowledge is not a part of the guilty act. The offender’s knowledge of the obscenity of the book is not required under the law and it is a case of strict liability.” 18. In Samaresh Bose (supra), which has been relied on by the appellants, this Court differentiated vulgarity from obscenity. The material in question in this case was a Bengali novel titled ‘Prajapati’. The Court noted that while slang and unconventional words had been used in the book along with suggestions of sexual acts, there was no description of any overt act of sex. The words are vulgar and create a feeling of disgust and revulsion and may shock the reader but this does not necessarily amount to obscenity, which is the tendency to deprave and corrupt.35 It held that the use of slang and unconventional words; an emphasis on sex; a description of female bodies; and narrations of feelings, thoughts and actions in vulgar language in the novel do not render the material obscene.36 Further, a mere reference to sex is insufficient for obscenity and does not make a material unsuitable for adolescents.37 19. The Court also summarised the process that must be followed to objectively assess whether some material is obscene. It held that the judge must first place himself in the position of the author to understand his perspective and what he seeks to convey and whether it has any literary or artistic value. The judge must then place himself in the position of a reader of every age group in whose hands the book (or material) is likely to fall and determine the possible effect or influence of the material on the minds of such persons. The relevant portion reads: “29. …As laid down in both the decisions of this Court earlier referred to, “the question whether a particular article or story or book is obscene or not does not altogether depend on oral evidence, because it is the duty of the court 35 Samaresh Bose (supra), para 35 36 ibid, para 35 37 ibid, para 35 [2024] 3 S.C.R. 1165 Apoorva Arora & Anr. Etc. v. State (Govt. of Nct of Delhi) & Anr. to ascertain whether the book or story or any passage or passages therein offend the provisions of Section 292 IPC”.