Internal Antemortem Injuries: 1. (b) Contusions of scalp 17x10 em involving front half and 5x3cm involving right side of back. Inter one is. under neath and around the injury No. 1-(a). 2. (b) (i) contusion 23x9cm involving left front chest wall upper inner end at collar bone and in midline front. [2024] 12 S.C.R. 405 Kunhimuhammed@Kunheethu v. The State of Kerala (ii) Incised penetrating wound 8x0.5x I cm involving left front chest wall (rib cage and inter costal muscles), oblique, which penetrates into chest cavity, with fracture separation of 3rd and 4th ribs and contusion of edges the upper inner end at I 0 cm outer to midline front and 9 cm below middle of collar bone. (iii) Incised penetrating wound 7x2x1.5 em involving left atrium and upper part of left ventricle of heart, which penetrates through entire thickness of antero lateral wall into cavity, tearing mitral valve leaflets, with contusion at the edges of the wound. (iv) Laceration of left lung 4xlx0.5cm involving outer aspect of upper lobe and 2x2x0.5cm including outer aspect · of lower lobe and contusion 6x3 cm involving outer aspect of lower lobe just below the previous injury Injury No. 3 (b) is underneath and corresponds with and continuation of injury no. (3) (a), and total depth of both injuries taken together is 6 cm. 4. (b) (i) Contusion 10x7 cm involving right front chest wall upper inner end at 13 cm belowcollar bone and in midline front. (ii) Incised penetrating wound 4x2x2cm involving right front chest wall (rib cage and intercostale muscles), oblique, penetrates into the chest cavity, with fracture separation of 5th rib, the upper inner end at 9 cm outer to midline front and 20 cm below middle of collar bone, with contusion of edges. (iii) Laceration of right lung 2x1x0.5 cm involving outer aspect of middle lobe. Injury No. (4) (b) is underneath, corresponds with and continuation of injury No. (4) (a) and the total depth of both injuries taken together is 5 cm. 25.3 Among the injuries, some were specifically identified as fatal, including: 406 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports i. Penetrating wounds to the chest and rib cage. These injuries caused significant trauma to the internal organs, including the lungs and heart. ii. Laceration of the heart. The most critical injury involved a penetrating wound measuring 7x2x1.5 cm in the left atrium and the upper part of the left ventricle, which extended through the entire thickness of the anterolateral wall of the heart. This injury also tore the mitral valve leaflets and caused contusions at the edges of the wound. The medical expert opined that this particular injury was sufficient to cause death in the ordinary course of nature. Additionally, other injuries inflicted on the deceased were of such severity that they compounded the fatal outcome. 25.4 This Court held in Virsa Singh vs. State of Pepsu,3 that to see whether the injury intended and thus caused by the accused was sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death or not, it must be examined in each case on the basis of the facts and circumstances.