7) Non-specification of premier hospitals of repute in other States for the purpose of availing reimbursable medical treatment in cases of serious ailments. 8) Non-extension of medical facilities to the family pensioners.” 62. During the course of the hearing, the attention of this Court has been drawn to the situation in the State of Uttar Pradesh by members of the Association representing former judges. It has been submitted that the hospitals which have been empaneled by the State Government for the purpose of cashless facilities are providing sub-standard treatment. As a result, the cashless facilities cannot be availed of by the officers. It has been submitted that since a sufficiently large number of hospitals is empaneled under CGHS (nearly 300 hospitals in the State of Uttar Pradesh alone), the State Government may be directed to follow the hospitals which are empaneled for the purpose of CGHS so as to ensure that the quality of treatment which is extended to the judicial officers and retired judicial officers as well as family pensioners is of a requisite standard. 63. The primary concern which has been expressed by serving judicial officers and by retired officers is that the recommendations made by the SNJPC appear to lower the bench-mark or standard set by the FNJPC of entitling the judicial officers to the same medical facilities as those provided to members of the legislative assembly. 64. Mr K Parameshwar, Amicus Curiae, has submitted that this may not be an appropriate manner of reading the recommendations made by the SNJPC. According to him, the recommendations of the SNJPC should be read holistically and harmoniously with those of the FNJPC. Hence, the recommendations which were made by the FNJPC to have empaneled doctors, hospitals or labs and the recommendations to do away with the referral system must be viewed in addition to the standards which were set by SNJPC. We find force on the submission. 65. The substantive recommendations which are made by the SNJPC are accepted. In exercise of the jurisdiction under Article 142 of the Constitution, we institutionalize the process issuing the following directions in the segment of this which follows. 364 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 15. Newspaper and Magazine Allowances 66. The following recommendations have been made by the SNJPC: “1. Reimbursement for newspaper and magazines shall be Rs.1000/- for District Judges (two newspapers and two magazines) and Rs.700/- for Civil Judges (two newspapers and one magazine). 2. The reimbursement shall be on half yearly basis from January to June and July to December, on the basis of self certification. 3. The allowance at the above mentioned rates shall be available from 01.01.2020. 4. More beneficial provision already in operation in any State shall continue.” 67. The recommendations are accepted. 16. Risk Allowance 68. The SNJPC has considered it reasonable to grant risk allowance. The SNJPC has issued the following recommendations: “1. Risk allowance shall be made available to the Judicial Officers working in the States of Jammu & Kashmir and insurgency affected North East States at the same rate as is available to the Civilian Government officials working in those areas.