Ambedkar’s introduction of the term ‘fraternity’ into the constitutional Preamble 93 the new enCyClopAeDiA BritAnniCA: mACropAeDiA (Encyclopaedia Britannica Inc.), 1974. 94 Decision 99-412 DC of June 15, 1999, Rec. 71 (European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages), para 10. 95 Jeremie GilBert AnD DAviD KeAne, Equality versus fraternity? Rethinking France and its minorities, International Journal of Constitutional Law, 2016, 14(4), 901 and 902. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1059 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 reflects a deliberate intention to use this principle as a means to promote unity and brotherhood.96 In light of Dr. B.R. Ambedkar’s persistent efforts towards eradicating caste discrimination, his subsequent advocacy for fraternity among individuals appears to mirror his commitment to inclusivity. Unlike some Western perspectives, where fraternity may be overshadowed by an emphasis on individual rights, in India, fraternity is distinctly perceived as a vital instrument for realising equality and harmonising the diverse segments of society. It serves as a conduit for transcending societal disparities and working towards collective well-being.97 Therefore, in the Indian constitutional context, fraternity assumes a dynamic and inclusive role, aligning with the broader goals of social justice, equality, and upliftment. (b) Ethos of Section 6A is aligned with fraternity 107. Having examined the contentions presented by the Petitioners, it is imperative to scrutinize whether the preambular value of fraternity would be applicable to the immigrants entering into the State of Assam under the aegis of Section 6A. 108. In this regard, it would be apposite to consider whether such preambular values are justiciable in the first place. In the landmark case of Kesavananda Bharati v. State of Kerala,98 this Court affirmed that while the Preamble may be employed to interpret ambiguous provisions of the Constitution, it, by itself, is not enforceable in a court of law. Indeed, our current comprehension of the preamble is evident. It serves as a tool for interpreting the Constitution and guiding our trajectory. However, akin to the Directive Principles of State Policy (DPSP), it was not envisaged as being directly enforceable. Nevertheless, the discourse on ‘fraternity’ holds relevance in the current context and will undeniably shape our interpretation of the pertinent laws at hand. 109. At this juncture, it would be essential to take into consideration the evolution of the principle of fraternity in terms of judicial construction to get a complete understanding of the meaning and scope of fraternity 96 Dr. B.R. Ambedkar, supra note 85. 97 Id. 98 Kesavananda Bharati v. State of Kerala (1973) 4 SCC 225 1060 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports as it stands today. The Preamble to the Constitution provides us insight into the values that embody the Constitution. The Preamble declares India to be a sovereign, socialist, secular, democratic, and republic and secures justice, equality, liberty, and fraternity for all its citizens. Though the Preamble does not grant any substantive rights and is not enforceable in courts, a plethora of cases have engaged with the Preamble and considered it to be a guiding light in interpreting the provisions of the Constitution.