As a general rule, according to the procedural law, no doubt it is the plaintiff who has to prove his claim by positive proof, for the court has to see whether there is a proof of claim before it needs to enquire, as to the truth or otherwise of the defence. It is open to the plaintiff to say that although he has the right to begin, yet he may rest content with relying upon the averments made in the written statement. Yet evidence need not always be led by the party who has the right to begin and on whom lies the burden of proof; it is open to him to sustain the onus by facts which he may elicit in cross examination of the other party or his witnesses. In to come to the conclusion, concerning on whom the legal burden of proof rests, in addition to the substantive law, the pleadings of the parties coupled with documents that they produced & the admissions, if any concerning such documents have to be taken into account. 12. The High Court looked into the averments made in the plaint, it also looked into the averments made in the written statement and ultimately observed in para 4. The paras 4 and 4.1 read as under:- “4. Considering the submission made by Mr. Mishra, learned counsel for the Plaintiffs/Petitioners and on perusal of the record more particularly the plaint and written statement, it is apparent that although the-defendants have admitted the existence of a document called ‘agreement for sale’, but they have specifically stated that it was a sham transaction and pleadings in tire written statement clearly show that they had never agreed to sell the property. Of course, they have accepted certain amount which they agreed to refund. 650 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 4.1 The aforesaid fact does not ipso facto be construed to be admission of material facts alleged in the plaint. The Defendants have categorically denied that in the written statement they have never agreed to sell the property, which is held by learned trial Court in the impugned . There is also denial of other averments made in the plaint. In that view of the matter. This Court is of the considered opinion: that the provision of XVIII Rule 1 CPC is not applicable to the instant case. Hence, I find no infirmity in the impugned .” 13. The High Court seems to have taken the view and, in our opinion, rightly that although the defence has admitted the existence of a document that is “agreement of sale”, yet they have specifically said that the same is a sham transaction. 14. The High Court is right in saying that the averments made in the written statement sought to be relied upon by the plaintiff does not ipso facto be construed to be admission of materials facts in the alleged plaint. 15. Section 102 of the Evidence Act states that: “The burden of proof in a suit or proceeding lies on that person who would fail if no evidence at all were given on either side.” 16.