v. The State of Madhya Pradesh & Ors. Authority, the father and grandparents of the child shall be permitted to meet the child till 05.00 p.m.; c. The secretary of the District Legal Service Authority shall take the assistance of a child psychologist or a psychiatrist (preferably female) working in any local public hospital. If such experts are unavailable, the secretary shall privately engage one such expert at the appellants’ cost. The appellants will pay necessary charges as and when called upon by the secretary. The payment will be subject to the outcome of the proceedings for grant of custody; d. The expert so appointed shall remain present at the time of access. The expert’s duty will be to persuade the child to interact with her father and grandparents. As regards the mode and manner of allowing the father and grandparents to meet the child, the parties and the secretary of the District Legal Service Authority shall be guided by the opinion of the expert; e. As assured to the Court, the appellants or some of them shall file a petition seeking a declaration of guardianship and permanent custody of the child under the provisions of the GW Act before the competent Court within a maximum period of two months from today; f. The concerned Court in which the application will be filed shall pass further s regarding the grant of access and/or overnight custody to the husband and the grandparents. Further interim directions regarding access, overnight access, etc., shall be issued by the competent Court in which the appellants apply for custody. To enable the said court to pass an appropriate interim , we direct that the interim arrangement made as above for the grant of access to the father and the grandparents will continue to operate for four months from today. Thereafter, the competent Court will deal with the prayer for interim relief on its own merits. Needless to add, in the event the husband and/or grandparents apply for custody, the application filed by them and the application filed by the appellants shall be heard together, and g. In the event of failure of both parties to apply to the competent Court, the parties will be free to apply to this Court for appropriate directions. 74 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 15. The appeal is, accordingly, partly allowed on the above terms. 16. We direct the registry to immediately forward a copy of this to the secretary of the District Legal Service Authority at District Panna, State of Madhya Pradesh, who shall act upon the copy of the provided by the registry of this Court. If the secretary of the District Legal Service Authority needs any further directions from this Court, it will be open for him to submit a report to the Registrar (Judicial) of this Court, who shall immediately place the same before this Bench and/or the appropriate Bench. 17. There will be no s as to costs. Result of the case: Appeal partly allowed †Headnotes prepared by: Nidhi Jain