All this may seduce the mind and propel it to condone the total denial of opportunity. A conscious effort needs to be made to steer clear of that trap. 46. The principle of prejudice as set out in S.K. Sharma’s case (supra) had absolutely no application to the present case as the present was 214 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports a case of complete denial of opportunity. The exception was wrongly invoked and misapplied to the facts of the present case. Question No.3 Does the violation at the original stage of the principles of natural justice stand cured by the revisional proceeding? :- 47. The second reason given by the learned Single Judge and affirmed by the Division Bench was that the appellants had full opportunity before the revisional authority and the High Court. The relevant finding from the of the learned Single Judge is extracted hereinbelow:- “17. Even though when the appeal was filed by respondent Smt. Archana Mishra before the Collector, petitioners were never heard and the Collector passed the without hearing the petitioners, the matter did not end there. Petitioners availed of the opportunity of filing a revision before the Commissioner. When the matter travelled to the Commissioner in this manner, full opportunity of hearing was granted to the petitioners and the entire selection record and other documents, which formed the basis for passing of the by the Collector, were available before the Commissioner, petitioners had access to the same and Commissioner decided the revision afresh on merits after considering each and every objection of the petitioners. Thereafter, during the course of hearing in this petition also, the entire selection proceedings and other documents were available on record and the petitioners were given full opportunity to demonstrate before this Court that their selection was proper or that the finding with regard to their relatives participating in the selection process is an incorrect or improper finding. Petitioners admitted that their relatives had participated in the selection, but only argued that their presence did not influence their selection. This is a matter which can be looked into on the basis of the material available on record and during the course of hearing of this petition, the petitioners were not in a position to demonstrate as to what was the prejudice caused for non-grant of hearing by the Collector. Even if no hearing was granted before the Collector, but when [2024] 4 S.C.R. 215 Krishnadatt Awasthy v. State of Madhya Pradesh & Ors. full opportunity of hearing was granted and was availed of by the petitioners before the Commissioner in the revision and when the Commissioner had passed the after so hearing the petitioners, merely because petitioners were not impleaded as party in the proceedings held before the Collector it cannot be said that the entire action of the appellate authority and the revisional authority stands vitiated on this ground. This is a case where petitioners had ample opportunity of putting up their defence and objections before the Commissioner and the Commissioner having appreciated the dispute on merits after hearing the petitioners, this court is not inclined to interfere in the matter merely on the technical ground of non-grant of opportunity.