Any change in the terms and conditions shall be made known to all the candidates so that they could act accordingly. As mandated under Article 16 of the Constitution of India, equal opportunity shall be given to all in matters of public employment. In this regard, the learned counsel appearing for the petitioners has submitted that although almost all the petitioners belong to OBC category, they did not get an opportunity to get their names sponsored as OBC candidates. There is no statement in the writ petition in support of his submission but when he made the submission during the course of hearing, the same was not denied by any of the counsels appearing for the respondents. It may also be noted at this juncture that the grievance of the petitioner in W.P. (C) No. 127 of 2012 is that in spite of her name being sponsored as OBC candidate, she had been treated as unreserved candidate and accordingly, her name was not included in the impugned list of OBC 26 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports candidates, though she secured more marks than many of the candidates shown in the said OBC list. Thus, it is not clear as to how the candidates were sponsored by the Employment Officer. At the time of getting his/her name sponsored, was the concerned person required to indicate whether he/she belongs to OBC category because by then, the OM dated 27-12-2006 had not yet been issued at all? Or is it the case that the candidates were sponsored by the Employment Officer based on the information furnished by the person concered at the time of registration of his name in the employment exchange and if that be so, why was the petitioner in W.P. (C) No. 127 of 2012 denied the benefit of being OBC candidate. On a query put to the learned Government Advocate by this court in this regard, he was unable to give a concrete answer saying that the Government file was silent about it. No additional affidavit in compliance with the dated 10-09-2015 passed by this court, has been filed by the State respondents in respect of similar queries. In the present case, in the Notice dated 12-09-2006, it is specifically provided as under: 1) Primary Teacher Gen. Category 910 ST 442 SC 29 Phy. Handicapped 42 1423 ……. ……. ……. …… ……. It is nowhere mentioned in the said notice that certain seats are reserved for the OBC category and on the contrary, when the result of the selection was declared, the names of as many as 242 candidates were shown to have been selected against the seats reserved for the OBC category. To contend that the criteria cannot be changed after the process for selection has commenced, the learned counsel appearing for the petitioners has placed reliance on the decision of the Hon’ble Supreme Court in the case of Madan Mohan Sharma Vs. State of Rajasthan & ors, reported in [2024] 10 S.C.R. 27 Khunjamayum Bimoti Devi v. The State of Manipur & Ors.