The relevant extract from the ruling of the Court is reproduced below: “29. We thus hold that mere presence of a body on the railway premises will not be conclusive to hold that injured or deceased was a bona fide passenger for which claim for compensation could be maintained. However, mere absence of ticket with such injured or deceased will not negative the claim that he was a bona fide passenger. Initial burden will be on the claimant which can be discharged by filing an affidavit of the relevant facts and burden will then shift on the Railways and the issue can be decided on the facts shown or the attending circumstances. This will have to be dealt with from case to case on the basis of facts found. The legal position in this regard will stand explained accordingly.” (emphasis supplied) 14. In the present case, the appellant had duly filed an affidavit stating the facts and adverting to the report arising from the investigation conducted by the respondent, which showed that the deceased was travelling on the train and that his death was caused by a fall during the course of his travel. The burden of proof then shifted to the Railways, which has not discharged its burden. Therefore, the presumption that the deceased was a bona fide passenger on the train in question was not rebutted. 15. Further, the report of the IO indicates the details mentioned in the post-mortem report. It states that the cause of death was due to an injury sustained on the head and that all injuries were antemortem and caused by “blunt force impact”. It also states that forty-eight to seventy-two hours had passed since the time of death. 398 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 16. The High Court noticed the time of death estimated by the post- mortem report. From this, it concluded that it was not possible to hold that the deceased died on 5 September 2003 because the post-mortem examination was conducted on 9 September 2003 at about 1:30 pm. It appears that the High Court was of the opinion that the deceased died later than 5 September 2003 because the post-mortem report indicated that forty-eight to seventy-two hours had passed since the time of death. However, the High Court did not notice that the IO indicated that the deceased fell off the train at approximately 11:15 pm on 5 September 2003. 17. Seventy-two hours prior to the conduct of the post-mortem would be about 1:30 pm on 6 December 2003. This would be about thirteen to fourteen hours after the deceased fell off the train. Conclusions in post-mortem reports as to the time of death are approximations. This is also indicated by the fact that they usually provide a window of time in which the deceased may have died. A margin of error of about half a day in cases where compensation is at issue is not disproportionate, where the evidence is otherwise corroborated by the material on record.