Courts do not act as 188 [2024] 1 S.C.R. DIGITAL SUPREME COURT REPORTS appellate authorities over policies framed by the statutory regulator and may interfere only when it is found that the actions are arbitrary or violative of constitutional or statutory mandates. The court cannot examine the correctness, suitability, or appropriateness of the policy, particularly when it is framed by a specialized regulatory agency in collaboration with experts. The court cannot interfere merely because in its opinion a better alternative is available. 16. In Prakash Gupta v. SEBI,10 this Court speaking through one of us (DY Chandrachud, J), observed that the Court must be mindful of the public interest that guides the functioning of SEBI and should refrain from substituting its own wisdom over the actions of SEBI. The Court held: “101. Therefore, the SEBI Act and the rules, regulations and circulars made or issued under the legislation, are constantly evolving with a concerted aim to enforce in the securities market and promote its healthy growth while protecting investor wealth […] 102. In a consistent line of precedent, this Court has been mindful of the public interest that guides the functioning of SEBI and has refrained from substituting its own wisdom over the actions of SEBI. Its wide regulatory and adjudicatory powers, coupled with its expertise and information gathering mechanisms, imprints its decisions with a degree of credibility. The powers of the SAT and the Court would necessarily have to align with SEBI’s larger existential purpose.” 17. From the above exposition of law, the following principles emerge: a. Courts do not and cannot act as appellate authorities examining the correctness, suitability, and appropriateness of a policy, nor are courts advisors to expert regulatory agencies on matters of policy which they are entitled to formulate; b. The scope of judicial review, when examining a policy framed by a specialized regulator, is to scrutinize whether it (i) violates 10 2021 SCC OnLine SC 485. [2024] 1 S.C.R. 189 VISHAL TIWARI v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS the fundamental rights of the citizens; (ii) is contrary to the provisions of the Constitution; (iii) is opposed to a statutory provision; or (iv) is manifestly arbitrary. The legality of the policy, and not the wisdom or soundness of the policy, is the subject of judicial review; c. When technical questions arise – particularly in the domain of economic or financial matters – and experts in the field have expressed their views and such views are duly considered by the statutory regulator, the resultant policies or subordinate legislative framework ought not to be interfered with; d. SEBI’s wide powers, coupled with its expertise and robust information-gathering mechanism, lend a high level of credibility to its decisions as a regulatory, adjudicatory and prosecuting agency; and e. This Court must be mindful of the public interest that guides the functioning of SEBI and refrain from substituting its own wisdom in place of the actions of SEBI. We have made a conscious effort to keep the above principles in mind while adjudicating the petitions, which contain several prayers that require the Court to enter SEBI’s domain.