The framers of the Constitution may not have been aware of many industrial uses of alcohol and that all alcohol is neither consumable by humans nor intoxicating in nature; and j. The Report of the Industrial Alcohol Committee in 1920 observed that it was difficult to define ‘intoxicating liquors’ since there was no intrinsic difference between alcohol intended for potable and non-potable purposes. 37. Mr Tushar Mehta, learned Solicitor General of India, argued that the adjudication on the interplay of Sections 2 and 18G of the IDRA with Entry 52 of List I and Entry 33 of List III will have a bearing on other legislation and therefore the ruling in this case may not be restricted to the industry of alcohol. The division of legislative 64 [2002] 1 SCR 441 : (2002) 9 SCC 232 1982 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports powers has undergone four stages: (a) the devolution of powers to the Federal legislature and the Provincial legislatures under the Devolution Rules, Government of India Act 1919;65 (b) the division of subjects between the Centre and the Provinces under the 1935 Act; (c) the draft Constitution which was placed before the Constituent Assembly; and (d) the entries as they were finally adopted in the Constitution. The Solicitor General submitted that: a. Some industries have always been considered as necessarily under Union control. This may be because it is in national interest, requires uniform regulation throughout the country, or when the industry or its products are sought to be equitably distributed. Entry 52 of List I is in furtherance of the federal principle; b. Entry 20 of the Central Subject List in the Devolution Rules framed under the 1919 Act which corresponds to Entry 52 of List I of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution used the term ‘development’. A similar provision was inserted as Entry 34, List I of the Seventh Schedule to the 1935 Act which also used the term ‘development’. This entry was further retained as Entry 64 of List I of the Seventh Schedule to the draft Constitution. However, after debates in the Constituent Assembly the entry gained the form in which it appears today in Entry 52 of List I. The word ‘development’ was dropped from the entry but the word ‘control’ was retained. Therefore, the term ‘control’ must have been intended to connote a wider meaning than its earlier versions; c. This is borne out by the Constituent Assembly debates where Dr BR Ambedkar responded to amendments which sought to introduce the term ‘development and control’ in draft Entry 64, List I. He stated that the intention of the Drafting Committee was not merely to allow the Union to take over the development of an industry but also other aspects; d. Tika Ramji (supra) must be overruled because: i. It did not consider the Constituent Assembly debates and wrongly restricted the meaning of industry to manufacturing and production only; 65 “1919 Act” [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1983 State of U.P. & Ors.