Therefore, it cannot be said that the first respondent herein (Sheil) remained absent. On the contrary, it was present at all hearings. Nothing is placed on record to show that simultaneously with the arbitral proceedings based on the claim of Marico, any meeting or date was fixed by the learned Arbitrator for hearing the claim of Sheil. The first meeting on Sheil’s claim was fixed on 11th March 2020 when COVID-19 pandemic had already set in. 18. The application made by the first appellant under Section 32(2)(c) of the Arbitration Act, in short, raised the following contentions: a. Sheil did not bother to pursue its claim for eight years after filing the statement of claim; b. Sheil did not attend the meeting of 11th March 2020; c. Sheil attended the next meeting held on 12th August 2020 and informed the learned Arbitrator that it wished to press its claim and d. Sheil has abandoned its claim. 19. Sheil filed an affidavit in reply to the said application filed by the first appellant. In the reply, a contention has been raised that the reference filed by Marico was taken up first and therefore, till the 774 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports award was made on 6th May 2017, there was no requirement on the part of Sheil to take any further steps. The affidavit of evidence of Mr. Sanjay Patel was affirmed on 16th April 2017 and was kept ready. Sheil has pleaded that there was a requirement to change its advocate. After Sheil engaged the services of M/s. Markand Gandhi & Co., its senior partner fell ill and died on 1st May 2018. As regards the meeting held on 11th March 2020, Sheil claimed that it had deputed one Mr Utsav Ghosh to attend the meeting. He reached late after the meeting dispersed. 20. The question is whether Sheil abandoned its claim filed before the learned Arbitrator. As stated earlier, Sheil regularly attended meetings held to hear Marico’s claim. During the period during which the claim of Marico was heard, at no stage, the learned Arbitrator suggested that the claim of Sheil could be heard simultaneously. On the contrary, from the conduct of the parties and the learned Arbitrator, an inference can be drawn that Marico’s claim was given priority. Two meetings were convened in March 2020 in connection with Sheil’s claim. In March 2020, the COVID-19 was spreading its wings in our country. The second meeting in March 2020 was admittedly not held. In any case, there is no express abandonment. Even if it is to be implied, there must be convincing circumstances on record which lead to an inevitable inference about the abandonment. In the facts of the case, there was no abandonment either express or implied. In a case where the claim is abandoned, the learned Arbitrator can take the view that it would be unnecessary to continue the proceedings based on the already abandoned claim. In this case, the inference of the abandonment has been drawn by the learned Arbitrator only on the grounds that Sheil did not challenge the Marico award and took no steps to convene the meeting of the Arbitral Tribunal.