While noting the provisions, more specifically, Section 34(4) of the A&C Act; the decisions rendered by this Court, including the principles of international law enunciated in several decisions recorded in the treatise “Redfern and Hunter on International Arbitration, 6th Edition”, this Court in National Highways Authority of India v. M. Hakeen and Another3, categorically held that any court under Section 34 would have no jurisdiction to modify the arbitral award, which at best, given the same to be in conflict with the grounds specified under Section 34 would be wholly unsustainable in law. The Court categorically observed that any attempt to “modify an award” under Section 34 would amount to “crossing the Lakshman Rekha”. 15. On the exact same issue we may also note another opinion rendered by this Court in Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited v. Navigant Technologies Private Limited4 in the following terms:- 3 (2021) 9 SCC 1 (2-JudgeBench) 4 (2021) 7 SCC 657 (2-Judge Bench) [2024] 1 S.C.R. 291 S.V. Samudram v. State of Karnataka & Anr “44. In law, where the court sets aside the award passed by the majority members of the Tribunal, the underlying disputes would require to be decided afresh in an appropriate proceeding. Under Section 34 of the Arbitration Act, the court may either dismiss the objections filed, and uphold the award, or set aside the award if the grounds contained in sub-sections (2) and (2-A) are made out. There is no power to modify an arbitral award. In McDermott International Inc. v. Burn Standard Co. Ltd. [McDermott International Inc. v. Burn Standard Co. Ltd., (2006) 11 SCC 181] , this Court held as under : (SCC p. 208, para 52) “52. The 1996 Act makes provision for the supervisory role of courts, for the review of the arbitral award only to ensure fairness. Intervention of the court is envisaged in few circumstances only, like, in case of fraud or bias by the arbitrators, violation of natural justice, etc. The court cannot correct errors of the arbitrators. It can only quash the award leaving the parties free to begin the arbitration again if it is desired. So, the scheme of the provision aims at keeping the supervisory role of the court at minimum level and this can be justified as parties to the agreement make a conscious decision to exclude the court’s jurisdiction by opting for arbitration as they prefer the expediency and finality offered by it.” (Emphasis Supplied) 16. The principle stands reiterated as late as 2023 in Larsen Air Conditioning and Refrigration Companyv.Union of India & Others5. 17. We may notice certain principles to be considered in adjudication of challenges to arbitration proceedings of this nature. It is a settled principle of law that arbitral proceedings are per se not comparable to judicial proceedings before the Court (Dyna Technologies Private Limited v. Crompton Greaves Limited6). The Arbitrator’s view, generally is considered to be binding upon the parties unless it is 5 2023 SCC OnLine 982 (2-Judge Bench) 6 (2019) 20 SCC 1 (3-Judge Bench) 292 [2024] 1 S.C.R.