As discussed above, IEAA is only one of the statutes that addressed a specific problem that existed in 1950. The issue of undesirable immigration in 1950 necessitated the promulgation of the IEAA and the granting of power to the Central government to expel such immigrants. On the contrary, the provisions of Section 6A have to be viewed from the focal point of 1971, when Bangladesh was formed as a new nation and an understanding was reached to grant citizenship to certain classes of immigrants who had migrated from erstwhile East Pakistan, as has been detailed in paragraphs 230 and 231 of this judgement. Hence, Section 6A, when examined from this perspective, is seen to have a different objective—one of granting citizenship to certain classes of immigrants, particularly deemed citizenship to those immigrants who came to India before 01.01.1966 and qualified citizenship, to those who came on or after 01.01.1966 and before 25.03.1971. 380. Since the two statutes operate in different spheres, we find no conflict existing between them. The Parliament was fully conversant with the dynamics and realities, while enacting both the Statutes. The field of operation of the two enactments being distinct and different and there being a presumption of the Legislature having informed knowledge about their consequences, we decline to hold that Section 6A is in conflict with a differently situated statute, namely the IEAA. 381. Instead, we are satisfied that IEAA and Section 6A can be read harmoniously along with other statutes. As held in Sarbananda Sonawal (supra), none of these Statutes exist as a standalone code but rather supplement each other. 382. We may also hasten to add that the present reference is restricted and limited to the constitutional validity of Section 6A, and the extent of applicability of IEAA is not the subject matter of reference. As discussed earlier, there are multiple statutory enactments to address 1144 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the influx of immigrants in Assam, namely Section 6A of the Citizenship Act, the Foreigners Act, 1946, the Foreigners (Tribunals) , 1964, the Passport (Entry into India) Act, 1920 and the Passport Act, 1967. Hence, in our view, the IEAA must be effectively applied along with all other Statutes which occupy similar or related fields and are, in a way, complementary to each other. xii. Interface with international law 383. In support of the constitutionality of Section 6A, the Respondents have argued that an international norm against statelessness exists, and thus, the Court should harmonize the interpretation of domestic law with international law. They contend that holding Section 6A unconstitutional would potentially render these immigrants stateless, and therefore, the Court should refrain from invalidating this provision. 384. In light of the discussion in the foregoing sections, since we have not been able to persuade ourselves to strike down Section 6A on the strength of the contentions of Petitioners, the need to examine the issue of statelessness does not arise and is rendered academic. 385. The Petitioners too have invoked Article 27 of the ICCPR, to argue that since Section 6A impacts the culture of original inhabitants, it therefore violates Article 27.