359 State by the Inspector of Police v. B. Ramu No. 235 of 2021 registered at P.S. Erode Taluk, District-Erode was allowed and the respondent-accused was granted anticipatory bail in connection with the aforesaid FIR registered for the offences punishable under Sections 8(c), 20(b)(ii)(c) and 29(1) of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 (hereinafter being referred to as ‘NDPS Act’). 3. On perusal of the case records, it becomes apparent that on search of the house of Brinda/A1 and Kesavan/A2, both were found to be in possession of 232.5 kg of ganja. The respondent-accused herein was indicted as being the conspirator for procurement/supply of the ganja so recovered. 4. As per the schedule to the NDPS Act, the commercial quantity of ganja is 20kg. It is thus not in dispute that the quantity of the narcotic substance seized in this case is well above commercial quantity. 5. The learned Public Prosecutor appearing for the State in the High Court opposed the prayer for grant of anticipatory bail to the respondent-accused herein. The High Court considered the application for grant of anticipatory bail and allowed the same in the following manner:- “3. The learned counsel appearing for the petitioner submitted that the petitioner has not committed any offence as alleged by the prosecution and he has been falsely implicated in this case. He further submitted that all the cases were put up cases by the police in to implicated him. Further he also submits that all the accused were arrested and all were released in the Trial Court in statutory bail. Hence, he prays for grant of anticipatory bail. 4. The learned Additional Public Prosecutor appearing for the respondent submitted that 3 previous cases pending against the petitioner, investigation almost completed. However, he vehemently opposed to grant anticipatory bail to the petitioner. 5. Considering the facts and circumstances of the case, this Court is inclined to grant anticipatory bail to the petitioner with certain conditions. 360 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 6. Accordingly, the petitioner is directed to be released on bail in the event of arrest or on his appearance, within a period of fifteen (15) days after lifting of lockdown or the commencement of the Court’s normal functioning whichever is earlier, before the learned Judicial Magistrate - I, Erode, on condition that the petitioner shall execute a bond for a sum of Rs.10,000/- (Rupees Ten Thousand only) with two sureties, each for a like sum to the satisfaction of the respondent police or the police officer who intends to arrest or to the satisfaction of the learned Magistrate concerned, 3/6 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis Crl.O.P.No.1067 of 2022 failing which, the petition for anticipatory bail shall stand dismissed and on further condition that: [a] the petitioner is directed to deposit a sum of Rs.30,000/- (Rupees Thirty Thousand only) to the credit of the Registered Tamil Nadu Advocate Clerk Association, Chennai within a period of two weeks from the date of receipt of a copy of this and shall produce the said receipt before the Court below.