9. The appellant was taken into custody on 11.08.2023. He was already in custody from 25.08.2022 in ECIR No. 4 of 2022. His application for bail was rejected by the Special Judge on 20.09.2023. He preferred a bail application before the High Court. The High Court has declined bail to the appellant. Aggrieved, the appellant is before us. 10. We have heard Mr. Ranjit Kumar, Learned Senior counsel for the appellant, ably assisted by Mr. Indrajit Sinha and Mr. Siddharth Naidu, learned advocates. We have also heard Mr. S.V. Raju, Learned Additional Solicitor General, ably assisted by Mr. Zoheb Hussain and Mr. Kanu Agarwal for the respondents. Learned Senior Counsels on both sides have placed their respective contentions and also filed detailed written submissions. [2024] 8 S.C.R. 961 Prem Prakash v. Union of India Through The Directorate of Enforcement SECTION 45 PMLA-CONTOURS 11. Considering that the present is a bail application for the offence under Section 45 of PMLA, the twin conditions mentioned thereof become relevant. Section 45(1) of PMLA reads as under:- “45. Offences to be cognizable and non-bailable. (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), no person accused of an offence [under this Act] shall be released on bail or on his own bond unless- (i) the Public Prosecutor has been given an opportunity to oppose the application for such release; and (ii) where the Public Prosecutor opposes the application, the court is satisfied that there are reasonable grounds for believing that he is not guilty of such offence and that he is not likely to commit any offence while on bail: Provided that a person, who, is under the age of sixteen years, or is a woman or is sick or infirm or is accused either on his own or along with other co-accused of money- laundering a sum of less than one crore rupees, may be released on bail, if the Special Court so directs: Provided further that the Special Court shall not take cognizance of any offence punishable under Section 4 except upon a complaint in writing made by- (i) the Director; or (ii) any officer of the Central Government or a State Government authorised in writing in this behalf by the Central Government by a general or special made in this behalf by that Government.” In Vijay Madanlal Choudhary and Ors. Vs Union of India and Ors. reported in (2022) SCC OnLine SC 929, this Court categorically held that while Section 45 of PMLA restricts the right of the accused to grant of bail, it could not be said that the conditions provided under Section 45 impose absolute restraint on the grant of bail. Para 131 is extracted hereinbelow:- 962 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “131. It is important to note that the twin conditions provided under Section 45 of the 2002 Act, though restrict the right of the accused to grant of bail, but it cannot be said that the conditions provided under Section 45 impose absolute restraint on the grant of bail.