The Court further went on to underscore the significance of fraternity in shaping economic policies and stated thus:103 “The primary task of the State is the provision of security to all its citizens, without violating human dignity. This would necessarily imply the undertaking of tasks that would prevent the emergence of great dissatisfaction, and disaffection, on account of the manner and mode of extraction, and distribution, of natural resources and organization of social action, its benefits and costs.” [Emphasis supplied] 114. The very scope of fraternity beyond just being an ideal in the Preamble was thus expanded to be a principle that would create checks and balances on the system of governance and state actions. 115. Having examined the notion of fraternity from various perspectives, it can be deduced that the essence of fraternity, therefore, is 102 Nandini Sundar v. State of Chhattisgarh (2011) 7 SCC 547 103 Id, para 25. 1062 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports fundamentally geared towards fostering interconnectedness among Indians and was envisaged to be a principle for uplifting marginalised sections of society. 116. Consequently, it might be antithetical to the essence of fraternity to deploy this inclusive constitutional value in a way which deliberately excludes large swathes of the population, who have been duly conferred citizenship through procedure established by law, from the protection of constitutional rights. In fact, our understanding of fraternity, as also applied by this Court in Indian Medical Association v. Union of India (supra), is that it encourages, if not compels, people to fraternise and intermingle with people dissimilar to them. 117. In many ways, the Petitioners want fraternity to be interpreted in a highly restrictive manner, which allows them to choose their neighbours. Since this approach runs contrary to the very idea and ethos of fraternity that was envisaged by the Constituent Assembly and as subsequently interpreted by this Court, it cannot be accepted. Our reading of the Constitution and precedents is that fraternity requires people of different backgrounds and social circumstances to ‘live and let live’. The nomenclature of fraternity itself is self- explanatory to the extent that it exhibits the notion of inclusiveness and togetherness, as opposed to restricted applicability. Thus, it becomes imperative to refrain from employing this concept in a negative manner that selectively applies it to a particular segment while labelling another faction as ‘illegal immigrants’, solely based on the alleged unconstitutionality of Section 6A. 118. In this light, when faced with the dilemma of disenfranchising millions or safeguarding a community’s endogamous way of life, this Court would certainly be compelled by the principles of fraternity to prioritize the former. Thus, in our considered view, the Petitioners contentions in this regard deserve to be rejected. iv. Part II and Section 6A (a) Section 6A and Articles 6, 7 and 11 of the Constitution 119. The Petitioners argued that our Constitution exhaustively addresses the conferment of citizenship to individuals who migrated from present-day Bangladesh and that the Parliament cannot legislate [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1063 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 to the contrary without amending the Constitution.