He also concurred with the view expressed by the Judicial Member that there was no suppression or misrepresentation of material fact by the respondent. Therefore, the extended period was not available to the revenue. He further held that the respondent is entitled to the credit of the duty paid on the goods received from the Jammu unit as well as credit of the countervailing duty paid on the imported goods. That being the position, he held that the credit and the rebate were rightly availed of by the respondent. Question of refund of the same did not arise. Further, no penalty can be imposed on the respondent. 5.12. Following the opinion rendered by the third member, the matter was placed before the two-member Bench of CESTAT. In view of the majority decision, the appeal filed by the respondent was allowed vide the dated 16.04.2015. 280 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 6. This Court by the dated 08.02.2016 had issued notice. Thereafter, the appeal was admitted on 18.11.2019. 7. Respondent has filed counter affidavit supporting the of CESTAT and has sought for dismissal of the appeal. In response thereto, appellant has filed rejoinder affidavit reiterating the grounds urged in the appeal. 8. Learned counsel for the appellant has laid great emphasis on the fact that the activity undertaken by the respondent at its Taloja unit i.e. putting labels on the two sides of the cartons which were already labelled at Jammu, cannot be said to be a manufacturing activity. Note 3 to Chapter 18 of the Central Excise and Tariff Act cannot be read in a manner to hold that the activity of labelling amounted to manufacture. Learned counsel, therefore, contended that appellant was fully justified in passing the in original. CESTAT was divided in its opinion as to whether such an activity could be termed as manufacture. The Technical Member had given good reasons as to why such an activity cannot be called manufacture while differing from the view taken by the Judicial Member. The third member has erred in concurring with the view taken by the Judicial Member. He, therefore, submits that the passed by the CESTAT by way of majority should be interfered with and in original should be restored. 9. Mr. V. Sridharan, learned senior counsel in his brief submission referred to Note 3 to Chapter 18 of the Central Excise Tariff Act, both prior to its amendment with effect from 01.03.2008 and post amendment. According to him, Parliament has consciously replaced the word ‘and’ by the word ‘or’ and post amendment, it is clear that the activity of labelling or re-labelling amounted to manufacture. He, therefore, supports the decision of the CESTAT and seeks dismissal of the appeal. 10. Submissions made by learned counsel for the parties have received the due consideration of the Court. 11. The core issue to be considered is whether the activity of labelling carried out by the respondent amounts to manufacture? While contention of the appellant is that the same does not amount to manufacture, on the other hand according to the respondent, as per Note 3 to Chapter 18 of the Central Excise Tariff Act, the above activity amounts to manufacture.