A perusal of the passed by Scrutiny Committee reveals that the request of complainants for cross- examination of Vice-Principal was not accepted for the reason that the said person came as a presenter of the original student register on behalf of Principal of the college, and being representative, he does not automatically become witness of the applicant. 15. Now, when the Scrutiny Committee which is principally tasked with the fact-finding exercise for validation of caste claim, had applied its mind and reached a conclusion, then in such a situation, whether a roving enquiry by High Court was required? It is well settled that High Courts as well as Supreme Court should refrain themselves from deeper probe into factual issues like an appellate body unless the inferences made by the concerned authority suffers from perversity on the face of it or are impermissible in the eyes of law. In the instant case, the passed by Scrutiny Committee reflects due appreciation of evidence and application of mind and in absence of any allegation of bias/malice or lack of jurisdiction, disturbing the findings of Scrutiny Committee cannot be sustained. 16. In view of the above discussion, if we take a look at the findings of the High Court in said perspective and deal with each findings individually, it would rather burden the unnecessarily and therefore, we deem it appropriate to confine our analysis only to those findings by which the High Court has upset the reasonings adopted by Scrutiny Committee to admit those two documents, i.e., the bona-fide certificate of Appellant’s grandfather and indenture of tenancy of year 1932 to allow the claim of Appellant. With respect to bona-fide certificate, the High Court opined that the Scrutiny Committee did not deal with the observations made by Vigilance Cell that the original student register was not produced by the Vice- Principal for inspection and that the handwriting and ink of the last two entries made in the said register did not match. The High Court itself perused the coloured photocopy of the last page of the register 146 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports and affirmed the difference in handwriting and the ink by appreciating the said evidence. On the other hand, insofar as the indenture of tenancy of year 1932 is concerned, the High Court in contradiction with the Scrutiny Committee was of the view that the alleged rent agreement was relied upon by Appellant much later in time, coupled with the fact that it did not make any sense for a landlord and tenant in a private rent agreement to mention the caste of tenant. The High Court further observed that to substantiate the rent agreement, the Scrutiny Committee heavily relied upon the affidavit of one Smt. Radha Adukiya, i.e., the granddaughter of the erstwhile landlord who rented the property in favour of Appellant’s grandfather. In the said affidavit, Smt. Akudia deposed that her grandfather rented the property in favour of Appellant’s grandfather and further identified his signatures too. Smt. Akudiya at the time of deposition herself was about 82 years of age and she recognized the signatures of her grandfather on an agreement allegedly executed 55 years back.