The witness, while deposing on oath, made grave improvements in his testimony inasmuch as in his previous statement under Section 161 CrPC, he had clearly stated that he was at his house at the time of alleged incident and that he received a call from the father of the deceased, Mohammad Iqbal Memon (PW-14), about the attack made on the deceased. Thus, Mustaq (PW-13) spoke a blatant lie in his deposition while trying to assume the status of an eyewitness without actually being present at the crime scene. His claim in this regard is further belied by the testimony of Mohammad Iqbal Memon (PW-14), who stated on oath that it was he who had informed Mustaq (PW-13) about the incident. It was contended that if at all Mustaq (PW-13) was present at the place of incident, then he would have been the one to inform the father of the deceased, Mohammad Iqbal Memon (PW-14) about the incident and not the other way around. 10.9 That the evidence of Demistalkumar (PW-12) and K.N. Waghela, Head Constable (PW-16) completely contradicts the evidence of the so-called eyewitnesses Mustaq (PW-13) and first informant, Mohammad Arif Memon (PW-11) and brings their presence at the crime scene under a grave shadow of doubt. 10.10 That the first informant, Mohammad Arif Memon (PW-11), stated on oath that two other persons, namely, Mehboob Abdul 3 [2008] 3 SCR 1078 : (2008) 5 SCC 368 356 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Rehman Memon and Irfanbhai Memon, being the colleagues of the deceased were also present at the spot. However, these two persons were not examined in evidence for reasons best known to the prosecution. 10.11 That the first informant, Mohammad Arif Memon (PW-11) did not make any claim in the FIR that he too had sustained an injury in the alleged incident. However, he later claimed that he was also injured in the incident, upon which he was medically examined on the next day of the incident by Dr. Arvindbhai (PW-2). The doctor (PW-2) admitted in his cross-examination that the injury No.2 could be the result of itching and scratching. 10.12 That the first informant, Mohammad Arif Memon (PW-11) claimed in his evidence that he lifted the victim and placed him in a rickshaw, after he had been indiscriminately assaulted by the accused appellants using sharp weapons. However, he admitted not having received any blood stains either on his person or on his clothes, which was bound to happen if he had actually assisted in boarding the profusely bleeding victim on to the rickshaw. 10.13 That none of the so-called eyewitnesses were actually present at the crime scene; they never saw the incident and a case of blind murder had been foisted upon the accused appellants because of prior enmity. 10.14 That the trial Court and the High Court heavily relied on the circumstance that the accused appellants had collected weapons in the dicky of the scooter. However, neither any scooter was recovered by the police nor did any witness gave evidence in support of the above allegation.