18. He also submitted that the suit land is an estate within the meaning of Section 54 of CPC and the procedure prescribed therein is applicable in the present case. 19. As per Section 97 of the Regulation, 1886, certain pre-conditions are required to be fulfilled for a person claiming partition. From the lower Court records as recorded in the dated 16.07.2011 in TS 83/2004 as well as the Final and dated 22.08.2022 in RSA No. 243 of 2014, it is evident the appellant did not meet these requirements, thereby rendering the claim for partition untenable. D. ANALYSIS 20. The short point that falls for our consideration is whether the High Court committed any error in taking view that the suit filed by the appellant herein was barred under Section 154(1)(e) of the Regulation, 1886 referred to above. 21. Section 97 of the Regulation, 1886 reads thus: “97. Persons entitled to partition.-(1) Every recorded of a permanently settled estate and every recorded landholder of a temporarily-settled estate may, if he is in actual possession of the interest, in respect of which he desires partition, claim perfect or imperfect partition of the estate : Provided that- (a) no person shall be entitled to apply for perfect partition if the result of such partition would be to form a separate estate, liable for an annual amount of revenue less than five rupees; 1926 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports (b) no person shall be entitled to apply for imperfect partition of an estate unless with the consent of recorded co-sharers holding in the aggregate more than one half of the estate; (c) a person may claim partition only in so far as the partition can be effected in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. (2) When two or more proprietors land-holders would be entitled under sub-Section (1) to partition in respect of their respective interests in the estate, they may jointly claim partition in respect of the aggregate of their interests.” 22. Section 154(1)(e) of the Regulation, 1886 reads thus: “154. Matters exempted from cognizance of Civil Court.-(1) Except when otherwise expressly provided in this Regulation, or in rules issued under this Regulation, no Civil Court shall exercise jurisdiction in any of the following- xxx xxx xxx (e) claims of persons to imperfect partition, except in cases in which a perfect partition could not be claimed from, and been refused by, the revenue authorities on the ground that the result of such partition would be to form a separate estate liable for an annual amount of revenue less than five rupees.” i. What is Partition? 23. Partition is either perfect or imperfect. Perfect partition means division of a revenue paying estate into two or more such estates each separately liable for revenue assessed thereon. Imperfect partition means the division of a revenue paying estate into two or more portions jointly liable for the revenue assessed thereon entire estate. 24. Chapter VI of the Regulation, 1886 deals with the procedure for carrying out “perfect partition” and “imperfect partition” of a revenue paying estate on the basis of an application made before the Deputy Commissioner.