⇒ Clause (ii) – accommodation at a concessional rate by employer. ⇒ Clause (iii) – benefit of amenity provided free of cost/at a concessional rate, in specified cases. ⇒ Clause (iv) – sum paid by the employer for an obligation. ⇒ Clause (v) – sum payable by the employer through a fund (barring specified exceptions) to effect an assurance on the life of the assessee or to effect a contract for annuity. ⇒ Clause (vi) – specified security or sweat equity shares allotted/ transferred by employer at concessional rate/free of cost. 11 It is relevant to state here that the appellants have not challenged Rule 3(7)(i) as it existed for the period 01.04.2001 to 31.03.2004, that is, prior to the amendment vide the Income Tax (First Amendment) Rules, 2004, with effect from 01.04.2004. We are thus referring to the said Rule. 918 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports ⇒ Clause (vii) – specified amounts contributed to assessees’ account by employer such as provident fund, superannuation fund etc. ⇒ Clause (viia) – annual accretion by way of interest, dividend or other similar amounts with respect to clause (vii). 10. After specifically stipulating what is included and taxed as ‘perquisite’, clause (viii) to Section 17(2), as a residuary clause, deliberately and intentionally leaves it to the rule-making authority to tax ‘any other fringe benefit or amenity’ by promulgating a rule. The residuary clause is enacted to capture and tax any other ‘fringe benefit or amenity’ within the ambit of ‘perquisites’, not already covered by clauses (i) to (viia) to Section 17(2). 11. In terms of the power conferred under Section 17(2)(viii), CBDT has enacted Rule 3(7)(i) of the Rules. Rule 3(7)(i) states that interest-free/concessional loan made available to an employee or a member of his household by the employer or any person on his behalf, for any purpose, shall be determined as the sum equal to interest computed at the rate charged per annum by SBI, as on the first date of the relevant previous year in respect of loans for the same purpose advanced by it on the maximum outstanding monthly balance as reduced by interest, if any, actually paid. However, the loans made available for medical treatment in respect of diseases specified in Rule 3A or loans whose value in aggregate does not exceed Rs.20,000/- , are not chargeable. 12. The effect of the rule is twofold. First, the value of interest-free or concessional loans is to be treated as ‘other fringe benefit or amenity’ for the purpose of Section 17(2)(viii) and, therefore, taxable as a ‘perquisite’. Secondly, it prescribes the method of valuation of the interest-free/concessional loan for the purposes of taxation. 13. While enacting laws, the legislature can and does delineate the meaning of terms through explicit definitions. Specific meanings are assigned for precision, to distinguish words/expressions from loose or popular meanings, expand or restrict the scope of words or expressions, or to designate ‘terms of art’, that is, words or phrases with specialized meanings. Explicit definitions are useful, but it is wrong to state that all words or expressions must be explicitly defined.