The details set out in the chargesheet have a substantial impact on the efficacy of procedure at the subsequent stages. The chargesheet is integral to the process of taking cognisance, the issue of notice and framing of charge, being the only investigative document and evidence available to the court till that stage. Substantiated reasons and grounds for an offence being made in the chargesheet are a key resource for a Magistrate to evaluate whether there are sufficient grounds for taking cognisance, initiating proceedings, and then issuing notice, framing charges etc. 21. These provisions, however, have to be read along with the power of the police to investigate under sub-section (8) to Section 173 of the Code even when they have submitted a report under sub-section (2) to Section 173 of the Code. The police also has the power to produce additional documents and evidence, as has been held by this Court in Parkash Singh Badal and Another v. State of Punjab and Others16; Narendra Kumar Amin v. Central Bureau of Investigation and Others17; and Central Bureau of Investigation v. R.S. Pai and Another18. 22. Recently a three Judge Bench of this Court in Zakia Ahsan Jafri v. State of Gujarat and Another19, has observed: “11. This Court in Dayal Singh noted that the investigating officer is obliged to act as per the Police Manual and known canons of practice while being diligent, truthful and fair in his/her approach and investigation. It has been noted in the reported decision that an investigating officer is completely responsible and answerable for the manner and methodology adopted in completing his investigation. Concededly, upon completion of investigation, the investigating officer is obliged to submit report setting out prescribed details, to the Magistrate empowered 16 [2006] Supp. 10 SCR 197 : (2007) 1 SCC 1 17 (2015) 3 SCC 417 18 [2002] 2 SCR 889 : (2002) 5 SCC 82 19 [2022] 6 SCR 1 : 2022 INSC 653 [2024] 6 S.C.R. 109 Sharif Ahmed and Another v. State of Uttar Pradesh and Another to take cognizance of the offence referred to therein, without unnecessary delay. The report so presented is the conclusion reached by the investigating officer on the basis of materials collected during investigation. The duty of the investigating officer is to collate every relevant information/material during the investigation, which he must believe to be the actual course of events and the true facts unraveling the commission of the alleged crime and the person involved in committing the same. He is expected to examine the materials from all angles. In the event, there is sufficient evidence or reasonable ground that an offence appears to have been committed and the person committing such offence has been identified, the investigating officer is obliged to record his opinion in that regard, as required by Section 173(2)(i)(d) of the Code. In other words, if the investigating officer intends to send the accused for trial, he is obliged to form a firm opinion not only about the commission of offence, but also about the involvement of such person in the commission of crime.