[2024] 3 S.C.R. 905 M/s. Bisco Limited v. Commissioner of Customs and Central Excise 40. Once the goods covered by any bond executed under Section 59 have been cleared for home consumption or exported or transferred or are otherwise duly accounted for, and when all amounts due on account of such goods have been paid, the proper officer shall cancel the bond as discharged in full and deliver the same after cancellation to the person who has executed or is entitled to receive it. 41. Section 110(1) of the Customs Act empowers the proper officer to seize any goods if he has reason to believe that such goods are liable to confiscation under the Customs Act. 42. As per Section 111(j), any dutiable or prohibited goods removed or attempted to be removed from a customs area or a warehouse without the permission of the proper officer or contrary to the terms of such permission, shall be liable for confiscation. 43. In the event of such an act, the concerned person shall be liable to pay penalty under Section 112. 44. Central Board of Excise and Customs had issued Circular No.98/95- Cus. dated 12.07.1989. Subject matter of this circular was what would be the relevant date for calculation of customs duty in cases where warehoused goods were cleared after expiry of the warehousing period. Reference was made to the instructions of the Board dated 17.03.1987 where it was clarified that in cases where warehoused goods were cleared from a warehouse after expiry of the bond period, the rate of duty would be the one which was prevalent on the date of expiry of the bond. The issue was reconsidered in the tripartite meeting held between the Ministry of Law, Department of Revenue and the Comptroller and Auditor General. It was observed in the meeting that on expiry of the warehousing period, the goods kept in a warehouse ceased to be warehoused goods and, therefore, their removal from the warehouse could not be regarded as covered by the provisions of Section 15(1)(b) of the Customs Act. After noting that there was no specific legal provision to determine the rate of duty in such cases of warehoused goods where the bond period had expired, it was concluded that the residual clause of Section 15(1)(c) of the Customs Act could apply to cases where the goods were removed from the warehouse after expiry of the warehousing period and that the rate of duty in such cases would be the rate prevalent on the date of payment of duty. It was further clarified that provisions of Section 15(1)(b) of the Customs Act would continue to 906 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports apply in cases where goods were cleared from the warehouse after extension of the warehousing period but before expiry of the extended period for which applications from the importers for extension of the warehousing period should be received before expiry of the permitted period of warehousing. These conclusions reached in the tripartite meeting were accepted by the Board and by the aforesaid circular dated 12.07.1989, direction was issued for their immediate implementation superseding the instructions dated 17.03.1987.