The cause of death was recorded as due to the fracture in the vertebra and injury to the spinal cord. The post-mortem of the deceased Mohan Ram disclosed as many as sixteen injuries which included eleven lacerated wounds and the cause of death was reported as death due to injuries to spine and spinal cord. 3.3 The Investigating Officer recovered blood soaked gamcha (scarf) belonging to accused Pratap (A-2), licensed SBBL gun with two live cartridges. From the place of occurrence, the Investigating Officer also recovered three empty-shell-casings of 12 bore, 1 live 12 bore cartridge, cardboard and plastic rods, tikli and other remnants of spent cartridges, apart from other standard recoveries. The recovered articles were sent to the forensic laboratory and as per the report one out of the three cartridges has been found to have been fired from the seized licensed SBBL gun. The FSL report further confirmed that in the barrel of the seized SBBL gun, there was residue of firing. Further, the presence of lead and nitrate clearly indicated that the gun had been recently used. 4. After completing the investigation charge-sheet was submitted. The Magistrate concerned took cognizance and thereafter committed the case to the Sessions Court for trial. The charges were read out to the four accused who denied the same and claimed to be tried. 5. The prosecution examined the informant-appellant as PW 1 and the other eye-witness Ram Dular as PW 2 and also filed the relevant documents. Counsel for the defence on 28.04.2005 admitted the 1730 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports genuineness of the prosecution documents and dispensed with its formal proof. The Public Prosecutor had filed an application under section 311 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 19733 for summoning the formal witnesses which was opposed by the defence. The Trial Court, after recording the submissions and the admission of the prosecution documents by the defence counsel, exhibited the prosecution papers which had not been exhibited. Further, the Trial Court closed the prosecution evidence and fixed 4th May, 2005 for recording the statement of the accused under section 313 CrPC. The statements of all the accused were recorded under section 313 CrPC on 4th May, 2005 and later on because of a few incriminating circumstances which were not put to the accused, a supplementary statement was also recorded under section 313 CrPC. Despite the statement under section 313 CrPC was recorded as far back as May, 2005, the trial could not proceed further, apparently as the same was stayed by the High Court. The trial, however, further commenced in 2019. 6. At this stage also the Public Prosecutor pressed upon the court for consideration of their applications 29 kha and 30 kha for summoning Dr. S.K. Srivastava, who had conducted the autopsy on the dead bodies of the two deceased, and the Investigating Officer to prove the recovery memos etc. These applications were also seriously objected to by the defence. 7. The Trial Court, vide and dated 15/16th July, 2019 convicted all the four accused and sentenced them to life imprisonment under section 302 IPC and other ancillary sentences for the rest of the offences and all of them to run concurrently.