Digital Supreme Court Reports of use of herbicide were also totally given a go by – Further, any evidence of harmful effects or damage to the environment, nature and health owing to non-compliance of conditions stipulated by GEAC was also left open-ended. [Paras 42.13 and 42.15] 1.3. Moreover, GEAC’s proposal was simply accepted by the MoEF&CC and immediately notified without any further consideration at the level of the Ministry and without having any inter-departmental consultation with the Ministry of Health, MoA and DBT in the Ministry of Science and Technology. [Para 42.16] 1.4. Also, no consultation was held with the States wherein mustard is grown, although agriculture is a State subject under Entry 14 of List II of the Constitution – The other concerned stakeholders also ought to have been consulted before a decision was taken by the Union of India in terms of the recommendation of GEAC – The Union of India could not have unilaterally acted on such a serious matter without bringing to the notice of the States, particularly in the northern and northwestern States of the country where mustard is being grown. [Para 42.17] 1.5. Further, no material has been brought out as to how the decision of GEAC was accepted by MoEF&CC and the recommendation of the environmental release of transgenic mustard hybrid DMH-11 was simply permitted – The grant of approval by GEAC is governed by Rule 13 – The said Rule does not contemplate any role for the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEF&CC) in the decision-making process – Therefore, the lateral intervention by the said Ministry seriously undermines the credibility and integrity of the decision making as well as the regulatory process. [Para 42.18] 1.6. When a statute contemplates a specific procedure to be adhered to in to arrive at a desired end, such procedure cannot be substituted by an alternative procedure which is not contemplated under the statute – At the crucial 147th meeting of GEAC held on 18.10.2022, there was no representative of the ICMR, Ministry of Health – Hence, the matter was not considered from the paradigm of the adverse effect on the health of human beings and animals as well as on other plants in the event of environmental release. [Paras 42.20 and 42.21] 1.7. Recommendations of the Technical Expert Committee (TEC) submitted to this Court have been completely ignored by [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1851 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. GEAC – Pursuant to the intervention of the Ministry, GEAC constituted another Expert Committee and simply accepted its recommendations for the environmental release of DMH-11 hybrid mustard – This was by ignoring all previous deliberation made by GEAC, its sub-committee constituted earlier and its decision to proceed with precaution – GEAC approval dated 18.10.2022 and the consequent decision dated 25.10.2022 regarding the environmental release of transgenic mustard hybrid DMH-11 is vitiated – The impugned approval was in gross violation of the principle of public trust. [Paras 42.22 and 43] 2. The failure to conduct chronic and trans-generational studies to study the impact on human health is a significant omission within the risk assessment process in the instant case – The asymmetry between probable benefits and adverse consequences cannot be adequately counter-balanced by economic or policy safeguards because of the serious and irreversible public and environmental health effects if such consequences occur – The failure to publish the biosafety dossier on the website reveals a deficiency in the Guidelines for Environmental Risk Assessment (ERA) for Genetically Engineered (GE) Plants, 2016 – Furthermore, the failure to furnish cogent reasons for giving a go by to field demonstration studies to study the impact on honeybees also reveals the lack of safeguards against misuse of discretion – The failure to adequately assess health and environmental impact of GM crops seriously infringes upon intergenerational equity as it potentially endangers the ability of future citizens to enjoy the highest attainable standard of health – The decision to grant approval for environmental release of transgenic mustard hybrid DMH-11 violates the right to safe and healthy environment under Article 21 of the Constitution of India because the safeguards which were necessary to be taken prior to the grant of the approval have not been taken in the instant case.