But this principle also does not give any satisfactory answer to the question when differential treatment can be meted out. As I said, the principle that if two persons are being treated or are to be treated differently there should be some relevant difference between them is, no doubt, unexceptionable. Otherwise, in the absence of some differentiating feature what is sauce for the goose is sauce for the gander. The real difficulty arises in finding out what constitutes a relevant difference. 56. If we are all to be treated in the same manner, this must carry with it the important requirement that none of us should be better or worse in upbriging, education, than anyone else which is an unattainable ideal for human beings of anything like the sort we now see. Some people maintain that the concept of equality of opportunity is an unsatisfactory concept. For, a complete formulation of it renders it incompatible with any form of human society. Take for instance, the case of equality of opportunity for [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1487 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. education. This equality cannot start in schools and hence requires uniform treatment in families which is an evident impossibility. To remedy this, all children might be brought up in State nurseries, but, to achieve the purpose, the nurseries would have to be run on vigorously uniform lines. Could we guarantee equality of opportunity to the young even in those circumstances? The idea is well expressed by Laski: “Equality means, in the second place, that adequate opportunities are laid open to all. By adequate opportunities we cannot imply equal opportunities in a sense that implies identity of original chance. The native endowments of men are by no means equal. Children who are brought up in an atmosphere where things of the mind are accounted highly are bound to start the race of life with advantages no legislation can secure. Parental character will inevitably affect profoundly the equality of the children whom it touches. So long, therefore, as the family endures — and there seems little reason to anticipate or to desire its disappearance — the varying environments it will create make the notion of equal opportunities a fantastic one. [“Liberty and Equality” in Special Problems and Public Policy : Inequality and Justice, Ed. Lee Rainwater, pp. 26 to 31] 57. Though complete identity of equality of opportunity is impossible in the world, measures compensatory in character and which are calculated to mitigate surmountable obstacles to ensure equality of opportunity can never incur the wrath of Article 16(1).” 73. Mathew, J. observed that formal equality is achieved by treating all persons equally. Formally, it requires that all men have to be treated as the same. He observed that men are not equal in all respects. The claim for equality is in fact a protest against unjust, undeserved and unjustified inequalities. It is a symbol of man’s revolt against chance, fortuitous disparity, unjust power and crystallized privileges.