Therefore, this discrepancy also would not come in the way of the prosecution.” 7. Shortly after the Judgement was passed by the High Court, Ravikumar, who was accused no. 1 passed away. The present criminal appeal thus has been filed on behalf of the remaining accused Vishwanatha. 8. The learned counsel on behalf of the appellant would argue that PW-1 and PW-2 are not credible witnesses pointing again towards the contradictions in their testimony and autopsy report. He would submit that there has been no test identification parade (hereinafter referred to as ‘TIP’) to establish the identity of the appellant who was a total stranger to the two witnesses and in the absence of TIP, the appellant cannot be convicted, as then it cannot be said that the prosecution has proved its case beyond a reasonable doubt. 9. The learned counsel for the State would argue that the High Court has rightly observed that this is not a case of mistaken identity. Further, TIP is not a substantive piece of evidence and absence of TIP would not be fatal for the prosecution case as PW-1 & PW-2 had already identified the accused before the court. As far as discrepancies in [2024] 7 S.C.R. 55 Vishwanatha v. The State of Karnataka by the Secretary, Home Department the testimonies of the witnesses are concerned, they are minor in nature and do not affect the case of prosecution in any manner. 10. We have heard the submissions of the learned counsel of the State and that of the State and also perused the material on record. 11. In the present case, there are concurrent findings by both the courts below as to the death of the deceased Devaki, being a homicidal death and these findings are corroborated by the testimony of PW-6, the doctor who conducted the autopsy and issued the post-mortem report on 26.12.2000. There cannot be any doubt that the death of the deceased was homicidal and the only question for determination before this Court is whether it is the accused persons who were responsible for this death? 12. PW-1 and PW-2 are the star witnesses of the prosecution. They had deposed during the trial that the two accused had strangulated the deceased to death. PW-1 had said that on the day of the incident, she left home at around 9:30 in the morning and when she returned at 12:30 in the afternoon she found that her room was bolted from inside and then she heard her mother screaming. It was then that she called PW-2 for help. PW-1 further states that she saw through the window both the accused strangulating her mother by pulling the rope at the two ends. She further states, that when PW-1 called one of the accused Ravikumar by name, who she immediately recognised being their relative, Ravikumar called the name of the other accused i.e., the present appellant and the two escaped. The relevant extract of the deposition given by PW-1 on 22.10.2001 before the trial court is reproduced below: “…When I came to courtyard of our house I heard sound full of pain and scream.