Introduction 1. The issue before us is whether the appointment process under an arbitration agreement, which allows a party who has an interest in the dispute to unilaterally appoint a sole arbitrator or curate a panel of arbitrators and mandate that the other party select their arbitrator from the panel, is valid in law. Prior to the 2015 Amendment to Section 12 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996,1 courts permitted such unilateral constitution of arbitral tribunals by one party. However, post amendment, s oscillated between negative and conditional affirmations. This Constitution Bench is called upon to clarify the correct position, essential for dispelling uncertainty. The argument against such an appointment process is based on Sections 12(5) and 18 of the Act, as well as on public law considerations such as equal treatment of parties under Article 14, unfair and unreasonable procedure, and non-arbitrariness. 2. I have considered it necessary to locate the obligations of the parties to constitute an independent and impartial arbitral tribunal within the Indian Contract Act, 1872,2 and the Arbitration Act, and not to apply public law principles evolved in constitutional and administrative laws. This is to ensure party autonomy, coupled with minimal judicial intervention, a foundational principle of dispute resolution through arbitration. When parties choose arbitration over Court proceedings as an exception under Section 28 of the Contract Act, they are under 1 Hereinafter “the Act” or “Arbitration Act”. 2 Hereinafter “the Contract Act”. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2295 Central Organisation for Railway Electrification v. M/s ECI SPIC SMO MCML (JV) A Joint Venture Company a duty to constitute an independent and impartial tribunal as an effective substitute, failing which the arbitration agreement will be void as opposed to public policy under Section 23 of the Contract Act. This obligation is the Second Principle that governs arbitration. Whether the agreement is compliant with the duty to constitute an independent and impartial tribunal and not opposed to the public policy effecting access to justice is always determined by the Court. This is the third principle. There is a clear statutory incorporation of these three principles in the Contract Act and the Arbitration Act. I believe that enduring answers to the questions before this Constitution Bench will lie in the balance between these principles. 2.1 Enquiry into disputes relating to legality and propriety of a contractual clause enabling unilateral appointment of arbitral tribunal arises when an application under Section 11(6) for appointment or under Section 14 of the Arbitration Act for substitution are brought before the Court. It is at this stage that the Court will examine the arbitration clause to ensure independence and impartiality. It will be impermissible for the court to intervene at a stage prior to that, to declare agreements to be void as an advanced ruling. This is to ensure party autonomy, particularly when the Arbitration Act itself enables parties to waive certain mandatory provisions such as Section 12(5) of the Arbitration Act. B. Access to Justice 3. Access to justice constitutes the very foundation of democratic governance, serving as the linchpin of a fair and equitable society.