253. As already discussed herein above, this Court in Indra Sawhney has held that further classification of backward classes into backward and more backward classes is permissible in law. 254. By that corollary, if a State finds that any of the castes, races, tribes or part of or groups within the castes, races or tribes are not adequately represented, could the State be denied its right to make a special provision for that? [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1571 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. 255. In a catena of decisions, this Court held that the State must resort to compensatory State action for the purpose of making people who are factually unequal in their wealth, education or social environment, equal in specified areas. It has been held that State should take affirmative action by way of giving preference and reservation to the socially and economically disadvantaged persons or inflicting handicaps on those more advantageously placed, to bring about real equality. Reference in this respect may be made to the Constitution Bench of this Court in the case of Marri Chandra Shekhar Rao vs. Dean, Seth G.S. Medical College and others,25 wherein this Court observed thus: “20. …. Reservations should and must be adopted to advance the prospects of weaker sections of society, but while doing so care should be taken not to exclude the legitimate expectations of the other segments of the community.” 256. Some startling facts have been brought to our notice. Though the Presidential List for the State of Andhra Pradesh has a list of 60 Scheduled Castes, Justice Usha Mehra Commission Report26 shows that out of these 60 Scheduled Castes, only 4 or 5 had availed the benefits of reservation, leaving the rest of the Scheduled Castes in the Presidential List high and dry. The Report shows that the same has resulted in an anomaly that none of the majority caste despite their inclusion in the Presidential List for the State of Andhra Pradesh, have been able to seek reservation benefits including entry into Government service under the State except for the job of Sweepers and/or Farash. 257. Insofar as the State of Punjab is concerned, it is sought to be urged on behalf of the State of Punjab that though Balmikis and Mazhabi Sikhs constitute 41.9% of the total population of the Scheduled Castes, the percentage of these categories in public employment is totally disproportionate to their population among the Scheduled Castes. In any case, it is urged that what is provided under the Act27 was only 25 [1990] 2 SCR 843 : (1990) 3 SCC 130 26 Report of Justice Usha Mehra National Commission on Sub-Categorization of Scheduled Castes in Andhra Pradesh (submitted to Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment, Government of India on 1st May 2008). 27 Section 4(5) of The Punjab Scheduled Castes and Backward Classes (Reservation in Services) Act, 2006 (Punjab Act No. 22 of 2006) 1572 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports differential treatment insofar as 50% of the vacancies reserved for Scheduled Castes is concerned.