Furthermore, “patent illegality” itself has been held to mean contravention of the substantive law of India, contravention of the 1996 Act, and contravention of the terms of the contract.” (emphasis added) In the decision of this Court in the case of Konkan Railway Corporation Limited v. Chenab Bridge Project Undertaking 3, in paragraph 18, it was held thus: “18. At the outset, we may state that the jurisdiction of the court under Section 37 of the Act, as clarified by this Court in MMTC Ltd. v. Vedanta Ltd. [MMTC Ltd. v. Vedanta Ltd., (2019) 4 SCC 163 : (2019) 2 SCC (Civ) 293], is akin to the jurisdiction of the court under Section 34 of the Act. [Id, SCC p. 167, para 14:“14. As far as interference with an made under Section 34, as per Section 37, is concerned, it cannot be disputed that such interference under Section 37 cannot travel beyond the restrictions laid down under Section 34. In other words, the court cannot undertake an independent assessment of the merits of the award, and must only ascertain that the exercise of power by the court under 3 [2023] 11 SCR 215 : (2023) 9 SCC 85 156 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Section 34 has not exceeded the scope of the provision.”] Scope of interference by a court in an appeal under Section 37 of the Act, in examining an , setting aside or refusing to set aside an award, is restricted and subject to the same grounds as the challenge under Section 34 of the Act.” (emphasis added) 16. The jurisdiction of the Appellate Court dealing with an appeal under Section 37 against the in a petition under Section 34 is more constrained than the jurisdiction of the Court dealing with a petition under Section 34. It is the duty of the Appellate Court to consider whether Section 34 Court has remained confined to the grounds of challenge that are available in a petition under Section 34. The ultimate function of the Appellate Court under Section 37 is to decide whether the jurisdiction under Section 34 has been exercised rightly or wrongly. While doing so, the Appellate Court can exercise the same power and jurisdiction that Section 34 Court possesses with the same constraints. 17. In the facts of the case in hand, while deciding the petition under Section 34 of the Arbitration Act, the learned Single Judge has made a very elaborate consideration of the submissions made across the Bar, the findings recorded by the Arbitral Tribunal and the issue of illegality or perversity of the award. Detailed reasons while dealing with the alleged patent illegalities associated with the directions issued under the arbitral award have been recorded. Considering the nature of the findings recorded by the learned Single Judge, the job of the Appellate Court was to scrutinise the said findings and to decide, one way or the other, on merits. In this case, the finding of the Appellate Bench that the impugned of the learned Single Judge does not address several issues raised by the parties cannot be sustained at all.