Exclusion of time of proceeding bona fide in court without jurisdiction. … … (2) In computing the period of limitation for any application, the time during which the applicant has been prosecuting with due diligence another civil proceeding, whether in a court of first instance or of appeal or revision, against the same party for the same relief shall be excluded, where such proceeding is prosecuted in good faith in a court which, from defect of jurisdiction or other cause of a like nature, is unable to entertain it.” …. 26. The Plaintiffs have submitted that the provision of Section14 of the Limitation Act, finds place in the Limitation Act applicable to the then State of J&K, which has not been contested by the Respondents. 27. On a perusal of Section 14(2) of the Limitation Act, which is also applicable to the State of Jammu and Kashmir, it is evident that it carves out an exception excluding the period of limitation when the proceedings are being pursued with due diligence and good faith in a Court “which from defect of jurisdiction or other cause of a like nature, is unable to entertain it”. 44 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 28. The first objection raised by Defendants is that the plea of exclusion of limitation has not been raised before the Courts below and cannot be raised at the first instance before this Court. 29. We do not find merit in this submission, the learned High Court in paragraph 9 has categorically recorded the submission of the Plaintiff pertaining to the exclusion of time spent in pursuing the proceedings before the learned Tehsildar. Therefore, it cannot be said that the plea of exclusion has been raised for the first time, before this Court. 30. The principles pertaining to applicability of Section 14, were extensively discussed and summarised by this Court in Consolidated Engg. Enterprises (Supra), wherein while holding the exclusion of time period under Section 14 of the Limitation Act to a petition under Section 34 of the Arbitration Act it was observed:- “21. Section 14 of the Limitation Act deals with exclusion of time of proceeding bona fide in a court without jurisdiction. On analysis of the said section, it becomes evident that the following conditions must be satisfied before Section 14 can be pressed into service: (1) Both the prior and subsequent proceedings are civil proceedings prosecuted by the same party; (2) The prior proceeding had been prosecuted with due diligence and in good faith; (3) The failure of the prior proceeding was due to defect of jurisdiction or other cause of like nature; (4) The earlier proceeding and the latter proceeding must relate to the same matter in issue; and (5) Both the proceedings are in a court.” 31. This Court in Consolidated Engg. Enterprises (Supra) further expounded that the provisions of this Section, must be interpreted and applied in a manner that furthers the cause of justice, rather than aborts the proceedings at hand and the time taken diligently pursuing a remedy, in a wrong Court, should be excluded.