It is the case of the appellant that State did not even pass any award of compensation and kept the matter in limbo. 6 Years passed by and the appellant kept on requesting the authorities to pass an appropriate award and pay the amount towards compensation. 7 As the respondents did not pay heed to the say of the appellant, he was left with no other option but to file a writ petition in the High Court of Patna. The writ petition was heard by a learned Single Judge and by dated 19 July 2019 rejected the same only on the count that the petition had been filed after a period of forty-two years of the acquisition. While dismissing the writ petition, the learned Single Judge also observed that the appellant had failed to submit any paper or notification in connection with acquisition of his land for the purpose of payment of compensation. 8 Being dissatisfied with the passed by the learned Single Judge rejecting his writ petition, the appellant went in appeal. The appeal came to be disposed of by a Division Bench in the following terms: “A hard copy of the supplementary affidavit on behalf of the State has been filed across the Board. Let it be taken on record. In view of the categorical stand of the State that the land of the appellants had been consumed and that the State is ready to compensate the appellants, nothing remains in this appeal to be decided. The appellants have been informed about the value of the land has been assessed at Rs 4,68,099/- . All that the appellants have to do is to file an application before the concerned authority as to how the amount shall be apportioned between him and his son. It is expected that the decision in that regard by the State Authority shall be taken without any delay as already the matter has become five decades old. The appeal stands disposed of.” 718 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 9 Mr. Dharnidhar Jha, the learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant submitted that the State conceded to the fact that the land of the appellant had been acquired and was put to use for the purpose the same was acquired. He would submit that if the State thought fit to acquire the land of his client, then it was obligatory on the part of the State to pass an appropriate award determining the amount towards compensation. He would submit that it is not the case that the appellant herein was lethargic in asserting his rights, but rather kept on requesting the authorities concerned to determine the amount towards compensation and pay the same. 10 On the other hand, the learned counsel appearing for the State of Bihar submitted that no error, not to speak of any error of law could be said to have been committed by the High Court in passing the impugned . He would submit that it is not in dispute that the land of the appellant was acquired for a public purpose, but at the same time, it was the duty of the appellant to pursue the matter further for the purpose of getting appropriate compensation determined in accordance with law.