The effect of the provision is that if the arbitral award is not made within 12 months from when the pleadings are completed, extendable by a further 6 months by mutual consent of parties, the Tribunal’s mandate will terminate, unless the court either prior or after the expiry of the period, extends it. The wording of sub-section (4) clearly and explicitly enables a court to extend the Tribunal’s mandate after expiry of the statutory and extendable period of 18 months. 9. This Court in Rohan Builders (supra) has held that the application for extension of time can be filed even after the expiry of the period in sub-sections (1) and (3).5 Even if sub-section (4) provides for the termination of the Tribunal’s mandate on the expiry of the period, it recognises party autonomy to move an application before the Court for further extension.6 Thus, the termination of mandate under the provision is only conditional on the non-filing of an extension application, and cannot be taken to mean that the mandate cannot be extended once it expires.7 The relevant portion of the is extracted: “6. Section 29A(4) is the provision which requires interpretation. It states that where the award is not made 5 Rohan Builders (supra), para 6. 6 ibid, paras 10 and 11. 7 ibid, para 12. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 857 M/s Ajay Protech Pvt. Ltd. v. General Manager & Anr. within the specified period of twelve or eighteen months, the mandate of the arbitral tribunal will terminate. However, this provision does not apply if the court has extended the period, either before or after the expiry of the initial or the extended term. In other words, Section 29A(4) empowers the court to extend the period for making of the arbitral award beyond a period of twelve months or eighteen months, as the case may be. The expression “either prior to or after the expiry of the period so specified” is unambiguous. It can be deduced by the language that the court can extend the time where an application is filed after the expiry of the period under subsection (1) or the extended period in terms of sub-section (3). The court has the power to extend the period for making an award at any time before or after the mandated period.” (emphasis supplied) 10. The wording of Section 29A(4) and the decision in Rohan Builders (supra) clearly answer the first issue in favour of the appellant, i.e., an application for extension can be filed either before or after the termination of the Tribunal’s mandate upon expiry of the statutory and extendable period. 11. Whether extension must be granted. The next question is whether an extension of time should be granted in the present case. As per Section 29A(5), the decision to extend the time is an exercise of discretion by the court and must be done on sufficient cause being shown, and on such terms and conditions that the court deems fit.8 This Court, in Rohan Builders (supra), has held: “14.