He has further referred to the following socio historical factors and other statutory provisions considered by the Commission while making the recommendation: "A. In Chapter 11, Para 11.3 of the first report of the Backward Commission, Personnel Department, Backward Commission, Pan is mentioned as Tanti. B. In the 10th Report of 1978-80 of the Bihar Legislative Assembly for the welfare of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, the committee accepted the report of Mungeri Lal Aayog in which it was reported that the persons called Tanti are actually Pan and hence entitled to benefits granted to the Scheduled Castes. C. In 1967, a bill was placed before the Parliament, in which it was proposed in the context of Bihar State that Pan/Swasi/Tanti/Tatwa should be enlisted in the Scheduled Castes for the State of Bihar but the same was not appreciated by the Parliament. D. The report of Kaka Kalekar Backward Commission recommended to the State that the caste Tanti/Tatwa should be incorporated with Pan. E. The Department of Personnel Administrative Reforms and Rajbhasha, Jharkhand vide its letter No.1107 dated 01.03.2004 on the basis of the report of Jharkhand Tribal Welfare and Research Institute requested the Home Ministry, Government of India, that Tanti/Tatwa and Pan are the same caste and hence should be considered as a synonym of Pan/ Swasi. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 809 Dr. Bhim Rao Ambedkar Vichar Manch Bihar, Patna v. The State of Bihar & Ors. F. In the book “ Tribes and Caste of Bengal” by HH Rizley, pg. 155, it is mentioned that Pan/Swasi and Tanti are synonymous and come from the Weaver community. G. The synonymity between these castes were further ascertained by the ethnographic report prepared by A.N. Sinha Institute, Patna. H. The social conditions and cultural backgrounds of these castes are the same, and it is the usual practice to establish matrimonial relations among them. I. A similar finding is found in the Central Government report. J. The National Backward Commission, now a Constitutional Body, has also recommended for deletion of Tanti/Tantwa from the list of Backward Classes as they are synonymous of Pan/Sawasi.” 33. His further submission is that recommendation made by the State Commission is binding on the State and Judicial review in such matters may not be permissible except in an extreme case of perversity or otherwise. He also referred to the recommendation of the National Commission for Backward Classes made on 29.03.2022 regarding synonymity of “Tanti-Tantwa” with ‘Pan, Sawasi’. Lastly, it was submitted that in the event this Court agrees with the submissions of the appellants and decides to quash the Resolution dated 01.07.2015, then the benefits/rights already accrued to the members belonging to the caste of “Tanti-Tantwa” as Scheduled Castes may not be affected on the principles of equity and good conscience. Reliance was placed upon a of this Court in the case of State of Maharashtra Vs. Keshao Vishwanath Sonone1. In particular, reliance was placed upon paragraphs 115 & 116 of the said having a coram of three Hon’ble Judges.