On such comparison, the assessing officer noticed significant increase in the current and capital accounts of the partners of the assessee. On that basis, he drew the inference that profit of the assessee for the three assessment years under consideration would be significantly higher which had escaped assessment. The figure of under assessment was quantified at Rs.1,69,92,728.00. Therefore, he recorded that he had reason to believe that due to omission or failure on the part of the assessee to disclose fully and truly all material facts necessary for the assessments, incomes chargeable to tax for the three assessment years had escaped assessment. 39. Assessee did not submit regular balance sheet and profit and loss account for the three assessment years under consideration on the ground that books of account and other materials/documents of the assessee were seized by the department in the course of search and seizure operation which were not yet returned to the assessee. In [2024] 1 S.C.R. 673 M/S Mangalam Publications, Kottayam v. Commissioner of Income Tax, Kottayam the absence of such books etc., it became difficult for the assessee to maintain yearwise regular books of account etc. However, regular books of account and profit and loss account were filed by the assessee along with the return of income for the assessment year 1993-94. What the assessing officer did was to cull out the figures discernible from the balance sheet for the assessment year 1989-90 obtained from the South Indian Bank and compared the same with the balance sheet submitted by the assessee before the assessing officer for the assessment year 1993-94 and thereafter arrived at the aforesaid conclusion. 40. It may be mentioned that the assessee had filed its regular balance sheet as on 31.12.1985 while filing the return of income for the assessment year 1986-87. The next balance sheet filed was as on 31.03.1993 for the assessment year 1993-94. No balance sheet was filed in the interregnum as according to the assessee, it could not maintain proper books of account as the relevant materials were seized by the department in the course of a search and seizure operation and not yet returned. It was not possible for it to obtain ledger balances to be brought down for the succeeding accounting years. As regards the balance sheet as on 31.03.1989 filed by the assessee before the South Indian Bank and which was construed by the assessing officer to be the balance sheet of the assessee for the assessment year 1989-90, the explanation of the assessee was that it was prepared on provisional and estimate basis and was submitted before the South Indian Bank for obtaining credit and therefore could not be relied upon in assessment proceedings. It appears that this balance sheet was also relied upon by the assessing officer in the re-assessment proceedings of the assessee for the assessment year 1989-90. In the first appellate proceedings, CIT(A) in its appellate dated 26.03.2002 held that such profit and loss account and the balance sheet furnished to the South Indian Bank were not reliable and had discarded the same.