Arm-twisting method to recover any dues cannot be permitted to be used. In support of the appellants’ arguments, reliance was placed on the of this Court in Randheer Singh v. The State of U.P. & others10. 10 2021 INSC 440: (2021) 14 SCC 626. 398 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 17. It was submitted that there was total non-application of mind by the Trial court while passing summoning , which is entirely non-speaking in nature. Even the High Court failed to consider the arguments raised by the appellants. ARGUMENTS OF THE RESPONDENT – COMPLAINANT 18. On the other hand, Mr. Vikas Singh, learned senior counsel for the respondent-complainant, submitted that solely on persuasion of the accused, huge amount of short-term loan was advanced. Subsequently, shares were allotted, which were never handed over to the complainant. The companies whose shares were allotted, namely, Gulab Buildtech and Verma Buildtech were amalgamated with BDR. During the process of amalgamation, despite being a shareholder, the complainant was not issued any notice. As a result of amalgamation, the percentage of shareholding of the company was reduced considerably. 19. The letter conveying that the company had pledged its shares to Sushil Gupta shows that certain documents had been forged. He further referred to the dated 20.02.2013 passed by the High Court in Co. Pet. No. 287 of 2012, showing that the accused persons are connected with each other. He also referred to the Balance Sheet of Gulab Buildtech and Verma Buildtech to show that the amount advanced by the complainant was shown in the column of ‘current liabilities’. Indian Accounting Standards have been referred to show the meaning of ‘current liabilities’ which is in the form of short-term loan. 20. The argument is that the accused persons in connivance with each other have cheated the complainant for crores of rupees by making false promise of higher returns. There is no error in the passed by the High Court. The appeals deserve to be dismissed. FINDINGS – 21. We have heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the material on record. 22. On a complaint filed by the respondent no.2, FIR in question was registered on 29.07.2018. The address of the company D.D. Global was mentioned as ‘C/o A & A Earth Movers, D-9, Sector-2, Noida Sector-20, Gautam Budh Nagar, U.P.’ to be the present as well as the permanent address. This is the first misleading statement made [2024] 1 S.C.R. 399 Dinesh Gupta v. The State of Uttar Pradesh & Anr. by the complainant. From a copy of the resolution passed by the DD Global dated 25.03.2011, it is evident that the registered office of the DD Global is located at F-1/9, Okhla Industrial Area, Phase-I, New Delhi. Even at the time of hearing, it remained undisputed that DD Global is not carrying on any business at Noida, nor has it rented the place mentioned above. Further, the firm ‘A & A Earth Movers’ whose c/o address has been given is not the sister concern of DD Global.