10. It was submitted that the issue of interest was not a matter to be decided and even the learned Trial Court has not disputed the principal 328 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports amount. Further, learned counsel submitted that the learned Trial Court has also not accepted that the respondent was able to show that substantial amounts were returned. Thus, according to him, the dues still remained to be repaid against the respondent to be made good and so it cannot be said that the amount mentioned in the cheque which was returned was not a legally-due amount. Learned counsel submitted that on such flimsy and tenuous grounds, the amount which in law was due to the appellant from the respondent, for which the N.I. Act has been brought into existence by the Parliament so that such dues which the accused denies but for which cheques have been issued by him are not honoured, a quick procedure has been prescribed to ensure that financial disputes reach finality, has been totally frustrated by the Appellate Court and erroneously upheld by the High Court. For some receipts shown by the respondent as part re-payment of the loan amount, the contention of the appellant is that one relates to a transaction by one Shri Laxmi Finance and the rest are not genuine due to there being omissions of signature of the cashier, Manager, etc. This aspect, it is submitted, has been brushed aside. 11. He summed up his arguments by submitting that when the respondent also could not show any proof with regard to what was the rate of interest decided inter-se the parties, such an issue unilaterally could not be decided against the appellant and further that the logic of the Appellate Court that the Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Charging Exorbitant Interest Act, 2003 (hereinafter referred to as the “Tamil Nadu Act”) prohibits charging of interest on any unsecured loan beyond a maximum of 12% per annum, in itself, was unsound as even if it is accepted that the rate of interest was only 1.8% per month, the amount over and above the maximum rate of interest would stand excluded. It was urged that this was no ground to disbelieve that the amount was legally due to the appellant from the respondent. SUBMISSIONS BY THE SOLE RESPONDENT-ACCUSED: 12. Per contra, the learned senior counsel for the respondent raised a preliminary objection that the present appeal is devoid of any question of law, much less a substantial question of law of public importance, and does not warrant interference of this Court in exercise of discretionary jurisdiction vested under Article 136 of the Constitution of India. [2024] 8 S.C.R. 329 Sri Sujies Benefit Funds Limited v. M. Jaganathuan 13. On merits, it was his stand that when two Courts have taken the view that the appellant was not able to show that the cheque amounts were legally due to him from the respondent, this Court may not reverse such finding. It was submitted that upon further evidence being produced before the Appellate Court, it was noticed that as there is difference in the rates of interest mentioned in the pronotes issued and the Statement of Accounts of the appellant, it has rightly been concluded that the claim of the appellant that the amount mentioned in the cheque was legally due to him was not sustainable and thus, the same was not relied upon and the respondent was acquitted.