It was further held that the court would not interfere with the policy decision when the State was in a position to point out that there was an intelligible differentia in the application of the policy and that such intelligible differentia had a nexus with the object sought to be achieved. On the facts of that case, the Court held as follows: “20. It could thus clearly be seen that the Division Bench in Jagdish Prasad [Jagdish Prasad v. State of Rajasthan, 2016 SCC OnLine Raj 646] after considering the record, has come to the finding that the Government of Rajasthan has conducted several training programmes for the persons working with it on contractual basis, as well as under different schemes. The training programmes mainly pertain to the peculiar working pattern in the rural areas of the State of Rajasthan including tribal and arid zones. The Division Bench has further come to a finding that participation in such a training is mandatory and non-joining of the same would result in non-renewal of service contracts. It has been held that persons having special knowledge in working in the State of Rajasthan form a class different than the persons not having such experience of working in the State. It was found that the benefit extended by the State policy was only that of giving a little more weightage on the [2024] 7 S.C.R. 215 Mahesh Chand Bareth & Anr. v. State of Rajasthan & Ors. basis of experience and all the candidates were required to undergo the rigor of selection process. The Division Bench has clearly held that the experienced candidates in other States cannot be compared with the candidates working in the State of Rajasthan, as every State has its own problems and issues and the persons trained to meet such circumstances, stand on a different pedestal.” 34. We find that the ratio laid down in the said is applicable to the facts of the present case also to uphold the action of the State. 35. The of this Court in Raj Kumar (supra) cited by the learned counsel for the appellants is clearly distinguishable. That case dealt with the Rule which provided that any person who has passed the SSC examination and is supposed to be a rural candidate was to be given weightage by the Public Service Commission by awarding 10% marks in each subject for such a candidate. It was also provided that the Viva Voce Board was to put relevant questions to judge the suitability of the candidate for working in rural areas and to test whether or not they had sufficient knowledge of rural problems. Rural candidate was defined to mean a candidate who comes from the rural area and who has passed SSC examination which is held from a village or a town having only a ‘C’ type Municipality. The purported object of the Rule was to take officers who had full knowledge of rural life, its problems, aptitudes and working of the people in villages.