Further, setting out the test for determining whether an officer is a “police officer “ for the purpose of Section 25 of the Evidence Act, this Court in Rajaram Jaiswal (supra) held (quoted from para 165 of Vijay Madanlal Choudhary (supra) [2024] 8 S.C.R. 973 Prem Prakash v. Union of India Through The Directorate of Enforcement “165(ii) It may well be that a statute confers powers and imposes duties on a public servant, some of which are analogous to those of a police officer. But by reason of the nature of other duties which he is required to perform he may be exercising various other powers also. It is argued on behalf of the State that where such is the case the mere conferral of some only of the powers of a police officer on such a person would not make him a police officer and, therefore, what must be borne in mind is the sum total of the powers which he enjoys by virtue of his office as also the dominant purpose for which he is appointed. The contention thus is that when an officer has to perform a wide range of duties and exercise correspondingly a wide range of powers, the mere fact that some of the powers which the statute confers upon him are analogous to or even identical with those of a police officer would not make him a police officer and, therefore, if such an officer records a confession it would not be hit by S. 25 of the Evidence Act. In our what is pertinent to bear in mind for the purpose of determining as to who can be regarded a ‘police officer’ for the purpose of this provision is not the totality of the powers which an officer enjoys but the kind of powers which the law enables him to exercise. The test for determining whether such a person is a “police officer” for the purpose of S. 25 of the Evidence Act would, in our , be whether the powers of a police officer which are conferred on him or which are exercisable by him because he is deemed to be an officer in charge of police station establish a direct or substantial relationship with the prohibition enacted by S. 25, that is, the recording of a confession. In other words, the test would be whether the powers are such as would tend to facilitate the obtaining by him of a confession from a suspect or delinquent. If they do, then it is unnecessary to consider the dominant purpose for which he is appointed or the question as to what other powers he enjoys. These questions may perhaps be relevant for consideration where the powers of the police officer conferred upon him are of a very limited character 974 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports and are not by themselves sufficient to facilitate the obtaining by him of a confession.” (Emphasis supplied) 26. Four decades ago, V.R. Krishna Iyer, J. in his inimitable style, speaking for this Court in Nandini Satpathy Vs P.L.