It is in this context that economic analysis of the impact of the decision becomes imperative.” (emphasis supplied) 26. As regards the power of the High Court to re-appraise the facts, it cannot be said that the same is completely impermissible under Articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution. However, there must be a level of infirmity greater than ordinary in a Tribunal’s , which is facing judicial scrutiny before the High Court, to justify interference. We do not think such a situation prevailed in the present facts. Further, the ratio of the s relied upon by the respondent in support of his contentions, would not apply in the facts at hand. 27. Though much emphasis was laid by the respondent on his claim that his resignation was forced, this Court is not persuaded to accept such a contention, basically on the ground that the language employed by the respondent in his resignation letter is to the effect that he was submitting his resignation, which may be approved, keeping the interest of his family and career and also that with utmost feeling of humiliation and insult he was submitting such resignation. It further indicates that over the six months preceding his resignation, he felt that he had been subjected to unfair rating, which indicates his disillusionment and dissatisfaction, while working for the Company. Pausing here, the Court would indicate that a person, in the employment of any company, cannot dictate terms of his employment to his employer. He has channels of venting her/his grievances but ultimately, it is the view of the competent authority within the organisation that will prevail with regard to his appraisal/ rating. In his resignation letter dated 24.03.2011, the respondent has further stated that because of being subjected to unfair rating without any feedback or review, he faced personal and professional insult, harassment and was left with no option but to submit his resignation, which was not out of his free will. Again, the Court would indicate that the phraseology, “not of his free will” would not mean that it was forced upon him by the Company. Rather, what can be gathered from the materials on record and the s of the fora below, is that the resignation was more out of a sense of being unfairly rated by the appellant. From the material available, it also transpires that 120 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the respondent had made a complaint to the Ombudsman pertaining to his unfair rating. Needless to point out, it would be far-fetched for the Court to assume that the entire organisation i.e., the Company would be against one individual (the respondent) and that a person of such high calibre and quality, who could deliver so much to the Company, would be forced to put in his papers. 28. The respondent asserts that he was one of the best performers and an asset to the Company. Such being the situation, it is hard to fathom why all his superiors would have turned against him.