Reliance in support of this contention was placed upon the decision of the United Kingdom Court of Appeal in Regina (Beer(trading as Hammer Trout Farm)) v. Hampshire Farmers’ Markets & Ltd.16. 12. It was further contended that the writ petitions came to be instituted on behalf of the appellants herein way back in the year 2011-2013 and at that point of time unquestionably the employer, i.e. respondent No. 3(AIL) was a ‘State’ within the ambit and purview of Article 12 of the Constitution of India. The writ petitions were filed with genuine and bona fide service-related issues of the appellant employees based on substantive allegations of infringement of fundamental rights guaranteed under Article 14 and Article 16 of the Constitution of India. However, the writ petitions could not be taken up and decided for over a period of almost 10 years and thus, the appellants cannot be non-suited for the non-disposal of their bona fide lis in a timely manner. He thus urged that appellants herein are entitled to the relief, as claimed for in the writ petitions because the employer i.e. respondent No. 3(AIL), undisputedly was amenable to writ jurisdiction at the time the writ petitions were instituted and that it continues to discharge public duties even after privatisation. 13. On these grounds, learned senior counsel for the appellants implored the Court to accept the appeals; set aside the impugned and remand the writ petitions to the High Court for adjudication on merits. Submission and contentions on behalf of respondent No. 3-AIL: - 14. Shri Abhishek Manu Singhvi, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of respondent No. 3(AIL) contended that a bare reading of Article 226 of the Constitution of India, would clearly show that the ‘test of jurisdiction’ is to be invoked/applied at the time of issuance of the writ by the High Court. It is at the stage of issuance of a writ that the High Court actually exercises its writ jurisdiction, and therefore, it is at that point of time, the High Court ought to be satisfied that the person to whom it is issuing a writ is amenable to the extraordinary writ jurisdiction. 16 [2004] 1 WLR 233 946 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 15. Learned senior counsel placed reliance upon the decision of the High Court of Gujarat in the case of Kalpana Yogesh Dhagat through Legal Heirs v. Reliance Industries Ltd.17, wherein a writ petition had been filed against Indian Petrochemical Corporation Ltd.(“IPCL”) in 2002 which came to be decided in the year 2016. In the intervening period, the IPCL was privatized and taken over by Reliance Industries Limited(RIL) in 2007. The pertinent issue that cropped up for consideration was whether the writ petition filed against IPCL was maintainable even after its privatization. Learned Single Judge18 of the Gujarat High Court held that the writ petition was not maintainable. The relevant portion of Kalpana Yogesh Dhagat (supra) as relied upon is extracted hereinbelow:- “53. In the case in hand, before the writ application could be taken up for final hearing, the status of I.P.C.L.