Aggrieved by the said dated 28.02.2013 the appellants preferred Criminal Revision No.95 of 2013 which was dismissed by the High Court as per the impugned dated 08.01.2021. 4. Heard the learned counsel for the appellants and the learned counsel appearing for the respondents. 5. In the wake of aforesaid factual background, the appellants, relying various decisions of this Court, contended that the second complaint 6 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports filed by the second respondent-complainant is not maintainable. It is contended that the High Court had failed to consider the provisions under Section 300 (1), Cr.P.C., which resulted in dismissal of the revision petition. Dilating the said contentions, further grounds founded on Section 300 (1) of the Cr.P.C., are raised. 6. Before dealing with the other contentions raised to assail the dated 08.01.2021, we think it is only appropriate to consider the contentions raised by the appellants founded on Section 300 (1), Cr.P.C., reads thus: - “300. Person once convicted or acquitted not to be tried for same offence.—(1) A person who has once been tried by a Court of competent jurisdiction for an offence and convicted or acquitted of such offence shall, while such conviction or acquittal remains in force, not be liable to be tried again for the same offence, nor on the same facts for any other offence for which a different charge from the one made against him might have been made under sub-section (1) of section 221, or for which he might have been convicted under sub-section (2) thereof.” 7. In view of the indisputable and undisputed facts, referred hereinbefore, revealing the outcome of the first complaint dated 11.11.2010 and taking into account the stage of the second complaint the question is whether Section 300 (1), Cr.P.C., is applicable or not to the case at hand. 8. Section 300 (1), Cr.P.C., is found on the maxim “Nemo debet bis vexari pro una et eadem causa”, which means that no one shall be vexed twice for one and the same cause. The Section provides that no man once convicted or acquitted shall be tried for the same offence again for one and the same cause. Thus, it can be seen that in to bar the trial in terms of Section 300 (1), Cr.P.C., it must be shown: - a. that the person concerned has been tried by a competent Court for the same offence or one for which he might have been charged or convicted at that trial, on the same facts. b. that he has been convicted or acquitted at the trial and that such conviction or acquittal is in force. [2024] 12 S.C.R. 7 Subrata Choudhury @ Santosh Choudhury & Ors. v. The State of Assam & Anr. 9. This fundamental rule of our criminal law revealed from this Section enables raising of the special pleas of autrefois acquit and autrefois convict, subject to the satisfaction of the conditions enjoined thereunder. This position has been made clear by this Court in Vijayalakshmi v. Vasudevan.1 In the case at hand, the undisputed facts stated hereinbefore would reveal that the appellants were never ever tried before a Court of competent jurisdiction for the aforesaid offence(s) on the basis of the aforesaid set of facts.