It is contended by Opposite Party No.3 that there was contributory negligence on the part of Car No. M.P. 19 C.D. 5879 in which the deceased was sitting and contended that the accident took place due to the negligence of driver of the said car but no oral and documentary evidence has been produced in this regard. Therefore, Issue No. 1 is concluded in the affirmative and Issue Nos. 4 and 5 are concluded in the negative.” 12. It will be noticed that one of the pleas of the insurance company was that there was contributory negligence. Even the insurance company did not dispute the factum of accident and the factum of the death of the deceased Chakradhar Dubey. The only dispute is 658 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports about the involvement of the truck bearing no. MP-19-HA-1197 on which the MACT found that there was adequate evidence to show its involvement in the accident. Thereafter, the MACT, after applying the appropriate multiplier, awarded a compensation of Rs. 50,41,289/-. 13. The Insurance Company filed an appeal before the High Court. The two grounds that were raised were about the denial of the involvement of the truck bearing no. MP-19-HA-1197 and the fact that the deceased was about 58 years of age and that the multiplier of 9 ought to have been applied instead of 11. The High Court has, by a very summary , allowed the appeal. 14. We have heard Mr. Girijesh Pandey, learned counsel for the appellants and Ms. Nanita Sharma, learned counsel for the insurance company who have reiterated their respective contentions. We have perused the records and also the written submissions filed. 15. The only question that arises is, was the High Court justified in setting aside the of the MACT. The High Court, in its cryptic , has held as under:- “After hearing learned counsel for the parties and going through the record, few things needs elaboration. Praful Dubey, PW-1 has though said in para 3 of his deposition that his mother had lost her mental balance at the time of the incident and his sister Pooja and Priyanka were residing in their in-laws house and he was studying at Indore pursuing his B.E., but it has not come on record that when author of the FIR is the occupant of the car namely Narayan Das Tiwari who was traveling in the car bearing No. M.P. No. 19 CB 5879 and he had lodged report against unknown vehicle and there is evidence of the star witness Sanu Shukla that he had visited house of the deceased after 8-10 days of the incident when Chakradhar Dubey had passed away, then it is not evident that why number of the offending vehicle was not given to the other relative including PW-1. There is no explanation for this lacuna. It is true as submitted by Shri Sanjay Kumar Kushwaha that Insurance Company did not lead any cogent evidence of any eye witness but the fact of the matter is that claimants were required to proof their own case.