But, if the Union Government erects buildings on requisitioned lands, the buildings become property of the Union within the meaning of Article 285 although, the Union is not the owner of the land upon which the building stands vide The Governor-General of India in Council vs. The Corporation of Calcutta, AIR 1948 Cal 116 affirmed by The Corporation of Calcutta vs. Governors of St. Thomas’ School, Calcutta, AIR 1949 FC 121. 21.5 The immunity from taxation on property of the Union therefore depends upon the factum of the ownership of the property. If a property accrues to the Union by escheat, lapse or bona vacantia under Article 296 of the Constitution, such property would be immune from State taxation. Thus, where the Union Government is not the owner of the property but is a lessee from a private owner, a tax on such owner is not exempted under Article 285 of the Constitution. Similarly, where the Union Government is using the property for governmental purposes or has control over its use, does not give it immunity from State taxation. Conversely, where the Government is the lessor, a tax on the interest of the private lessee is not a tax on the property of the Union. Since the immunity is confined to property vested [2024] 2 S.C.R. 923 Lucknow Nagar Nigam & Others v. Kohli Brothers Colour Lab. Pvt. Ltd. & Others in the Union, the same cannot be claimed by entities other than the Union. In to ascertain this aspect i.e., whether the statutory corporation or other entities do not come within the scope and the ambit of Article 285, the doctrine of “piercing the veil” may be pressed into service. Thus, Article 285 would not apply when the property to be taxed is not of Union of India but of a distinct and separate legal entity. Thus, the State cannot levy road tax on the vehicles owned by the Central Government or the Railway, which is a Ministry of the Union Government. 21.6 In Union of India vs. City Municipal Council, Bellary, AIR 1978 SC 1803 (“City Municipal Council”), it was observed that the property of the Union is exempt from all taxes imposed by the State or by any authority within the State under Article 285(1), unless the claim can be supported and sustained within the parameters of Article 285 (2). The expression “save in so far as Parliament may by law otherwise provide” in clause (1) of Article 285 is to enable the Parliament to control Union property. Thus, the Parliament may by law permit a State or any authority or instrumentality within a State to impose tax on Union property. But if no such law is made by the Parliament the immunity would continue. Similarly, clause (2) of Article 285 which is in the nature of an exception to clause (1) thereof, has given an overriding power to Parliament to take away any existing taxation of a State or a local authority of Union property prior to the commencement of the Constitution and which has continued to be levied in the State even after the enforcement thereof.