This acquisition can be made by three different methods, indicated in clauses (a), (b) and (c). The methods of acquisition prescribed in clauses (a), (b) and (c) of sub-section (1) of Section 126, in simple terms are as follows:— (i) The acquisition may be through an agreement entered into with the owner, by paying an amount agreed to; (ii) Alternatively, the acquisition may be by the grant of FSI or TDR in lieu of any payment, along with Additional [2024] 9 S.C.R. 867 Kukreja Construction Company & Others v. State of Maharashtra & Others FSI or Additional TDR against the development or construction of the amenity on the surrendered land at the cost of the owner; or (iii) The acquisition may also be by requesting the State Government to initiate the process of land acquisition under the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013. 23. We are concerned in this case with the second method of acquisition of land indicated in clause (b) of sub-section (1) of Section 126. Under this clause, the owner and the planning authority are granted the leverage to agree that the compensation for the acquisition of the land will be for a consideration, not paid in the form of cash but granted in kind, in the form of two things, namely, (i) FSI or TDR for the area of land surrendered; and (ii) additional FSI or additional TDR against the development or construction of the amenity on the surrendered land. 24. Once the parties are ad idem on the fact that the case is covered by clause (b), then what is necessary to be seen by Courts is : (i) whether the parties had agreed to give/take FSI or TDR in lieu of the amount of compensation? ; and (ii) whether there was a valid claim for the grant of additional FSI or additional TDR towards the development or construction of the amenity on the surrendered land at the cost of the owner?.” 14.2 This Court observed therein that there was no dispute on facts that the appellants therein had surrendered the land and accepted TDR in lieu of compensation. The only question was whether parties had satisfied the last limb of clause (b) which reads as under: “26. ……and also further additional Floor Space Index or Transferable Development Rights against the development or construction of the amenity on the surrendered land at his cost, as the Final Development Control Regulations prepared in this behalf provide,” 868 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 14.3 It was observed that the owner of the land is under an obligation to develop or construct the amenity on the surrendered land at his cost and the Planning Authority has to reciprocate the same by granting additional FSI or additional TDR. While considering the said issue, both on facts as well as in law, this Court referred to the definition of the word “amenity” and “development” in Section 2(2) and 2(7) respectively of the Act and observed that the word “amenity” means several things including recreational grounds in respect of which the controversy arose in the said case.