[2024] 2 S.C.R. 155 : 2024 INSC 100 Vinod Kanjibhai Bhagora v. State of Gujarat & Anr. (Civil Appeal No. 1571 of 2024) 02 February 2024 [Vikram Nath and Satish Chandra Sharma, JJ.] Issue for Consideration Whether the Appellant’s subsequent employment with the State Government could be construed to mean that the Appellant had been ‘absorbed’ by the State Government, such that the Appellants’ prior service with the Central Government would be considered as a part of ‘qualifying service’ in terms of Rule 25(ix) of the Gujarat Civil Services (Pension) Rules, 2022. Headnotes Gujarat Civil Services (Pension) Rules, 2022 – r.25(ix) – Interpretation – Qualifying Service – Inclusion of the period of service rendered to the Central Government as a part of ‘qualifying service’ under the State Government’s Pension Rules: Held: Pension schemes floated by the State Government form a part of delegated beneficial legislation; and ought to be interpreted widely subject to such interpretation not running contrary to the express provisions of the Pension Rules – State Government is a model employer; and ought to uphold principles of fairness and clarity –The interpretation sought to be advanced is narrow and restrictive so as to limit the benefit of r.25(ix) only to such person(s) who may have explicitly been absorbed by the State Government as against persons such as the Appellant herein who had most certainly, implicitly been absorbed by the State Government i.e., the Appellants’ participation in the selection process was prefaced by an NOC from the Central Government; and subsequently was followed by the tender of a technical resignation to the Central Government upon securing employment with the State Government – High Court erred in its interpretation of r.25(ix) and unfairly deprived the Appellant from seeking inclusion of the period of service rendered to the Central Government as a part of ‘qualifying service’ under the Pension Rules – Respondent No.1 to consider the service rendered by the Appellant to the Central Government in his capacity as Postal Assistant in the Gandhinagar Postal 156 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Division to be considered as qualifying service and re-calculate the terminal benefits/pensionary benefits – Impugned set aside. [Paras 17-20, 22] Service Law – Pension – Grant of – raison d’etre – Discussed. [Para 10] Case Law Cited LIC v. Shree Lal Meena, [2019] 5 SCR 391 : (2019) 4 SCC 479 – referred to. List of Acts Gujarat Civil Services (Pension) Rules, 2022; Constitution of India. List of Keywords Pension; Subsequent employment; Absorbed; Prior service; Qualifying service; Technical resignation; Terminal benefits/ pensionary benefits. Case Arising From CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION : Civil Appeal No.1571 of 2024 From the and dated 08.03.2018 of the High Court of Gujarat at Ahmedabad in SCA No.22341 of 2017 Appearances for Parties Rishabh Parikh, E. C. Agrawala, Advs. for the Appellant. Ms. Aishwarya Bhati, A.S.G., Ms. Swati Ghildiyal, Ms. Devyani Bhatt, Gurmeet Singh Makker, Ms. Ruchi Kohli, Ms. Archana Pathak Dave, Ms. Suhasini Sen, S S Rebello, Shyam Gopal, Raghav Sharma, Sughosh Subramanyam, Ms. Rekha Pandey, Advs.