Therefore, this should be read and understood with caution. [2024] 1 S.C.R. 163 BHARTI AIRTEL LIMITED AND ANOTHER v. VIJAYKUMAR V. IYER AND OTHERS IBC. Regulation 29 of the Liquidation Regulations does not apply to Part II of the IBC. The legislation or even the legislative intent permits neither statutory set-off, nor insolvency set-off. In support of our conclusion, we would like to refer to the statutory provisions, and meet the arguments to the contrary raised by the appellants. 38. This brings us to the argument raised by the Airtel entities who have placed reliance on Section 30(2)(b)(ii) and Section 53 of the IBC. The relevant provisions of the said Sections read as under: “30. Submission of resolution plan. – xx xx xx (2) The resolution professional shall examine each resolution plan received by him to confirm that each resolution plan- (b) provides for the payment of debts of operational creditors in such manner as may be specified by the Board which shall not be less than— xx xx xx (ii) the amount that would have been paid to such creditors, if the amount to be distributed under the resolution plan had been distributed in accordance with the of priority in sub-section (1) of Section 53, xx xx xx 53. Distribution of assets.— (1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any law enacted by the Parliament or any State Legislature for the time being in force, the proceeds from the sale of the liquidation assets shall be distributed in the following of priority and within such period and in such manner as may be specified, namely— (a) the insolvency resolution process costs and the liquidation costs paid in full; (b) the following debts which shall rank equally between and among the following— 164 [2024] 1 S.C.R. DIGITAL SUPREME COURT REPORTS (i) workmen’s dues for the period of twenty-four months preceding the liquidation commencement date; and (ii) debts owed to a secured creditor in the event such secured creditor has relinquished security in the manner set out in Section 52; (c) wages and any unpaid dues owed to employees other than workmen for the period of twelve months preceding the liquidation commencement date; (d) financial debts owed to unsecured creditors; (e) the following dues shall rank equally between and among the following:— (i) any amount due to the Central Government and the State Government including the amount to be received on account of the Consolidated Fund of India and the Consolidated Fund of a State, if any, in respect of the whole or any part of the period of two years preceding the liquidation commencement date; (ii) debts owed to a secured creditor for any amount unpaid following the enforcement of security interest; (f) any remaining debts and dues; (g) preference shareholders, if any; and (h) equity shareholders or partners, as the case may be. (2) Any contractual arrangements between recipients under sub-section (1) with equal ranking, if disrupting the of priority under that sub-section shall be disregarded by the liquidator.