419 Association for Democratic Reforms and Another v. Union of India and Others 3. Mr Amit Sharma, counsel appearing on behalf of the ECI states that, as a matter of fact, ECI did not retain a copy of the data which was collated by it since it was being placed before this Court in sealed custody. 4. The request, therefore, of the ECI is that the data which was filed before this Court be returned to it to enable it to comply with the of this Court for uploading all the documents. This request of the ECI has not been opposed by Mr Kapil Sibal and Mr Vijay Hansaria, senior counsel and Mr Prashant Bhushan, counsel for the petitioners. 5. We accordingly issue the following directions: (i) The Registrar (Judicial) of this Court shall ensure that the data which has been filed by ECI in pursuance of the interim s of this Court is scanned and digitized. This may be carried out preferably by 5 pm tomorrow (16 March 2024); (ii) Once the above exercise is completed, the originals shall be returned to Mr Amit Sharma, counsel appearing on behalf of ECI; (iii) ECI shall then upload the data on its website on or before 5 pm on 17 March 2024; and (iv) A copy of the scanned and digitized files shall also be made available to Mr Amit Sharma to obviate the replication of the process of digitization. 6. The Miscellaneous Application is accordingly disposed of. 7. The of the Constitution Bench in Association for Democratic Reforms vs Union of India2 required the State Bank of India3 to furnish to the ECI all details of the Electoral Bonds purchased, and, as the case may, redeemed by political parties, including the date of purchase/redemption, name of the purchaser and the denomination of the Electoral Bond purchased. It has been submitted that SBI has not disclosed the alpha-numeric numbers of the Electoral Bonds. 2 [2021] 2 SCR 851 : Writ Petition (Civil) No 880 of 2017 3 “SBI” 420 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 8. The Solicitor General of India submits that since he is not appearing for SBI, notice may be issued to it. 9. We direct the Registry to issue notice to SBI, returnable on 18 March 2024. Additionally, we also direct the presence of a Senior Officer of SBI who is responsible for the management and storage of details of Bonds purchased and redeemed on the next date of hearing. 10. A copy of this shall be served by the Registrar (Judicial) on Mr Sanjay Kapur, Standing Counsel for SBI. Headnotes prepared by: Nidhi Jain Result of the case: Miscellaneous Application disposed of.