Therefore, the private person in occupancy of enemy property for personal benefit is neither 864 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports synonymous with Central Government nor can he agitate it before the Court. Learned ASG Sri Balbir Singh also made submissions in the matter later on. With the aforesaid submissions, it was prayed for this Court to pass s as this Court may think fit and proper. Submissions of the respondent No.3 - State of Uttar Pradesh: 8. State of Uttar Pradesh, at the outset, adopted the contentions raised by the appellant-Municipal Corporation and further submitted as under: a) Admittedly, respondent No.1-assessee is a private entity and a lessee of the Custodian of the enemy property in question and the demand was raised by the appellant-Municipal Corporation on the assessee and not on the Custodian or the Central Government. A private entity, that is running its business, on a property and continuing on lease under the Custodian as per the provisions of the Act cannot claim the benefit of Article 285 of the Constitution of India; b) that the Union of India has also taken a strident stand that though the property is vested in the Custodian for the enemy property in India, the running of the business by respondent No.1 is not akin or synonymous with the running of the business by the Central Government and that therefore tax is payable by respondent No.1 to the appellant herein; c) that vesting, as envisaged under the Act does not make such properties as properties owned by the Central Government or Union properties. In this connection, reference was made to the observations of this Court in Amir Mohammad Khan, which shall be discussed later in the . In light of the aforesaid submissions, it was urged that the view taken by the Hon’ble High Court in the impugned and needs to be set aside. Points for consideration: 9. Having heard learned senior counsel and learned counsel for the respective parties, the following points would arise for our consideration: [2024] 2 S.C.R. 865 Lucknow Nagar Nigam & Others v. Kohli Brothers Colour Lab. Pvt. Ltd. & Others 1. Whether statutory vesting of enemy property including the subject property in the Custodian amounts to expropriation and transfer of ownership so as to confer ownership of such enemy property on the Custodian? 2. Consequently, if the ownership of such enemy property is conferred on the Custodian for Enemy Property, whether such property becomes Union property within the meaning of Article 285 of the Constitution and therefore, it is exempt from payment of property or other local taxes to the appellant-Municipal Corporation under the provisions of the Act of 1959? 3. Whether despite such enemy property becoming property of the Union, clause (2) of Article 285 of the Constitution enables appellant herein to impose property or other local taxes on the respondent which is lessee of the subject property? 4. Whether the High Court was right in holding in favour of the respondent? 5.