However, the term “fail(ure) to act” should not be interpreted to allow Courts to intervene particularly at the Section 11 stage. It is also essential to bear in mind that under Section 11(8) the Court, ‘shall seek a disclosure in writing from the prospective arbitrator in terms of sub-section (1) of section 12’, thereby underscoring the importance of impartiality and independence in the appointment of arbitrators. Therefore, essential safeguards are also provided under Section 11 for the appointment of arbitrator. 12. In the context of Article 11, UNCITRAL Digest of Case Law on the Model Law on International Commercial Arbitration2 provides as under: “20. Securing an independent and impartial tribunal was said in one case to be the major objective that ought to be pursued by the court or competent authority intervening on the basis of article 11, while in another case it was said to be the paramount consideration. It has also been explicitly identified as an important consideration in several other cases.” 2 UNCITRAL 2012 Digest of Case Law on the Model Law on International Commercial Arbitration [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2283 Central Organisation for Railway Electrification v. M/s ECI SPIC SMO MCML (JV) A Joint Venture Company 13. The Commentary on Article 11 by Howard M. Holtzmann and Joseph E. Neuhaus3 provides: “….. the working group cited as examples two articles that give rise to such restrictions: Article 12 concerning grounds for challenging arbitrators and Article 34 concerning court’s power to set aside arbitral awards. Thus, for example, if the procedure agreed on results in an arbitral tribunal that fails to meet the standard of impartiality and independence established by Article 12 the arbitrator would be subjected to challenge. ….The working group considered at some length adding to Article 11 an explicit on the parties’ freedom to determine the procedures for selection of arbitrators. The provision would have stated that a procedure agreed upon by the parties would be invalid if or to the extent that it gave one party a ‘predominant position’ or in the words of an alternate draft a ‘manifestly unfair advantage’ with regard to the appointment of arbitrators. This provision was later deleted because (1)the problem did not arise frequently; (2)other provisions of the law such as Article 12 and 34, could be used to address the problem and (3) the wording was regarded as too vague and thus could lead to dilatory tactics and potentially invalidation of ‘well- established and recognized appointment practices’’ 14. The court’s role in ensuring an arbitrator’s impartiality and independence is indeed essential. However, this duty, as is clear from above, must be grounded in Section 12 of the Arbitration Act which provides adequate standards for dealing with potential conflicts or biases. By setting specific parameters for impartiality, Section 12 effectively limits arbitrary or unjustified challenges while still safeguarding the fairness of arbitration. 15. If the criteria for fairness, impartiality, or independence are not clearly defined, a party may challenge the appointment of an arbitrator on the ground that the procedure is “manifestly unfair” or that the other party holds a “predominant position.” In such cases, a party looking to delay proceedings could file baseless objections against appointments, leading to unnecessary judicial intervention and thereby 3 Howard M. Holtzmann and Joseph E. Neuhaus, A Guide to the UNCITRAL Model Law on International Commercial Arbitration, at 479 (Kluwer 1989) 2284 [2024] 11 S.C.R.