45. In the case of Dharam Dutt and Others v. Union of India and Others,16 the Court was considering the validity of Indian Council of World Affairs Act, 2001. In the said case, again a similar argument was advanced before the Division Bench of this Court. Rejecting the said argument, the Court observed thus: “56. Article 14 of the Constitution prohibits class legislation and not reasonable classification for the purpose of legislation. The requirements of the validity of legislation by reference to Article 14 of the Constitution are : that the subject-matter of legislation should be a well-defined class founded on an intelligible differentia which distinguishes that subject-matter from the others left out, and such differentia must have a rational relation with the object sought to be achieved by the legislation. The laying down of intelligible differentia does not, however, mean that the legislative classification should be scientifically perfect or logically complete. 57. We have already pointed out in an earlier part of this that in the present case successive Parliamentary Committees found substance in the complaints received that an institution of national importance was suffering from mismanagement and maladministration. The Central Government acted on such findings. Circumstances warranting an emergent action satisfied the President of India, resulting in his promulgating ordinances which earlier could not culminate in legislative enactments on account of fortuitous circumstances. At the end Parliament exercised its legislative power under Article 245 of the 16 [2003] Supp. 6 SCR 151 : (2004) 1 SCC 712 : 2003 INSC 667 [2024] 10 S.C.R. 477 Khalsa University and Another v. The State of Punjab and Another Constitution read with Entries 62 and 63 of List I. The legislation cannot be said to be arbitrary or unreasonable. 58. It was further submitted that the provisions of the Societies Registration Act, 1860 were effective enough which, if invoked, could have taken care of the alleged grievances. If there was any truth or substance therein the same could have been found on enquiries being held. In our opinion, in a given set of facts and circumstances, merely because an alternative action under the Societies Registration Act, 1860 could have served the purpose, a case cannot be and is not made out for finding fault with another legislation if the same be within the legislative competence of Parliament, which it is, as will be seen hereinafter. 59. A similar submission was made and repelled in S.P. Mittal case [(1983) 1 SCC 51] . The contention there was that provisions in the Societies Registration Act were available to meet the situation in Auroville and that the law and situation could be controlled by resorting to provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The Constitution Bench held : (SCC p. 116, para 169) “169. Whether the remedies provided under the Societies Registration Act were sufficient to meet the exigencies of the situation is not for the Court to decide but it is for the Government and if the Government thought that the conditions prevailing in the Auroville and the Society can be ameliorated not by resorting to the provisions of the Societies Registration Act but by a special enactment, that is an area of the exercise of the discretion of the Government and not of the Court.” The Constitution Bench also observed that assuming the facts brought to the notice of the legislature were wrong, it will not be open to the Court to hold the Act to be bad on that account.