In fact, insertion of this proviso reduced the rate of stamp duty to be charged to 2% instead of 8% and that too on the amount to be spent by the lessee. 20. The doctrine of legitimate expectation has been discussed and elucidated upon in several by this Court. The doctrine provides a framework for judicial review of executive actions, policy changes, and legislative decisions. In Union of India & Ors. v. Hindustan Development Corporation & Ors.,15 this Court emphasized that legitimate expectation primarily grants an applicant the right to a fair hearing before a decision that negates a promise or withdraws an undertaking from which an expectation of certain outcome or treatment arises. It does not, however, create an absolute 15 [1993] 3 SCR 128 : (1993) 3 SCC 499 [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1141 M/S Rewa Tollway P. Ltd. v. The State of Madhya Pradesh & Ors. right to the expected outcome. The protection of legitimate expectation is subject to overriding public interest, which means that even if an individual’s expectation is reasonable and based on a past practice or representation by the executive or legislature, it can be denied if justified by a significant public necessity. The Court also highlighted that in matters of policy change, the judiciary typically refrains from interfering, unless the decision is arbitrary, unreasonable, or not in public interest. 21. The in Ram Pravesh Singh & Ors. v. State of Bihar & Ors.16 defines legitimate expectation as an expectation of a benefit, relief, or remedy that arises from a promise or established practice through administrative, executive or legislative action. This expectation must be reasonable, logical, and valid; but it in no way vests any enforceable legal right. The doctrine does not elevate legitimate expectation to the level of a right enforceable by law. Instead, it is a procedural concept that demands fairness in administrative action. When an expectation is deemed legitimate, it may entitle the individual to a chance to show cause before the expectation is denied or to receive an explanation for the denial. However, legitimate expectation does not always result in relief, particularly when public interest, policy changes, or other valid reasons justify the deviation from the expected course of action. 22. The decision in P.T.R. Exports (Madras) Pvt. Ltd. v. Union of India & Ors.17 further clarifies the limited role of legitimate expectation in the context of policy changes and legislative actions. This Court observed that the government retains the authority to revise policies in response to changing circumstances, such as potential foreign markets and the need to earn foreign exchange. Thus, the doctrine of legitimate expectation does not constrain the government from altering its policies, provided the changes are made in public interest and not through an abuse of power. The judiciary affords considerable leeway to the executive and legislature in matters of economic policy, recognizing their prerogative to prioritize different economic factors. Consequently, previous policies do not bind the government indefinitely; new policies can be adopted, if deemed 16 [2006] Suppl.