The burden is on the assessees herein to further sell the lottery tickets to the divisional / regional stockists for a profit as their business activity. This activity is not a promotion or a marketing service rendered by the assessees herein to the State within the meaning of sub-clause (ii) of Clause 19 of Section 65 of the Finance Act, 1994. This is because, to reiterate, the States are not rendering a service but engaged in the activity of conducting lottery to earn additional revenue. Moreover, once the lottery tickets are sold by the Directorate of Lotteries—a Department of the State, there is transfer of the title of the lottery tickets to the appellants, who, as owners of the said lottery tickets, in turn sell them to stockists and others. Thus, there is no promotion of the business of the State as its agent. Thus, there is no ‘principal—agent’ relationship which would normally be the case in a relationship where a business auxiliary service is rendered. The relationship between the State and the appellants is on a principal to principal basis. Thus, there is no activity of promotion or marketing of a service on behalf of the State. Neither is the State, which conducts the lottery, rendering a service within the meaning of the Finance Act, 1994. The Explanation, therefore, cannot over-ride the main text of the provision as the Explanation which was sought to remove doubts is in fact contrary to the main provision which defines business auxiliary service and also contrary to the of this Court in Sunrise 846 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Associates and having regard to clause (50) of Section 65 of the Finance Act, 1994. No doubt the Explanation was omitted with effect from 01.07.2010. However, these cases pertain to the period prior to 01.07.2010. Therefore, either under sub-clause (i) of clause (19) of Section 65 or under the Explanation to sub-clause (ii) of Clause 19 of Section 65 of the Finance Act, 1994, after it was introduced with effect from 16.05.2008 and until it was omitted, service tax could not have been levied on the promotion or marketing of sale of goods or service provided by the client, on the premise that it was a ‘business auxiliary service’. 7. The High Courts have lost sight of the definition of ‘goods’ in clause (50) of Section 65 of the Act while interpreting the expression “lottery”. As already noted, the definition of ‘goods’ in clause (7) of Section 2 of Sale of Goods Act, 1930, that is expressly incorporated in clause (50) of Section 65 of the Act, which expressly excludes actionable claims. This Court has by the Constitution Bench in Sunrise Associates opined that lottery tickets are actionable claims. The High Courts have also lost sight of the fact that the sale of lottery tickets by the State is a privileged activity by itself and not rendering of a service for which the assessees are rendering promotion or marketing service. 8. In view of the above discussion, the appeals filed by the appellants- assessees are liable to be allowed and are allowed by setting aside the impugned s of the High Courts of Sikkim and Kerala.