12. In this manner, the historical development of minority rights from the 16th to 20th centuries illustrates a progressively advancing standard of rights accorded to these groups. Initially, minority status was primarily defined by religious affiliation; however, over time, nationality and linguistic identity became key criteria. This evolution reflects a broader international understanding of minority groups. There have been instances where the dominant majority has also actively sought to empower these minorities, highlighting the complex interplay between oppression and advocacy throughout history. 11 Treaty of Peace with Poland [Polish Minorities Treaty], (adopted on 28 June 1919). 12 Rights of Minorities in Upper Silesia (Germ. v. Pol. ), 1928 P.C.I.J. (ser. A) No. 15 (Apr. 26) (Permanent Court of International Justice). 13 Greco-Bulgarian “Communities”, Advisory Opinion, PCIJ Series B. No 17 (Permanent Court of International Justice, 1928). 14 Minority Schools in Albania, Advisory Opinion, PCIJ Series A/B no 64, ICGJ 314 (Permanent Court of International Justice, 1935). [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1767 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. A.2. Minority rights in India 13. The trailing analysis put forth hereinabove sets the context to hereafter understand the Indian experience with minority rights. However, any discussion of minority rights in India must begin with appreciating its unique and vibrant nature,characterized by its rich mosaic of cultures, religions, and languages. 14. As a melting pot of cultures, India is home to a diverse array of different communities. One such example is the Parsis, who came to India from Persia—escaping persecution by the then Arab conquerors—and have since established themselves as one of the most prosperous communities in India.15 Another important minority is the Sikhs, who follow Sikhism, which “is believed to be a deep synthesis of divine virtues, ceaseless, remembrance, relentless service of mankind, equality of mind, and ephemeral nature of the world besides the defiance of tyranny and fighting for righteousness”.16 These instances, among others, provide ample historical evidence supporting India’s tradition of tolerance, as embodied in the notion of ‘Vasudeva Kutumbakam’,17 where all communities have flourished and seamlessly integrated into Indian culture. 15. It was only with the advent of British rule in India that longstanding religious, caste, linguistic and regional ethnic tribal entities that had existed in India for centuries began to receive renewed scrutiny.18 The late 19th century, particularly after the Revolt of 1857, saw an increasing incorporation of Indians into the colonial government. This increasing inclusion of Indians in British institutions forced imperialists to address how Indians were to be represented, leading to the concept of group-based representation.19 They were initially defined by religious terms—evident in the first Indian Census of 1872, which classified Indians by religion—the representation later expanded to include caste and racial categories. Subsequent censuses further 15 Dosabhoy Framjee, “History of the Parsis: including their manners, customs, religion and present position” Volume 2, Discovery Publishing House, (1986). 16 Sehajdhari Sikh Federation v. Union of India and others, 2011 SCC Online P&H 17374. 17 Justice R. A. Jahagirdar (Retd. ), “Secularism: the Road Behind and the Road Ahead,” Secularism: Collected Works, Rationalist Foundation, pp.