They asserted that Articles 6 and 7 prescribe a different regime for granting Indian citizenship to individuals who migrated from India to Pakistan or from Pakistan to India. They argued that ‘Pakistan’ encompasses Bangladesh, as it is a successor state to Pakistan, thus binding Parliament to the cut-off date of 19.07.1948 stipulated in Article 6 of the Constitution. Since these are constituent provisions and the Parliament enacted Section 6A through its ordinary legislative power, it could not have prescribed a different cut-off date in this Section for granting citizenship to immigrants from Bangladesh. The Petitioners further claimed that Parliament should have sought a constitutional amendment instead. Consequently, they contended that Section 6A is unconstitutional for being in conflict with Articles 6 and 7. 120. Per contra, the Respondents put forth a different view. They urged that Section 6A does not violate Articles 6 and 7 because these Articles operate in different contexts, both in terms of time and geography. They provided additional context on the cut-off dates prescribed in Articles 6 and 7, asserting that these dates were a remnant of the permit system, which never applied to East Pakistan. Referring to the Constituent Assembly Debates, the Respondents also demonstrated that it was never intended for these provisions to apply to East Pakistan. Further, they argued that the spirit and intent behind Section 6A align with those of Articles 6 and 7 and that striking down Section 6A would not serve the objectives of these Constitutional provisions. 121. The Respondents further argued that even if it is assumed that Section 6A conflicts with Articles 6 and 7, Article 11 of the Constitution is a non-obstante provision that grants Parliament the power to make laws regarding citizenship and that the other provisions of Part II of the Constitution cannot derogate from this power. In this regard, they relied upon Izhar Ahmed Khan v. Union of India,104 where it is held that the Parliament can make a valid law even when it is against such provisions. This power is supplemented by Entry 17 of List I of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution, which also empowers Parliament to legislate on the subject of citizenship. 104 Izhar Ahmed Khan v. Union of India, AIR 1962 SC 1052. 1064 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 122. The Petitioners refuted this plea, asserting that while Article 11 and Entry 17 of List 1 confer power upon Parliament, they do not include the authority to supersede other provisions within Part II of the Constitution. They interpreted Article 11 as a residual clause, empowering Parliament to enact laws that do not contravene other provisions within Part II. They argued that even if Article 11 admits multiple interpretations, the Court should adopt the construction that promotes harmony with the rest of the Constitution. 123. Considering these rival submissions, the issue that arises for consideration is whether Section 6A is violative of Articles 6 and 7 of the Constitution, and whether the Parliament had the power to enact Section 6A.