76. The category of people who have been identified as beneficiaries of this State largesse as “other deserving sections of the society” are: Judges of the Supreme Court and High Court, MPs, MLAs, journalists, State and Central Government employees. It would be apt to note that, not only are these classes of people being allotted 68 See Lt. Col. Nitisha (supra). Also see Anuj Garg and Others v. Hotel Association of India and Others (2008) 3 SCC 1 1418 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports land preferentially, the price of such land is also discounted to the basic rate, instead of the prevalent market rate. 77. The State of Telangana, in its defence, has contended that the abovementioned category of people forms a distinct class. However, we have already enunciated above that, not only must a distinct classification exist but such classification should not be arbitrary, artificial or artful, and should be rationally tailored to serve the objective. 78. In the present case, the principle of arbitrariness, as expounded in E.P. Royappa v. State of Tamil Nadu in its puritan form, is applicable.69 The classification giving State largesse to Judges of Constitutional Courts, MPs, MLAs, officers of the AIS, journalists, etc. favours a privileged segment of society, which is already better off compared to the vast majority of marginalized and socio-economically disadvantaged individuals. The benefits granted to these privileged and well-off classes come at a cost, as they effectively deprive and deny the essentials to the marginalized and socially vulnerable populations. 79. The allocation of land at basic rates to select privileged groups reflects a “capricious” and “irrational” approach. This is a classic case of executive action steeped in arbitrariness, but clothed in the guise of legitimacy, by stating that the ostensible purpose of the policy was to allot land to “deserving sections of society”. Shorn of pretence, this policy of the State Government, is an abuse of power meant to cater exclusively to the affluent sections of the society, disapproving and rejecting the equal right to allotment of the common citizen and the socio-economically disadvantaged. It would not be wrong to say that the doctrine of manifest arbitrariness, as expounded in Shayara Bano v. Union of India is applicable.70 80. The arbitrariness inherent in the land allocation policy is further reflected in GoM No. 244. This stipulates that if the available land is insufficient to meet the prescribed allocations for AIS officers, the size of the plots may be reduced according to a specified ratio. However, an exception is carved out for Category 1 beneficiaries, 69 (1974) 4 SCC 3 70 [2017] 9 SCR 797 : (2017) 9 SCC 1; also see Navtej Johar (supra) and Joseph Shine v. Union of India (2019) 3 SCC 39 [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1419 State of Andhra Pradesh and Others v. Dr. Rao, V.B.J. Chelikani and Others which includes IAS, IPS, and IFS officers. This category is afforded preferential treatment without any justification for such a distinction, highlighting an undue bias in favour of the most privileged subset within an already irrational classification.