He states that reading Article 46 together with Article 16(4), the inference is obvious that administrative participation by the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes shall be promoted with special care by the State. 244. While considering the criticism that there are rich and influential harijans who rob all the privileges leaving the serf-level sufferers as suppressed as ever, he suggested that the Administration may well innovate and classify to weed out the creamy layer of SCs/STs. However, records a caution that the Court cannot force the State in that behalf. 245. Chinnappa Reddy, J. in the same states that it becomes the duty of the Court to apply the Directive Principles in interpreting the Constitution and the laws. He states that the Directive Principles should serve the courts as a code of interpretation. He states that the Fundamental Rights should be interpreted in the light of the Directive Principles and the latter should, whenever and wherever possible, be read into the former. 246. Chinnappa Reddy, J advocates that the State action should be towards protection and nourishment of the underprivileged, the 1570 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports deprived and the exploited so that they can take their place in an egalitarian society. 247. In Indra Sawhney, 7 Learned Judges affirmed the position as laid down in N.M. Thomas that clause (4) of Article 16 is not by way of an exception to clause (1) of Article 16, but it is an emphatic way of stating a principle implicit in Article 16(1). 248. As already discussed hereinabove, it has been held that further classification of backward classes into backward and more backward classes is permissible under the Constitution. The only caveat put by Sawant, J. is that if it is done there has to be a reservation for both backward as well as for more or most backward classes. It has been held in Indra Sawhney that under Article 16(4) the Scheduled Castes are also included in the term ‘backward class of citizens’. 249. If that be so, I find no justification in E.V. Chinnaiah holding that the State is not empowered to do the exercise of sub-classification among the Scheduled Castes. 250. The basic error that appears to have been committed in E.V. Chinnaiah is that it proceeds on the understanding that Article 341 has to do with the reservation of the seats. 251. As already discussed hereinabove, Articles 341 and 342 are only with regard to identification of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. Articles 341 and 342 read with clauses (24) and (25) of Article 366 of the Constitution provide that those castes included in the Presidential List shall be deemed to be Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes for the purposes of the Constitution. However, at the cost of repetition, I reiterate that Articles 341 and 342 do not deal with reservation. 252. The provisions of affirmative action including reservations in the matter of public employment are contained in Article 16 of the Constitution of India.