The student-led Assam Movement finally came to an end on 15.08.1985, with the signing of a Memorandum of Settlement known as the ‘Assam Accord’ between the Central Government and the leaders of AASU and AAGSP. The Assam Accord declared 01.01.1966 as the base date for the detection of illegal immigrants and created three classes of immigrants: first, those who came before 01.01.1966, including those in the electoral list of 1967; second, those who came between 01.01.1966 and 24.03.1971; and third, those who came on or after 25.03.1971. The first class of persons were to be regularized under the Assam Accord, while those belonging to the second class were to be detected as foreigners, and their names were to be deleted from electoral rolls. It was further provided that their names would be restored after the expiry of ten years from their detection. The third class of persons, i.e., those who came on or after 25.03.1971, were to be detected and expelled as per the Assam Accord. Subsequently, Section 6A was inserted into the Citizenship Act through an amendment to give effect to the provisions of the Assam Accord. 91. However, despite the enactment of Section 6A, the influx of illegal immigrants into the State of Assam from Bangladesh was stronger than ever. In 1998, the then Governor of Assam submitted a report to the then President of India highlighting the threat posed by large-scale migration from Bangladesh into Assam. Currently, there exist thousands of migrants who have been accorded citizenship under Section 6A and have been residing in the State of Assam for several years. Conversely, there are also hordes of immigrants 84 sAnGeetA BArooAh pishAroty, supra note 75, 184. 1054 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports who have entered and continue to enter the State of Assam illegally. Thus, there presently exist two sets of immigrants who need to be bifurcated and treated differently—one set who will be conferred citizenship in accordance with the auspices of Section 6A and the other set who are illegal immigrants. 92. Having dealt with this historical and political context, and with this background, it is now pertinent to peruse the issues invoking constitutional challenge against the validity of Section 6A. iii. The preambular notion of fraternity 93. The Petitioners seek to enforce the preambular notion of ‘fraternity’. They have urged that the idea of fraternity, as encapsulated in the Constitution of India, is to be interpreted in the context of the unity and integrity of the nation. They argued against a global/transnational construction of the term, wherein the notion of fraternity is extended beyond the citizens of India. They asserted that the constitutional mandate in the Preamble pertains to fraternity amongst citizens and that this notion of fraternity might be destroyed when a legislative enactment such as Section 6A threatens to destroy the cultural demography of that citizenry. The Petitioners further contended that the influx of immigrants from Bangladesh into the State of Assam has jeopardized the very ideal of fraternity in India.