It is necessary to clarify this position, as in day to day life, the expression ‘agency’ is used to include a vast number of relationships, which are strictly, not relationships between a principal and agent. 7. Section 182 of the Contract Act, defines the words ‘agent’ and ‘principal’ and reads as under: “182. “Agent” and “principal” defined.— An “agent” is a person employed to do any act for another, or to represent another in dealings with third persons. The person for whom such act is done, or who is so represented, is called the “principal”.” Agency in terms of Section 182 exists when the principal employs another person, who is not his employee, to act or represent him in dealings with a third person. An agent renders services to the principal. The agent does what has been entrusted to him by the principal to do. It is the principal he represents before third parties, and not himself. As the transaction by the agent is on behalf of the principal whom the agent represents, the contract is between the principal and the third party. Accordingly the agent, except in some circumstances, is not liable to the third party. 8. Agency is therefore a triangular relationship between the principal, agent and the third party. In to understand this relationship, one has to examine the inter se relationship between the principal and the third party and the agent and the third party. When we examine whether a legal relationship of a principal and agent exists, the following factors/aspects should be taken into consideration: (a) The essential characteristic of an agent is the legal power vested with the agent to alter his principal’s legal relationship with a third party and the principal’s co-relative liability to have his relations altered.7 6 “Contract Act”, for short. 7 F.E. Dowrick, The Relationship of Principal and Agent, 17 MLR 24, 37 (1954). [2024] 2 S.C.R. 1013 Bharti Cellular Limited (Now Bharti Airtel Limited) v. Assistant Commissioner of Income Tax, Circle 57, Kolkata and Another (b) As the agent acts on behalf of the principal, one of the prime elements of the relationship is the exercise of a degree of control by the principal over the conduct of the activities of the agent. This degree of control is less than the control exercised by the master on the servant, and is different from the rights and obligations in case of principal to principal and independent contractor relationship. (c) The task entrusted by the principal to the agent should result in a fiduciary relationship. The fiduciary relationship is the manifestation of consent by one person to another to act on his or her behalf and subject to his or her control, and the reciprocal consent by the other to do so.8 (d) As the business done by the agent is on the principal’s account, the agent is liable to render accounts thereof to the principal. An agent is entitled to remuneration from the principal for the work he performs for the principal.