[...] xxx xxx xxx [2024] 5 S.C.R. 1127 Ravikumar Dhansukhlal Maheta & Anr. v. High Court of Gujarat & Ors. 15. Keeping the principles aforesaid in view, when we revert to the scheme of the Rules of 1970, the striking feature is that even at the entry level, the promotions are to be made either on merit-cum-seniority basis or on merit basis. Further, grant of Selection Grade and Super Time Scale is also on assessment of merit-cum-seniority10. In the given scheme of the Rules of 1970, it is difficult to countenance any suggestion that in DHJS, merit could be forsaken at any level or only seniority be given primacy in the matter relating to upward progression to the higher posts of District and Sessions Judge or Principal Judge, Family Court. Rather, looking to the nature of posts, in every higher progression, merit would play a major role and would, perforce, acquire primacy. xxx xxx xxx 19.1. [...] Viewed in the light of such requirements, it goes without saying that any upward progression in DHJS could only be on the higher requirements of merit and in any case, such requirements cannot be lesser than the requirements at entry level. In this view of the matter too, the Appellant was conscious of the fact that for upward movement in DHJS, merit would acquire primacy; and that seniority alone was not going to be decisive for promotion to the higher posts of District and Sessions Judge and the Principal Judge, Family Court. Although there is no requirement in law that criteria for promotion based on ACR alone be also notified but, in any case, in the scheme of the Rules and the requirements of the posts in question, the Appellant cannot contend that she was not aware of the position that comparative merit of the incumbents shall be a crucial factor for any upward progression in the cadre.” (Emphasis supplied) c. ‘Hybrid-Dynamic Mode of Promotion’ in Service Jurisprudence. 94. What can be discerned from the aforenoted decisions is that this Court over the years has consistently held that where promotion is on the basis of the principle of ‘Merit-cum-Seniority’ a greater 1128 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports emphasis is placed on merit, whereas, when the promotion is on the basis of the principle of ‘Seniority-cum-Merit’, a greater emphasis is laid on seniority. 95. One must be mindful that the terms ‘Merit-cum-Seniority’ or ‘Seniority- cum-Merit’ are not statutorily defined by the legislature. 96. These principles are judicial connotations that have been evolved over a period of years through various decisions of this Court and the High Courts whilst dealing with matters of promotion pertaining to different statutes and service conditions. 97. This Court in B.V. Sivaiah (supra), Rajendra Kumar Srivastava (supra), Shriram Tomar (supra), Sujata Kohli (supra) and a catena of other decisions has held that the principles of ‘Merit-cum-Seniority’ and ‘Seniority-cum-Merit’ are conceptually different. Whilst explaining the difference between these two principles, this Court has only gone to the extent of laying down what these principles postulate for the purpose of promotion.