This Court held that the said income fell under the specific head mentioned in Section 9 of the Act. This case also does not lay down that the income from the shops is not the income in the business. In CIT v. Express Newspapers Ltd [(1964) 53 ITR 250, 260] this Court held that both Section 26(2) and the proviso thereto dealt only with profits and gains of a business, profession, or vocation and they did not provide for the assessment of income under any other head e.g. capital gains. The reason for that conclusion is stated thus: “It (the deeming clause in Section 12-B) only introduces a limited fiction, namely, that capital gains accrued will be deemed to be income of the previous year in which the sale was effected. The fiction does not make them the profits or gains of the business. It is well settled that a legal fiction is limited to the purpose for which it is created and should not be extended beyond its legitimate field … The profits and gains of business and capital gains are two distinct concepts in the Income Tax Act : the former arises from the activity which is [2024] 10 S.C.R. 881 Bank of Rajasthan Ltd. v. Commissioner of Income Tax called business and the latter accrues because capital assets are disposed of at a value higher than what they cost the assessee. They are placed under different heads; they are derived from different sources; and the income is computed under different methods. The fact that the capital gains are connected with the capital assets of the business cannot make them the profit of the business. They are only deemed to be income of the previous year and not the profits or gains arising from the business during that year.” It will be seen that the reason for the conclusion was that capital gains were not income from the business. Though some observations divorced from content may appear to be wide, the said decision was mainly based upon the character of the capital gains and not upon their non-inclusion under the heading “business”. The limited scope of the earlier decision was explained by this Court in CIT v. Chugandas & Co. [(1965) 55 ITR 17, 24]. Therein this Court held that interest from securities formed part of the assessee’s business income for the purpose of exemption under Section 25(3). Shah, J., speaking for the Court, observed: “The heads described in Section 6 and further elaborated for the purpose of computation of income in Sections 7 to 10 and 12, 12-A, 12-AA and 12-B are intended merely to indicate the classes of income : the heads do not exhaustively delimit sources from which income arises. This is made clear in the of this Court in the United Commercial Bank Ltd. case [(1958) SCR 79], that business income is broken up under different heads only for the purposes of computation of the total income : by that break up the income does not cease to be income of the business, the different heads of income being only the classification prescribed by the Indian Income Tax Act for computation of income.”” (emphasis added) The same principles apply to the cases in hand.