Entry 8 of List II is a special entry dealing with one particular industry.126 The consequence of interpreting Entry 52 to cover the industry of ‘intoxicating liquor’ is two-fold: first, it would amount to deleting the words ‘production, manufacture’ in Entry 8; and second, the State Legislature also loses its exclusive competence to legislate upon the product of the industry, rendering Entry 8 fully redundant. This is because the legislative competence on products of industries covered by Entry 52 of List I is placed in Entry 33 of List III. 72. As a consequence, Parliament does not have the legislative competence to enact a law taking control of the industry of intoxicating liquor under Entry 52 of List I. iv. Scope of Entry 8: Meaning of ‘intoxicating liquor’ 73. Entry 8 of List II is a general entry and not a taxing entry. However, it is a special entry in the sense that it specifically enumerates ‘intoxicating liquors’ as a legislative field to the exclusion of all other general entries under which it may have otherwise been subsumed. The Entry stipulates that intoxicating liquors would fall within the legislative domain of States. The arguments of the counsel on either side on the scope of Entry 8 of List II rest on the interpretation of the expression “intoxicating liquor”. 125 (2018) 4 SCC 743 126 Calcutta Gas company (supra) and McDowell (supra) [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2005 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons 74. The appellants rely on the meaning of ‘liquor’ in statutes which predate the Constitution to argue that the framers of the Constitution were aware of the sense in which the phrase was used at the time and, that it included denatured alcohol. In response, the Union argues that the word ‘intoxicating’ occurring in the expression ‘intoxicating liquors’ must not be rendered redundant by adopting the interpretation accorded to Entry 8 of List II by the appellants. It argues that ‘intoxicating liquors’ means beverages which are per se meant for human consumption for the purpose of intoxication without dilution or modification by any process. The Union also relies on the legal history of the division of legislative fields between the Union and the States in support of its argument that only Parliament is competent to legislate with regard to denatured alcohol. a. Precedent on the interpretation of ‘intoxicating liquor’: exploring FN Balsara and Southern Pharmaceuticals 75. The respondents have relied on the interpretation of the phrase ‘intoxicating liquor’ in the of the Bombay High Court in FN Balsara v. State of Bombay.127 The petitioners have strongly relied on the decision of this Court in FN Balsara (supra) which overturned the of the Bombay High Court. 76. The petitioner in Balsara (supra) had one bottle of whisky, one bottle of brandy, one bottle of wine, two bottles of beer, one bottle of medicated wine, one bottle of eau-de-cologne, one bottle of lavender water and some bottles of medicinal preparations. The petitioner invoked the writ jurisdiction of the High Court to challenge the validity of the Bombay Prohibition Act 1949.128 As the name suggests, the statute sought to put in place and enforce the policy of prohibition of alcohol.