This is essentially a matter of administrative policy and if the Haryana State Government think that in the interest of judicial competence persons securing less than 55% of marks in the competitive examination should not be selected for appointment, those who got less than 55% have no right to claim that the selections be made of also those candidates who obtained less than the minimum fixed by the State Government. In our view the High Court was in error in thinking that the State Government had somehow contravened Rule 8 of …..” 56 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 26. A close reading of the in Subash Chander Marwaha (supra) would disclose that there was no change in the rules of the game qua eligibility for placement in the select list. There the select list was prepared in accordance with the extant rules. But, since the extant rules did not create any obligation on the part of the State Government to make appointments against all notified vacancies, this Court opined that the State could take a policy decision not to appoint candidates securing less than 55% marks. With that reasoning and by taking into account that appointments made were of top seven candidates in the select list, who had secured 55% or higher marks, this Court found no merit in the petition of the writ petitioners. On the other hand, in K. Manjusree (supra), the eligibility criteria for placement in the select list was changed after interviews were held which had a material bearing on the select list. Thus, Subash Chander Marwaha (supra) dealt with the right to be appointed from the select list whereas K. Manjusree (supra) dealt with the right to be placed in the select list. The two cases therefore dealt with altogether different issues. For the foregoing reasons, in our view, K. Manjusree (supra) could not have been doubted for having failed to consider Subash Chander Marwaha (supra). 27. In K. H. Siraj v. High Court of Kerala & Ors.28 the High Court of Kerala invited applications for appointment to the post of Munsif Magistrate in the Kerala Judicial Service. Out of more than 1800 candidates who had applied, 1292 applications were found valid. 118 candidates passed the written examination. Out of the said candidates, 88 passed the interview and select list was prepared from amongst these 88 candidates. Candidates who were not selected as they had not secured the prescribed minimum marks in the interview filed writ petitions contending that in the absence of specific legislative mandate prescribing cut-off marks in interviews, the fixing of separate minimum cut-off marks in the interview for further elimination of candidates after a comprehensive written test touching the required subjects in detail, was violative of the statute. The writ petitions were allowed by a single judge of the High Court against which intra-court appeal was filed before division bench of the High Court. The division bench set aside the of the learned single judge against which appeals came before this Court.