It is settled law that revenue records are not documents of title. Any entry therein will not ipso facto confer ownership. In the present case, the possession is continuously with the appellant. As per the judgement of this Court in Ravinder Kaur Grewal and Others v. Manjit Kaur [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1231 Mukesh v. The State of Madhya Pradesh & Anr. and Others,13 continuous and uninterrupted adverse possession would confer right, title and interest and the same can be used as a sword. Admittedly, the suit has been filed by the appellant seeking a declaration asserting his pre-existing right, title and interest and for permanent injunction. Thereafter, in terms of the compromise entered into between the parties, the suit was decreed in favour of the appellant. Hence, it is clear that through the said compromise decree, the appellant did not obtain any new right, but he has asserted his pre-existing right/ title/ interest over the subject land. The in Ravinder Kaur Grewal’s case (supra) was delivered on 06.08.2019, whereas the in Siddhulal case was passed by the High Court on 24.07.2019 relying on the of the High Court in Mohd. Yusuf and others v. Rajkumar's case rendered on 13.12.2017. The said judgement was reversed by this Court in the reported in (2020) 10 SCC 264. In view of the change in law with regard to the right accrued to a holder in adverse to be treated as a pre-existing right and since the in Mohammed Yusuf’s case was subsequently reversed, the of the High Court is not sustainable. 12. Though the Respondent No.1 alleged that the suit was filed by the appellant in collusion with the Respondent No.2 and within a short time from the date of initiation of the suit, the parties compromised the matter in to evade payment of stamp duty, no concrete evidence was placed before this court to substantiate that the same. That apart, it is not the case of the Respondent No.1 - State that the suit itself was collusive as the property was not in possession of the appellant and that it belongs to any other third party. Such rival claim by any other person other than the defendant has not been brought to our knowledge. Obviously, the case before us is not a title dispute, but rather one relating to registration and payment of stamp duty and therefore, we leave the issue there. Under the above circumstances, we have no option but to hold that the compromise decree is by way of collusion, cannot be accepted. As already indicated above, the compromise decree reached finality, as the Respondent No.1 has not challenged the same. There is no finding of collusion between the parties in entering into the compromise by any Court as on date. 13 [2019] 11 SCR 74 : (2019) 8 SCC 729 1232 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports Indisputably, the property is the subject matter of the suit. Thus, the appellant has satisfied the conditions enumerated in section 17(2) (vi) of the Act, 1908 and hence, the subject land acquired by him by way of compromise decree, requires no registration.