Significantly, in the case of partnerships and individual bankruptcies, Section 17326 of the IBC 26 Section 173. Mutual credit and set-off.—(1) Where before the bankruptcy commencement date, there have been mutual dealings between the bankrupt and any creditor, the bankruptcy trustee shall— (a) take an account of what is due from each party to the other in respect of the mutual dealings and the sums due from one party shall be set-off against the sums due from the other; and (b) only the balance shall be provable as a bankruptcy debt or as the amount payable to the bank- ruptcy trustee as part of the estate of the bankrupt. (2) Sums due from the bankrupt to another party shall not be included in the account taken by the bankruptcy trustee under sub-section (1), if that other party had notice at the time they became due that an application for bankruptcy relating to the bankrupt was pending. [2024] 1 S.C.R. 153 BHARTI AIRTEL LIMITED AND ANOTHER v. VIJAYKUMAR V. IYER AND OTHERS permits set-off. Regulation 29 of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (Liquidation Process) Regulations, 201627 provides for mutual credits and set-off and reads: “29. Mutual credits and set-off.— Where there are mutual dealings between the corporate debtor and another party, the sums due from one party shall be set off against the sums due from the other to arrive at the net amount payable to the corporate debtor or to the other party.” The title of the Liquidation Regulations states that they shall apply to the process under Chapter III Part II of the IBC. In other words, the Liquidation Regulations are not applicable to Chapter II Part II of the IBC, which relates to the Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process. 14. Section 36(4) in Chapter III Part II of the IBC28 deals with the exclusion of assets that do not form part of the liquidation estate. Section 36(4) permits the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India29 to specify assets which could be subject to set-off on account of mutual dealings between the corporate debtor and the creditor. When an asset is excluded from the liquidation estate, it is not available for distribution in the liquidation process. It follows that if a creditor exercises and is allowed set-off, then in terms of Section 36(4) of the IBC this creditor is given a preferred status over others, including the secured creditors, to the extent of the set-off value. 27 For short- ‘the Liquidation Regulations’. 28 Section 36 (4). The following shall not be included in the liquidation estate assets and shall not be used for recovery in the liquidation— (a) assets owned by a third party which are in possession of the corporate debtor, including— (i) assets held in trust for any third party; (ii) bailment contracts; (iii) all sums due to any workman or employee from the provident fund, the pension fund and the gratuity fund; (iv) other contractual arrangements which do not stipulate transfer of title but only use of the assets; and (v) such other assets as may be notified by the Central Government in consultation with any financial sector regulator; (b) assets in security collateral held by financial services providers and are subject to netting and set-off in multilateral trading or clearing transactions; (c) personal assets of any shareholder or partner of a corporate debtor as the case may be provided such assets are not held on account of avoidance transactions that may be avoided under this Chapter; (d) assets of any Indian or foreign subsidiary of the corporate debtor; or (e) any other assets as may be specified by the Board, including assets which could be subject to set off on account of mutual dealings between the corporate debtor and any creditor.