23. It can be seen from the said that an appeal was made to this Court that since number of vacancies were still available, the candidates who were initially in the select list dated 14th July 2015 and went out of the select list due to redrawing of the select list, they could be accommodated. However, this Court did not issue any direction in that regard and permitted such candidates to make representation which was to be considered by the respondent-Corporation. 24. It is thus clear from the aforesaid that such of the candidates who were having CCC certificate issued by DOEACC/NIELIT on the date of interview and who were part of the select list dated 14th July 2015 could not have been terminated by the respondent-Corporation. 25. It also appears that the respondent-Corporation has been taking contradictory stands. Before the High Court, it took a stand that not only such candidates having CCC certificate issued by DOEACC/ NIELIT but also such candidates who had submitted certificate by self- certification were also entitled to be considered. It is only now that the respondent-Corporation is taking a stand that such of the candidates who did not have CCC certificate on 30th September 2014 i.e., [2024] 11 S.C.R. 443 Mukul Kumar Tyagi v. The State of Uttar Pradesh and Others the last date of application could not be considered as eligible candidates. The stand is contrary not only to its advertisement dated 6th September 2014 but also to the office memorandum of the Board dated 29th January 2011 vide which the 1995 Regulations were amended. 26. We have therefore no hesitation in holding that services of such of the candidates who were selected in the select list dated 14th July 2015 and had produced the CCC certificate at the time of the interview could not have been terminated. We find that the respondent-Corporation has grossly erred in terminating their services. At the same time, we are not inclined to accept the contention of those candidates who did not have CCC certificate even on the date of their interview but have obtained the same subsequently. When the advertisement as well as the 1995 Regulations required the CCC certificate to be produced at the time of interview, if it is permitted to produce the same subsequent to the date of interview, it would be contrary to the advertisement and the 1995 Regulations. 27. It was also sought to be urged on behalf of the respondent- Corporation that such a relief could not have been granted by the present applications. We clarify that, this Court itself vide dated 30th January 2023, while disposing of the writ petition filed under Article 32 of the Constitution of India, granted a liberty to file an appropriate application in disposed of CA No. 9026 of 2019 with connected matters. This Court has subsequently observed that, in peculiar facts and circumstances, if such application was filed, the same would be entertained by the Registry of this Court. 28. We therefore find that the present case is a fit case wherein this Court should exercise its extraordinary jurisdiction under Article 142 of the Constitution of India.