The learned [2024] 9 S.C.R. 391 Pune Municipal Corporation v. Sus Road Baner Vikas Manch and Others counsel for respondent No. 1 submitted that the said Checklist specifically prescribes that no development zone of 500 metres was required to be kept from the boundary of the landfill site. Further relying on the Checklist, the learned counsel submitted that the buffer zone of 500 metres was required to be kept from the Solid Waste Processing Plant as well. A perusal of the said Checklist would reveal that the requirement of no-development zone or a buffer zone is only with regards to landfill sites. It can further be seen that the Schedules framed under Rules 6 (1)(3) and 7 (2) of the 2000 Rules prescribe separate Schedules for landfill sites on one hand and Composting, Treated Leachates and Incineration by waste processing or disposal facilities on the other hand. From the said Schedule-III which is applicable to landfill sites, it can be seen that under clause 9, a buffer zone of no-development is required to be maintained around the landfill site and the same shall be incorporated in the Town Planning Department’s land use plans. However, insofar as the Standards for Composting, Treated Leachates and Incineration are concerned, the same read as under: “3. In to prevent pollution problems from compost plant and other processing facilities, the following shall be complied with, namely :- i. The incoming wastes at site shall be maintained prior to further processing. To the extent possible, the waste storage area should be covered. If, such storage is done in an open area, it shall be provided with impermeable base with facility for collection of leachate and surface water run-off into lined drains leading to a leachate treatment and disposal facility; ii. Necessary precautions shall be taken to minimise nuisance of odour, flies, rodents, bird menace and fire hazard; iii. In case of breakdown or maintenance of plant, waste intake shall be stopped and arrangements be worked out for diversion of wastes to the landfill site; iv. Pre-process and post-process rejects shall be 392 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports removed from the processing facility on regular basis and shall not be allowed to pile at the site. Recyclables shall be routed through appropriate vendors. The non-recyclables shall be sent for well designed landfill site(s). v. In case of compost plant, the windrow area shall be provided with impermeable base. Such a base shall be made of concrete or compacted clay, 50 cm thick, having permeability coefficient less than 10 –7 cm/sec. The base shall be provided with 1 to 2 per cent slope and circled by lined drains for collection of leachate or surface run-off; vi. Ambient air quality monitoring shall be regularly carried out particularly for checking odour nuisance at down-wind direction on the boundary of processing plant.” 40. We are therefore of the considered view that the contention of the learned counsel for respondent No. 1 that under the 2000 Rules, a buffer zone is required to be maintained insofar as the GPP is concerned is without substance.