201 of List V (Eighth Week) in clause (2) of the proposed new article 300B after the words ‘Parliament may’ the words ‘and subject to its decision the State Legislature’ be inserted.” I have always been fighting that the Governor should have power to safeguard the rights of the Tribes. I am glad in some measure this has been conceded. Yet I find certain amount of suspicion in that the State Legislature is neglected. The Drafting Committee has not allowed the State Legislature to have a voice. In to fill up that lacuna I have said that Parliament may and subject to its decision the State Legislature. Shri. T. T. Krishnamachari: Then what is left to the State Legislature? Shri Kuladhar Chaliha: Somehow or other I feel you have neglected it. In these you have covered a good deal which you had objected to in the past. The Governor has been given power I am glad to say. The only thing is provincial assemblies have no voice in this. Whatever Parliament says they are bound by it; but if there is anything which consistently with the s of the Parliament they can do anything, they should be allowed to have the power. That is why I have moved this. However I am thankful [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1611 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. this time that the Drafting Committee has assimilated good ideas and only provincial assemblies have been neglected. However, the Governor is there—that is an improvement—Parliament, is there and the President is there. Therefore, I thank the Drafting Committee for this. Mr. President: Mr. Sidhva. The Honourable Dr. B. R. Ambedkar: It is already covered. Shri Brajeshwar Prasad (Bihar: General). There are some amendments seeking to add some more clauses. Mr. President: ‘That is a separate matter. These were all the amendments. Shri V. I. Muniswami Pillai: Mr. President, I come to support the amendments that have been moved by the Honourable Dr. Ambedkar. These amendments deal with the definition of Scheduled Castes. As far as I can see he has made it clear that according to the second part of it, the President on the 26th January 1950 will publish a list of such communities that come under the category of Scheduled Castes. But I would like to inform this House of the background which brought out the special name of Scheduled Castes. It was the intouchability, the social evil that has been practised by the Hindu Community for ages, that was responsible for the Government and the people to know the section of people coming under the category of Hindus and who were kept at the outskirts of the Hindu society. Going backwards to 1916 it was in that year when Government found that something had to be done for the untouchable classes, (when they said untouchable classes, they were always understood to be Hindus,) and they had to be recognised. In Madras there were six communities that came under this classification.