3.12. The aggrieved Appellants are now before this Court. B. CONTENTIONS OF THE PARTIES 4. Mr. Ranbir Singh Yadav, Learned Counsel appearing for the Appellants, argued that Respondent No. 2’s complaint pertaining to the forgery of the passport application was merely a counterblast to the Appellant – wife’s complaint alleging cruelty against him. He contended that Respondent No. 2 had expressly consented to obtaining the minor child’s passport and after the issuance of passport, had even sent the sponsorship letter authored by his brother-in-law, Dr. M.K. Shariff, for the relocation of the Appellant – wife and the [2024] 1 S.C.R. 631 Mariam Fasihuddin & Anr. v. State by Adugodi Police Station & Anr. minor child to London. It was argued that this sponsorship letter is vital since it had been obtained at the instance of Respondent No. 2 and it specifically mentioned the passport number of the minor child, thereby implying consent of Respondent No. 2. 5. Mr. Yadav further contended that the opinion rendered by the State FSL was inconclusive as to the alleged forgery, and no additional material whatsoever had been recovered by the investigating agency between filing the original chargesheet and the supplementary chargesheet. Mr. Yadav also highlighted the reliance placed by both the High Court and the Trial Magistrate on the opinion of a handwriting expert obtained by Respondent No. 2 through a private agency – known as the Truth Lab. He vehemently urged that the State FSL Report should have been given utmost weightage in comparison to a paid opinion so as to uphold the fairness and impartiality of the investigation. Mr. Yadav contended that no prima facie case had been made out against the Appellants. Citing the decision of this Court in Krishna Chawla v. State of UP,1 he emphasised upon the duty of the Trial Magistrate to nip frivolous prosecution in the bud before it reaches the trial stage by discharging the accused in fit cases. 6. Contrarily, Mr. Narender Hooda, Learned Senior Counsel representing Respondent No. 2, strongly refuted the allegations levelled by the Appellants. He strenuously urged that Respondent No. 2 was not present in India during the period from 13.07.2008 to 17.11.2009, when the alleged passport application with his forged signatures was submitted, to procure the minor child’s passport. He further argued that the Trial Magistrate has unequivocally observed that the Passport Officer (Accused No. 4), who deliberately withheld the original passport application, was an accomplice in the offence of the destruction of evidence. Additionally, Mr. Hooda objected to discarding the Truth Lab report at the stage of deciding the discharge application on the premise that the report of the State FSL was ambiguous and that the veracity of the private lab report could be ascertained only at the time of trial. 7. In addition to the full insight of the controversy, as highlighted by the learned counsel for the parties, we have also meticulously perused the chargesheets and other documents brought on record by them. 1 (2021) 5 SCC 435, para 23.