Clause (2) of Section 41A thereafter, demands that an individual to whom such a notice has been issued, complies with the same. Section 41A (3) bears out that an individual who complies and continues to comply with such notice is not to be arrested in respect of the offence mentioned, unless the police officer, for reasons to be recorded, deems it necessary to arrest them. Finally, Section 41A (4) stipulates that if an individual fails to comply with the notice or refuses to identify themself, the police may arrest such an individual for the offence recorded in the notice, subject to any s passed by a competent court. 18. Given the lucid nature of the language of the provision, it is crucial to examine the circumstances surrounding the Appellant’s arrest in to gauge whether there was due compliance with the procedural safeguards enshrined within Section 41A. In the present context, since the Appellant was already in judicial custody at the relevant time in the ED case, the CBI filed an application on 24.06.2024 before the Trial Court under Section 41A of the CrPC, inter alia seeking to interrogate and examine him. Such examination was allegedly necessitated by new facts and evidence uncovered by the CBI upon further investigation. The CBI, vide this application, outlined 698 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the reasons prompting such examination, including the purported irregularities in the framing and implementation of the Excise Policy, and its manipulation to facilitate the monopolization and cartelization of wholesale and retail liquor trade in India. 19. The application also alleged that, upon further investigation, statements from several witnesses, incriminating documents and messages exchanged between the accused persons named in the chargesheets, revealed that the Appellant was a critical component in the criminal conspiracy related to the Excise Policy. It was claimed that the Appellant, in connivance with the other accused persons, engaged in tweaking the policy to enhance the profit margin of wholesalers from 5% to 12%, resulting in significant windfall gains. These gains were ultimately alleged to have been utilised by the Appellant’s political party towards election related expenses, during the 2021-22 Goa Assembly elections. The application highlighted that the emergence of these new facts, pointing toward the Appellant’s complicity, required further examination, as there was reasonable suspicion of his involvement in the commission of the offence. Upon considering these reasons, the Trial Court, by its dated 24.06.2024, allowed the CBI’s application seeking to interrogate the Appellant. 20. At this juncture, it is pertinent to first address the Appellant’s allegations regarding the CBI’s non-compliance with Section 41A of the CrPC, particularly concerning the issuance of notice or lack thereof. In this regard, it is crucial to draw reference to the language and intent of the provision, which aims to ensure an individual’s appearance through the issuance of a notice. The provision, however, does not outline any express procedure to be undertaken where the individual in question is already incarcerated. It is to be remembered that the Court is, in a way, the guardian of an undertrial, while he is in judicial custody.