Section 53T identifies the parties that can file an appeal, as opposed to Section 31 of the AERA Act which only mandates that “an appeal shall lie against any , not being an interlocutory of the Appellate Tribunal to the Supreme Court”; and f. Institutional bias is not recognised in Indian jurisprudence. An institution or authority is independent of its officers who act under it. C. Issues 15. The following issues arise for the consideration of this Court: a. Whether AERA has a right to contest an appeal against its determining tariff for aeronautical services before TDSAT, and then consequently prefer an appeal against the of TDSAT before this Court under Section 31 of the AERA Act; and b. Even if AERA does not have a right to contest an appeal against its determining tariff for aeronautical services before TDSAT, does it have a right to prefer an appeal against [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1419 Airports Economic Regulatory Authority of India v. Delhi International Airport Ltd. & Ors. the of TDSAT before this Court in terms of Section 31 of the AERA Act. D. Analysis i. Authorities exercising ‘adjudicatory functions’ cannot defend their s in appeal 16. The respondents referred to s of this Court and of various High Courts for the proposition that statutory authorities exercising quasi-judicial functions cannot defend their s in appeal. Before we proceed to determine if AERA is a quasi-judicial authority, it is necessary that we first clarify the contours of this proposition. 17. The judicial principle that a judicial or quasi-judicial authority must not be impleaded as a party to an appeal against its is premised on two reasons, both rooted in constitutional philosophy. The first reason is that with the impleadment of the judicial or quasi-judicial authorities as respondents, they will be required to justifytheir decision before the Appellate Court. This is contrary to the established principle that Judges only speak through their s. Any dilution of this principle would lead to a situation where every judicial authority would be called upon to justify their decisions in the Court of appeal. This would break down the entire edifice of the judicial system. 18. In Savitri Devi v. District Jugde, Gorakhpur,23 a civil suit for maintenance was filed in the Court of the Munsif, Gorakhpur. The plaintiff filed a revision in the Court of the District Judge, Gorakhpur which was dismissed. The of the District Judge was challenged in a writ petition before the High Court which was also dismissed. A Special Leave Petition was instituted assailing the of the High Court. In the writ petition before the High Court and the Special Leave Petition before this Court, the District Judge, Gorakhpur and the 4th Additional Civil Judge (Junior Division) were impleaded as respondents and contesting respondents respectively. A three-Judge Bench of this Court deprecated the practice of impleading judicial officers who had disposed of “the matter in a civil proceeding”: “14. We do not approve of the course adopted by the petitioner which would cause unnecessary disturbance to 23 [1999] 1 SCR 725 : (1999) 2 SCC 577 1420 [2024] 10 S.C.R.