Coelho”. The question as to whether privately owned resources are part of “material resources of the community” as used in Article 39(b), has been answered by the learned Chief Justice as “yes”, “the phrase may include privately owned resources”, but not in the expansive manner as held by the three learned judges in State of Karnataka v. Ranganatha Reddy (1977) 4 SCC 471 and later in Sanjeev Coke Mfg. Co. v. Bharat Coking Coal Ltd. (1983) 1 SCC 147. The further sets limits on what could be “material resources of the community”. 264 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports I am unable to accept the above proposition as this view ultimately holds that not all privately owned resources are “material resources of the community”. Not only this it further limits the hands of the legislature to a non-exhaustive list of factors to determine which resources can be considered as “material resources”. In my opinion there is no need for this pre-emptive determination. The definition of “material resources of the community” was purposely kept in generalized and broad-based terms, with which I intend to deal in some detail later in this . I entirely endorse the view taken by the Three learned Judges in Ranganatha Reddy and by the Five learned Judges in Sanjeev Coke, as to the scope and ambit of “material resources of the community”. Privately owned resources are a part of the “material resources of the community”. 4. The question which is there before us is not simply a legal or constitutional question. The question is as much rooted in our modern and contemporary history, as it is in law. Therefore, discussions on the historical background immediately preceding independence as well as on the debates in the Constituent Assembly are extremely important, in my consideration. 5. “We may have democracy, or we may have wealth concentrated in the hands of a few, but we cannot have both.” This expression is attributed to Justice Louis D. Brandeis,1 an eminent Jurist and a former Judge of US Supreme Court. Without doubt, when Articles 38 and 39 of the Constitution of India were being incorporated in Part IV of our Constitution, a similar thought dominated the minds of the framers of our Constitution. It is for this reason that Granville Austin calls the Indian Constitution, “first and foremost a social document”.2 Our Constitution is not merely a roadmap for governance, it is also a vision for a just and equitable society. The members of our constituent assembly were freedom fighters, social reformers, scholars and lawyers. The struggle against colonial rule for them was not just to liberate India politically, but also to change it for the better, both socially and economically, as inequality reigned everywhere in our 1 Louis Dembitz Brandeis was an associate Judge on the U.S. Supreme Court from 1916-1939. See Mr. Justice Brandeis, Great aMerican: Press OPiniOn & PuBlic aPPraisal (The Modern View Press, Saint Louis, 1941), pg.42. 2 Granville austin, the indian cOnstitutiOn: cOrnerstOne Of a natiOn (Oxford University Press, New Delhi, Second Impression 2000), Pg.