11. The Mott Macdonald Report was submitted by the said consultants in September, 2016 at the behest of the erstwhile promoters/directors of the corporate debtor. The report itself is hedged with conditions and disclaimers. Value and worth of the report, the data and projections were for the prospective resolution applicants to evaluate. 12. On the aspect of 12,500 M.T. Press, it was clearly stated and noted that the said Press after import, was stored in the shed belonging to Clover Forging and Machining Pvt. Ltd. 13. Submission regarding the non-availability of Floor Space Index (FSI) at the plant in Aurangabad, was made with reference to the statement made by an employee of the corporate debtor. We are not inclined to accept this version of the successful resolution applicant. The corporate debtor has four units, three units in Maharashtra and one unit in Himachal Pradesh. False projection was not made. 14. The resolution plan submitted by the successful resolution applicants refers to the transaction audits being undertaken and acknowledges appropriation of the proceeds, if any available, to the resolution professional on the recoveries being made for prior period. The principle of “clean slate” is well established and known. 15. Resolution plans are not prepared and submitted by lay persons. They are submitted after the financial statements and data are examined by domain and financial experts, who scan, appraise evaluate the material as available for its usefulness, with caution and scepticism. Inadequacies and paltriness of data are accounted and chronicled for valuations and the risk involved. It is rather strange to argue that the superspecialists and financial experts were gullible and misunderstood the details, figures or data. The assumption is that the resolution applicant would submit the revival/resolution plan specifying the monetary amount and other obligations, after in-depth analysis of the fiscal and commercial viability of the corporate debtor. Pointing out the ambiguities or lack of specific details or data, post acceptance of the resolution plan by the Committee of Creditors, should be rejected, except in an egregious case were data and facts are fudged or concealed. Absence or ambiguity of details and particulars should put the parties to caution, and it is for them to 1050 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports ascertain details, and exercise discretion to submit or not submit resolution plan. 16. Records of corporate debtor, who are in financial distress, may suffer from data asymmetry, debatable or even wrong data. Thus, the provision for transactional audit etc, but this takes time and is not necessary before information memorandum or virtual data room is set up. Financial experts being aware, do tread with caution. Information memorandum is not to be tested applying “the true picture of risk” obligation, albeit as observed by the NCLAT the resolution professional’s obligation to provide information has to be understood on “best effort” basis. 17. In view of the aforesaid position, we set aside the impugned dated 07.02.2020 passed by the NCLAT, upholding the passed by the NCLT, dated 27.09.2019. In other words, we accept the present appeals and it is held that the resolution plan, as submitted by the successful resolution applicants – Deccan Value Investors L.P. and DVI PE (Mauritius) Ltd., is approved.