1161 Gulshan Bajwa v. Registrar, High Court of Delhi & Anr. 12. The High Court categorically noted that the appellant has prima facie committed criminal contempt of court and the magnanimity shown to him has resulted in doing acts and omissions of graver nature, thus, treating the tolerance as weakness of administration of justice. The High Court held that the acts are intentional, malicious and have persisted over a long period and are now clearly interfering with the administration of justice and lowering the dignity of the Court. 13. Having recounted the above-referred incidents, the High Court through its and dated 19.10.2006 found the appellant guilty of criminal contempt and awarded a punishment of simple imprisonment of 3 months along with a fine of Rs. 2000, in each contempt proceeding. It is basing this conviction and sentence that the appellant has filed the instant appeal. Proceedings before this Court: 14. While admitting the appeal, this Court by dated 16.04.2007, granted a stay of the impugned dated 19.10.2006. Thereafter, the record of proceedings are replete with requests for adjournments, and finally, by dated 01.08.2023, one of us, vacated the interim and directed that the case will be heard without any further adjournments. Thus, we heard the appellant and have also permitted him to file written submissions. The written submissions were filed. Submissions before this Court: 15. The appellant made the following submissions: (i) notice in one of the connected matters was issued by a Judge who is still a member of this Court. Therefore, it is the submission of the appellant that these matters should be heard by a bench presided over by that particular Judge; (ii) none of the connected matters are related to the contempt petition. Therefore, they must be de-tagged and be heard separately; (iii) the Court Martial proceedings which were relied upon by the High Court are not relevant to the present proceedings; (iv) the matters before the High Court, in which the appellant was appearing as a counsel, were being adjourned without a pass- over being granted on the first call; (v) the threat given to the lady advocate was nothing but elderly advice; (vi) no show cause notice in the contempt proceedings was served on him; (vii) all the transfer petitions and the underlying matters were transferred to one single bench without following the rules framed by the High Court relating 1162 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports to assignment of matters; (viii) the Judges who heard his case and issued notice under the Act were biased against him; and (ix) the appellant challenged all other proceedings initiated against him on the ground that the authorities conducting such proceedings were biased against him. 16. We have also heard the learned counsel for the Respondent. It was their submission that the impugned herein has been rendered after a detailed consideration of the material placed before them. It was submitted that the appellant had appeared before the Court pursuant to service of show cause notice under the Act, and the submission that there was no proper service of notice is not correct.