They are responsible to review all ongoing projects involving high risk category and controlled field experiments and to ensure that adequate precautions and containment conditions are followed as per the guidelines. iii. Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBSC) - They are given the responsibility to assist the occupier or any person (including research institutions handling microorganisms/ genetically engineered organisms) in preparing an up to date on site emergency plan according to the manuals/ guidelines of the RCGM and make available copies to the DLC/SBCC and the GEAC. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1899 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. iv. Genetic Engineering Approval Committee (GEAC) - This committee is constituted for approval of activities involving large scale use of hazardous microorganisms and recombinants in research and industrial production from the environmental angle. It shall be responsible for approval of proposals relating to release of genetically engineered organisms and products into the environment including experimental field trials. The committee or any person authorised by it, is empowered to take punitive action under the EPA, 1986. v. State Biotechnology Co-Ordination Committee (SBCC) - At State level, this Committee has powers to inspect, investigate and take punitive action in case of violations of statutory provisions. It shall also periodically review the safety and control measures in various industries/institutions handling genetically engineered organisms/hazardous microorganisms. vi. District Level Committee (DLC) - At the district level, in to supervise the safety measures, this Committee is constituted wherever necessary under the District Collectors to monitor the safety regulations in installations engaged in the use of genetically modified organisms/ hazardous microorganisms and its applications in the environment. It shall visit the installation engaged in activity involving genetically engineered organisms, hazardous microorganisms, formulate information chart, find out hazards and risks associated with each of these installations and coordinate activities with a view to meeting any emergency. This Committee shall regularly submit its report to the SBCC/GEAC. 27.2. Rule 7 of the 1989 Rules deals with approval and prohibitions. It reads thus: “(1) No person shall import, export, transport, manufacture, process, use or sell any hazardous microorganisms or genetically engineered organisms/ substances or cells except with the approval of the Genetic Engineering Approval Committee. 1900 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (2) Use of pathogenic microorganism or any genetically engineered organisms or cell for the purpose of research shall only be allowed in laboratories or inside laboratory areas notified by the Ministry of Environment and Forests for this purpose under the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986. (3) The Genetic Engineering Approval Committee shall give directions to the occupier to determine or take measures concerning the discharge of micro- organisms/genetically engineered organisms or cells mentioned in the schedule from the laboratories, hospitals and other areas including prohibition of such discharges and laying down measures to be taken to prevent such discharges. (4) Any person operating or using genetically engineered organism microorganisms mentioned in the schedule for scale up or pilot operations shall have to obtain licence issued by the Genetic Engineering Approval Committee for any such activity.