It is stated that for ensuring that there is no overcrowding in jails for the next 10 years, action will be taken on a proposal of ₹ 22.8 crores for construction of 19 additional prisoner barracks, which would further boost the capacity by 1900. Provision thereof would be made in the Budget of the next Financial Year and the work would be completed by December, 2026. 18. With regard to the welfare of women prisoners and children in the prison, the Note sets out that the State’s position is that overcrowding would be solved by completion of the already-sanctioned barracks as also barracks to be sanctioned in the coming Financial Year. It is said that free sanitary pads are being provided to the women prisoners and an incinerator machine has also been installed for their disposal. It is informed that adequate arrangements for toilets and bathrooms in the women’s cells and for night toilets in the barracks has been made, to handle cleanliness and hygiene. The State submits that adequate water facilities are in place. For children living with female prisoners, who are detained in jail, it is stated that nutritious food, clothes and medical facilities as per the relevant jail rules are being provided. Babies are provided clothes, food and milk on the advice of the doctor. Baby-kit clothes, soap, oil, powder, mosquito net, rexine, etc., are being given for new-born baby/ies. A crèche has been arranged in the jails for children. Children above the age of six years, who do not have any guardian, are kept in a Children’s [2024] 5 S.C.R. 1049 In Re-Inhuman Conditions In 1382 Prisons Home, with permission from the concerned District Magistrate. It is informed that the Children’s Home is equipped for the intellectual and physical development of the children. 19. The AC has submitted that construction in the existing barracks would ease the overcrowding to some extent, but the affidavit of the Chief Secretary/Note of the Director General, Prisons does not deal with the recommendations of the Committee regarding each of the 16 Central and District Jails. The AC points out that administrative approval in many cases is pending such as construction of a special jail with capacity of 4000 prisoners in Raipur District, acquisition of land in Village Deori, approval for new jails in Balrampur etc. 20. The AC seeks following directions: ‘a) The Government may examine the specific recommendations qua 16 central/ district jails as highlighted in the note of the undersigned and examine whether the additional construction of barracks would ease of overcrowding in that jail. The problem of overcrowding must be seen at jail level and not for the entire State as a whole. b) The additional capacity should be matched with other infrastructure like toilets and enhancement of staff. This aspect should also be examined by the State. c) It has been mentioned that 19 additional prison barracks of 100 each would be approved in this financial year. It is prayed that the State Government may be directed to approve the said proposals within a period of 3 months so that construction could began.