ο Arcadia undertook the shipment vide two bills of lading7 -(i) Bill of Lading No. DJB-06 for 200 MT of galvanized steel corrugated sheets and (ii) Bill of Lading No. DJB-07 for 198 MT of galvanized steel corrugated sheets. ο The freight charges for shipping were prepaid by Bhushan Steel to Arcadia. ο Arcadia was directed to deliver the goods to the of the Bank of Ethiopia, to whom documents had been submitted by Bhushan Steel through their bankers, Punjab National Bank8. The documents were to be negotiated under the Letter of Credit. ‘ ο PNB had sent the said documents to the Bank of Ethiopia for making the payments. All formalities for encashing the Letter of Credit had been completed by Bhushan Steel. ο However, Bank of Ethiopia refused to encash the Letter of Credit on the grounds of discrepancies. ο Vide fax message dated 25.08.1999, Bhushan Steel was informed by Arcadia that both the shipments had been released to the consignee, TYO Trading, as they had duly presented a Bill of Lading, endorsed by Bank of Ethiopia. 7 8 For short, “PNB”. 408 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports ο Vide letter dated 07.09.1998, TYO Trading informed Bhushan Steel, through M.G. Trading, that they had made the payment, which would be released by the Bank of Ethiopia. ο The payment was not received by Bhushan Steel. The material was delivered and could not be shipped back to Bhushan Steel. ο Thus, the defendants had taken a contradictory stand. While TYO Trading had stated that they had paid for the goods, the Bank of Ethiopia had refused to honour the Letter of Credit. Arcadia had stated that the material had been released to TYO Trading upon presentation of the Bill of Lading which was duly endorsed by the Bank of Ethiopia. Further, PNB had returned the original documents, including the Bill of Ladings to Bhushan Steel stating that they had received them without any encashment of the Letter of Credit by the Bank of Ethiopia. ο Paragraphs 22 and 29 of the plaint read as under: “22. That thus the fact remains that the payment of the said bill of lading has not been paid to the plaintiff and is still liable to be paid to the plaintiff and the plaintiff is fully entitled for an amount of US$ 2,76,510 which is the liability of defendant no.1 and 2 in the event of goods rightly being released by defendant no. 3 after obtaining duly endorsed bill of lading from defendant no. 2, but in case the goods had been released without obtaining the endorsement then it is the liability of defendant nos. 1, 2 and 3 jointly and severally towards plaintiff for making payment thereof as defendant no. 2 cannot escape its liability under any circumstances as if the irrevocable Letter of Credit would not have been issued by defendant no.2 duly transferred in favour of plaintiff, the plaintiff would not have supplied the said goods and since despite the fact that all the conditions of supply was fulfilled by plaintiff of the irrevocable Letter of Credit, the defendant no.2 have not released the payment, therefore the liability of defendant no.2 remains in all eventuality and the liability of defendant no.3 arises if they had delivered the goods without obtaining endorsement from defendant no.2 and as such in [2024] 5 S.C.R.