[Paras 37-39, 43, 49, 54, 58] Criminal Law – Right to fair trial – Right of the accused to inspect documents including “un-relied upon documents”: Held: Accused has the right to fair trial, cannot be denied the right to have inspection of the documents including the “un-relied upon documents”. [Para 47] Bail – To be granted as a rule, jail is exception – Non- observance by Courts, deprecated: Held: Bail is not to be withheld as a punishment – Trial courts and High Courts play safe in matters of grant of bail and the principle that bail is a rule and refusal is an exception is, at times, followed in breach – It is high time that the trial courts and the High Courts should recognize the principle that “bail is rule and jail is exception”. [Para 53] Special Leave Petitions (SLPs) – Preliminary objection as regards the maintainability of the second set of SLPs – Delhi’s Excise Policy Cases, irregularities alleged in the framing and implementation – Cases by CBI and ED, appellant arrested – Previously two rounds of litigation, present is the third round before this Court – In earlier rounds of litigation, liberty was granted to the appellant to move a fresh application for bail in case of change in circumstances or in case the trial was [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1063 Manish Sisodia v. Directorate of Enforcement protracted – Preliminary objection was raised as regards the maintainability of the present appeals on account of the second of this Court, contending that the second set of SLPs cannot be filed to challenge the of the High Court when the earlier SLPs arising out of the same were disposed of: Held: Rejected – This Court was concerned about the prolonged period of incarceration suffered by the appellant – Assurance was given by the prosecution that the trial shall be concluded by taking appropriate steps within next 6-8 months however, far from the trial being concluded within a period of 6-8 months, it is even yet to commence – Liberty was granted to the appellant to revive his prayer after filing of the chargesheet – Relegating the appellant to again approach the trial court and thereafter the High Court when they have already taken a view would be an empty formality – Right to speedy trial is a fundamental right within the broad scope of Article 21 – Liberty reserved by this Court vide its second , to revive the request of the appellant was a liberty given by this Court to revive his prayer afresh after filing of the final complaint/charge-sheet – Undisputedly, the present appeals were filed after the final complaint/charge-sheet were filed by the respondents. [Paras 29, 32, 43] Case Law Cited Kunhayammed and Others v. State of Kerala and Others [2000] Supp. 1 SCR 538 : (2000) 6 SCC 359; P. Ponnusamy v. State of Tamil Nadu [2022] 15 SCR 265 : (2022) SCC OnLine SC 1543; Vijay Madanlal Choudhary and Others v. Union of India and Others [2022] 6 SCR 382 : (2022) SCC OnLine SC 929; Prabir Purkayastha v. State (NCT of Delhi) [2024] 6 SCR 666 : (2024) SCC OnLine SC 934; Ramkripal Meena v. Directorate of Enforcement (SLP (Crl.)