The Chairperson may, in the alternative, on their own motion or on a request by the applicant, refer the record to the Revising Committee under Rule 24. The Revising Committee shall examine the film and send the recommendations to the Chairperson of the Board. If the Chairperson disagrees with the decision by majority of the Revising Committee, the Board shall itself examine the film or cause the film to be examined again by another Revising Committee and the decision of the Board or a second Revising Committee, as the case may be, shall be final.12 The certificate granted by the Board is published in the Gazette is valid for 10 years.13 16. The Board may sanction the film for unrestricted public exhibition (‘U’ certificate); public exhibition restricted to adults (‘A’ certificate); (U/A certificate); or public exhibition restricted to members of a class, having regard to the nature, content and theme of the film (‘S’ certificate). The Board may certify the film as it is, or subject to excisions or modifications or refuse to sanction the film for public exhibition altogether. 17. Section 5B provides that a film shall not be certified if in the opinion of the Board, it is against “the interests of the sovereignty and integrity 10 Cinematograph (Certification) Rules, 1983, Rule 22. 11 ibid, Rule 22 (13). 12 ibid, Rule 24. 13 ibid, Rule 29. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 261 Nipun Malhotra v. Sony Pictures Films India Private Limited & Ors. of India, the security of the State, friendly relations with foreign States, public , decency or morality, or involves defamation or contempt of court or is likely to incite the commission of any offence.” Section 5B(2) states that the Central Government may delineate principles to guide the authority granting a certificate for public exhibition of films. Accordingly, Guidelines have been framed in 1991. I. The 1991 Guidelines 18. The appellant states that the egregious portrayal of characters with disabilities in the film necessitates judicially mandated checks and the framing of guidelines for creators of content. The Guidelines, framed under Section 5B of the Cinematograph Act, are interpreted as broad standards and require (inter alia) that the Board must ensure that scenes showing abuse of physically or mentally handicapped persons are not presented needlessly.14 The guidelines prescribe sensitive portrayal of women, children and persons with disabilities.15 The film must be examined as a whole and in line with contemporary standards of the country and the people to whom it relates. 19. This Court has laid down tests to determine challenges to the portrayal of persons, situations and characters in films. The aversion defence states that the portrayal of a social evil meant to arouse revulsion, such as scenes of sexual violence or communal tension, are meant to draw attention to these evils rather than to glorify them. They must not be barred for mere portrayal and due regard must be had to the overall message of the film, rather than standalone scenes.16 Films must remain sensitive to standards of society and alive to social changes.17 The Board is required to view the film as a whole in applying the above metrics.