Even if the appellant was not a financial creditor, the resolution plan ought to have noticed (f) any amount raised under any other transaction, including any forward sale or purchase agreement, having the commercial effect of a borrowing; Explanation.-- For the purposes of this sub clause,-- (i) any amount raised from an allottee under a real estate project shall be deemed to be an amount having the commercial effect of a borrowing; and (ii) the expressions, “allottee” and “real estate project” shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them in clauses (d) and (zn) of Section 2 of the Real Estate (Regulation and Development Act, 2016 (16 of 2016); (g) any derivative transaction entered into in connection with protection against or benefit from fluctua- tion in any rate or price and for calculating the value of any derivative transaction, only the market value of such transaction shall be taken into account; (h) any counter indemnity obligation in respect of a guarantee, indemnity bond, documentary letter of credit or any other instrument issued by a bank or financial institution; (i) the amount of any liability in respect of any of the guarantee or indemnity for any of the items referred to in sub-clauses (a) to (h) of this clause; [2024] 2 S.C.R. 269 Greater Noida Industrial Development Authority v. Prabhjit Singh Soni & Anr. its claim as a secured creditor whereas the of approval dated 4.8.2020 describes the appellant as one who did not submit its claim. (b) The meetings of the COC were not notified to the appellant to enable its participation. In absence thereof, the resolution plan stood vitiated. (c) At the time of approving the resolution plan, the adjudicating authority failed to consider whether the plan had made provisions commensurate to appellant’s claim, and the statutory charge which the appellant enjoyed over the assets of the CD. Not only that, it overlooked the ownership and statutory rights of the appellant over the land and thereby failed to consider whether the plan was feasible and viable. In absence of such consideration, the of approval stood vitiated. (d) The finding that there had been a delay on part of the appellant in pursuing its remedies is misconceived, particularly when it was established on record that I.A. No.344/ 2021 was filed promptly on 6.10.2020 upon getting information on 24.09.2020 from the monitoring agency regarding approval of the plan. Likewise, I.A. No.1380/ 2021 was filed immediately on 15.03.2021 when suspension of the period of limitation for any suit, appeal, application or proceeding, imposed between 15.03.2020 and 14.03.2021, was lifted in terms of this Court’s dated 8.03.2021 in RE: Cognizance For Extension of Limitation18. Submissions on behalf of the respondents 15. Dr. Abhishek Manu Singhvi, leading the arguments on behalf of the respondents, submitted that the issue as to whether dues payable to an Industrial Area Development Authority, like the appellant, towards lease/ allotment premium / rental, would be a financial debt or not is no longer res integra, as it stands settled by a decision of this Court in Anand Sonbhadra (supra), wherein it has been held that it is not a financial debt.