Mother Provincial (supra) was cited. There being no reference in Anjuman-e-Rahmania (supra) of Very Rev. Mother Provincial (supra), a binding decision, certainly the said decision of the Constitution Bench had not been placed before the benchof 2 (two) Judges by the set of very learned senior counsel appearing before it who agreed with the bench on the question of (in)correctness of Azeez Basha (supra). Regarding the second question, there cannot be any comparison of chalk and cheese. I have no hesitation to hold that the case dealt with by Azeez Basha (supra) and the one arising for decision in Anjuman-e-Rahmania (supra) were fundamentally different and in stark contrast with each other. Therefore, even on merits, there was no good reason to make a reference for being placed before a bench of 7 (seven) Judges which Anjuman-e-Rahmania (supra) ed. 43. Now turning to Aligarh Muslim University (supra), I have been unable to comprehend as to how question 3(a) could be said to coincidentally reflect the questions referred by Anjuman-e-Rahmania (supra). As evident from a bare reading of question 3(a), it had two parts: the first is, what is the indicia for treating an educational institution as a minority educational institution? Secondly, would an institution be regarded as a minority educational institution because it was established by a person(s) belonging to a religious/linguistic minority or its being administered by a person(s) belonging to a religious/linguistic minority? 44. In any event, qua question 3(a), why did the bench of 11 (eleven) Judges in TMA Pai Foundation (supra) not consider necessary to even attempt to answer it and relegate the same to the Regular Bench of 2 (two) Judges? Was it too trivial a question not meriting an answer or was there some other reason? Though the answer is not too obvious, the answer to the second part of question 3(a) seems to be firm and clear that the conjunction ‘and’ between ‘establish’ and ‘administer’ in Article 30(1) cannot be read as ‘or’ for the reasons that I seek to highlight a little later. 45. If one were to form the opinion that the question as to indicia for treating an educational institution as a minority educational institution was traceable to Anjuman-e-Rahmania (supra), that can only happen if the said were misread or some additional words were read into it. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1879 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. 46. It is one thing to identify indicia, i.e., indicia that are already existing. However, if indicia have to be formulated, i.e., created, by us in course of these proceedings, are we not discrediting the earlier Constitution Bench decisions on minority status vis-à-vis rights under Article 30(1) premised on an implicit indicia, though not expressly declared as such? It is considered most inappropriate that the first part of question 3(a) has engaged our attention in the present discussions and deliberations. 47. I am firm in my conviction that the reference and the re-reference, for all the reasons discussed above, do not require a decision.