As per Rule 19(1), an officer shall retire from the service of SBI on attaining the age of 60 years or upon the completion of 30 years of service or 30 years of pensionable service, if he is a member of the Pension Fund, whichever occurs first. The first proviso says that the competent authority, may, for reasons to be recorded in writing, extend the period of service of an officer who has completed 30 years of service or 30 years of pensionable service, as the case may be, should such extension be deemed desirable in the interest of the bank. However, the second proviso clarifies that an officer who has attained the age of 60 years shall not be granted any further extension in service. 16.2. From a comparative analysis of 19(1) of the Service with Rule 19(1) of the Service Rules, what is discernible is that the only change introduced by the latter is in one of the conditions of superannuation i.e. the age. From 58 years it has now become 60 years. Rest of the provision has remained unaltered, including the contingencies of superannuation. Whether it is 58 or 60 years, it is only one of the contingencies of superannuation, not the sole. Before attaining the age of 58 years or 60 years, as the case may be, an officer shall superannuate from service if he has completed 30 years of service or 30 years of pensionable service. However, the second proviso has made a clarification that an officer who has attained the age of 60 years shall not be granted any further extension in service. This means that an officer can be superannuated before attaining the age of 60 years if any one of the other two contingencies are fulfilled; he may also be granted extension of service thereafter but such extension of service cannot be beyond the age of 60 years. 16.3. Rule 19(2), on the other hand, starts with a non-obstante clause. It says that notwithstanding anything to the contrary 812 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports in the Service Rules, no officer who has ceased to be in the bank’s service by the operation of, or by virtue of, any provision shall be deemed to have retired from the service of SBI for the purpose of the Imperial Bank of India Employees’ Pension and Guarantee Fund Rules or the State Bank of India Employees’ Pension Fund Rules unless such cessation of service has been sanctioned as retirement for the purpose of either of the said pension fund rules as may be applicable to him. Thus what Rule 19(2) contemplates is sanctioning of cessation of service for the purpose of the aforesaid two rules only and for no other purpose. 16.4. Sub-Rule (3) of Rule 19 provides that in case disciplinary proceeding under the relevant rules of service has been initiated against an officer before he ceases to be in the service of SBI by operation of, or by virtue of, any of the said rules or the provisions of the Service Rules, the disciplinary proceeding may at the discretion of the competent authority, be continued and concluded by the authority by which the proceeding was initiated in the manner provided in the said rules post cessation of service as if the officer continues to be in service; but he shall be deemed to be in service only for the purpose of continuance and conclusion of such proceeding.