6. By an interim dated 8 July 2024, this Court called for disclosures on affidavit by the NTA; the Union of India; and by the Central Bureau of Investigation.5 While flagging the principal issues in contention, the CBI has been involved in the process because the FIRs which were registered in Delhi, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Jharkhand, Maharashtra and Bihar have been transferred to it for investigation. In the earlier , this Court noted that it would have to scrutinize the following aspects on the basis of the data which would emerge on the record, namely: (i) Whether the alleged breach took place at a systemic level; (ii) Whether the breach is of a nature which affects the integrity of the entire examination process; and (iii) Whether it is possible to segregate the beneficiaries of the fraud from the untainted students. 7. Directions were consequently issued to the above agencies of the Union to make specific disclosures on the issues which have been highlighted in the previous . 8. Arguments have been heard over four days. We have had the benefit of considering the submissions urged on behalf of the petitioners, the Union of India and the NTA. Mr Y V Krishna, Additional Director, CBI has in the course of the proceedings apprised the Court on the status of the investigation. 9. Arguments have been concluded and has been reserved. 3 [2015] 7 SCR 780 : (2015) 6 SCC 573 4 [2021] 2 SCR 1073 : (2021) 4 SCC 631 5 “CBI” 964 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 10. There is an urgent need to provide certainty and finality to a dispute which affects the careers of over two million students. Hence, it is imperative that the final conclusions of the Court be recorded at the present stage. The reasons for the ultimate conclusions will follow later. 11. We proceed to record the essential conclusions in the following terms: (i) The fact that a leak of the NEET (UG) 2024 paper took place at Hazaribagh in the State of Jharkhand and at Patna in the State of Bihar is not in dispute; (ii) Following the transfer of the investigation to it, the CBI has filed its status reports dated 10 July 2024, 17 July 2024 and 21 July 2024. The disclosures by the CBI indicate that the investigation is continuing. The CBI has indicated that at the present stage, the material which has emerged during the course of the investigation would indicate that about 155 students drawn from the examination centres at Hazaribagh and Patna appear to be the beneficiaries of the fraud; (iii) Since the investigation by the CBI has not attained finality at the present point of time, this Court had in its previous required the Union Government to indicate whether trends in regard to the existence of abnormalities can be deduced through data analytics on the basis of the results emanating from 4,750 centres situated in 571 cities. Pursuant to the directions of the Court, the Union Government has produced a report of Indian Institute of Technology,6 Madras.