It was not brought to the notice of this Court by any party that the said policy had been cancelled and had been substituted by another policy in the year 2014. What was the effect of 856 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports cancellation of the policy dated 09.07.1992 was not brought to the notice of this Court either by the writ petitioner or by the State of Gujarat. (xiv) In Sangeet & Another vs. State of Haryana, (2013) 2 SCC 452, this Court speaking through Lokur, J., observed that a convict undergoing a sentence does not have right to get a remission of sentence but he certainly does have a right to have his case considered for the grant of remission. The term of sentence spanning the life of the convict can be curtailed by the appropriate Government for good and valid reasons in exercise of its powers under Section 432 of the CrPC. The said Section provides for some procedural and substantive checks on the arbitrary exercise of this power. While observing that there is no decision of this Court detailing the procedure to be followed for the exercise of power under Section 432 of the CrPC, it was stated that sub-section (2) to sub-section (5) of Section 432 of the CrPC lay down the basic procedure, which is making of an application to the appropriate Government for the suspension or remission of a sentence, either by the convict or someone on his behalf. Thus, the representation has to be made to the appropriate Government in terms of the provisions under Section 432 of the CrPC. It was further observed that the exercise of power by the appropriate Government under sub-section (1) of Section 432 of the CrPC cannot be suo motu for the simple reason that this sub-section is only an enabling provision. In other words, the appropriate Government is enabled to “override” a judicially pronounced sentence, subject to fulfillment of certain conditions. Those conditions are found either in the jail manual or in statutory rules. Therefore, sub-section (1) of Section 432 of the CrPC cannot be read to enable the appropriate Government to “further override” the judicial pronouncement over and above what is permitted by the jail manual or the statutory rules. On such an application being made, the appropriate Government is required to approach the Presiding Judge of the Court before or by which the conviction was made or confirmed to opine (with reasons) whether the application should be granted or [2024] 1 S.C.R. 857 Bilkis Yakub Rasool v. Union of India & Others refused. Thereafter, the appropriate Government may take a decision on the remission application and pass s granting remission subject to some conditions, or refusing remission. There has to be an application of mind to the issue of grant of remission and the power of remission cannot be exercised arbitrarily. It was further observed that a convict undergoing life imprisonment is expected to remain in custody till the end of his life, subject to any remission granted by the appropriate Government under Section 432 of the CrPC which in turn is subject to the procedural checks in that Section and the substantive check in Section 433-Aof the CrPC.