However, there can be no straitjacket formula which enumerates that every case concerning the consideration of bail should depend upon the filing of a chargesheet. In fact, each case ought to be assessed on its own merits, recognizing that no one-size fits all formula exists for determining bail. 44. An undertrial thus should, ordinarily, first approach the Trial Court for bail, as this process not only provides the accused an opportunity for initial relief but also allows the High Court to serve as a secondary avenue if the Trial Court denies bail for inadequate reasons. This approach is beneficial for both the accused and the prosecution; if bail is granted without proper consideration, the prosecution too can seek corrective measures from the High Court. 45. However, superior courts should adhere to this procedural recourse from the outset. If an accused approaches the High Court directly without first seeking relief from the Trial Court, it is generally appropriate for the High Court to redirect them to the Trial Court at the threshold. Nevertheless, if there are significant delays following notice, it may not be prudent to relegate the matter to the Trial Court at a later stage. Bail being closely tied to personal liberty, such claims should be adjudicated promptly on their merits, rather than oscillating between courts on mere procedural technicalities. 46. This issue is however, more or less academic in the instant case as the High Court did not relegate the Appellant to the Trial Court at the preliminary stage. Since notice was issued and the parties were apparently heard on merits by the High Court, we do not deem it necessary at this stage to relegate the Appellant to the Trial Court even though filing of a chargesheet is a change in the circumstances. [2024] 9 S.C.R. 707 Arvind Kejriwal v. Central Bureau of Investigation conclusion: 47. We, thus, deem it appropriate to pass the following : i. The Criminal Appeal challenging the legality of arrest (arising out of SLP (Crl.) No. 10991/2024) is, hereby, dismissed. ii. The Criminal Appeal (arising out of SLP (Crl.) No. 11023/2024) is allowed and the impugned judgement of the High Court dated 05.08.2024, to that extent is set aside. Consequently, a. the Appellant is directed to be released on bail in connection with FIR No. RC0032022A0053/2022 registered by the CBI at PS CBI, ACB, upon furnishing bail bonds for a sum of Rs. 10,00,000 /- with two sureties of such like amount, to the satisfaction of the Trial Court; b. the Appellant shall not make any public comments on the merits of the CBI case, it being sub judice before the Trial Court. This condition is necessitated to dissuade a recent tendency of building a self-serving narrative on public platforms; c. however, this shall not preclude the Appellant from raising all his contentions before the Trial Court; d. the terms and conditions imposed by a coordinate bench of this Court vide s dated 10.05.2024 and 12.07.2024 passed in Criminal Appeal No. 2493/2024, titled Arvind Kejriwal v. Directorate of Enforcement, are imposed mutatis mutandis in the present case; e. the Appellant shall remain present before the Trial Court on each and every date of hearing, unless granted exemption; and f. the Appellant shall fully cooperate with the Trial Court for expeditious conclusion of the trial proceedings.