The learned Judge observed: “144. The original section read: “It shall come into force on 1-10-1947 & shall remain in operation for a period of one year.’ 145. The underlined (here italicised) words alone were amended. If the amendment is unconstitutional we must leave it completely out. We cannot use the intention underlying that amendment to take the place of enactment. We cannot read the legislative act of the Governor as involving a repeal & a reenactment & give effect to the repeal though not the enactment. To do so would leave the original section truncated, & besides, there is no authority to give effect to a mere legislative intent or purpose… […] 146. … When the amendment comes later & is unconstitutional it has no effect whatever.” (emphasis supplied) The judgement in Laxmibai outlines a different approach to analysing the legal effect of a judicial decision invalidating an amendment. Justice Hidayatullah found that where an amendment is invalid, the legal effect of the amendment is nullified in its entirety. The learned 53 Ibid [142] (Hidayatullah J); [157] (Mangalmurti J). 72 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Judge relied on several decisions of the US Supreme Court, most notably, Frost v Corporation Commissioner54 where Justice Sutherland held: “Here it was conceded that the statute, before the amendment, was entirely valid. When passed, it expressed the will of the Legislature which enacted it. Without an express repeal, a different Legislature undertook to create an exception, but, since that body sought to express its will by an amendment which, being unconstitutional, is a nullity and therefore, powerless to work any change in the existing statute, that statute must stand as the only valid expression of the legislative intent.” According to Frost and Laxmibai, where an amendment is invalidated both the amendment’s omission of old words and its insertion of new words have no legal effect. Justice Hidayatullah noted that giving effect to the legislative intent of repeal while simultaneously striking down the new enactment could lead to a truncated statutory provision rendering the law unworkable. The effect of the judgement may be to inadvertently invalidate two provisions, both the new and the old, despite there being no constitutional fault with the old. This observation is directly applicable to the case before us because if the unamended Article 31-C does not revive after the decision in Minerva Mills, Article 31-C would be truncated and unworkable despite the validity of the Article being upheld by thirteen Judges in Kesavananda Bharati. In terms of precedential value, Justice Hidayatullah’s observations are admittedly also obiter dictum given that the High Court had upheld the Ordinance. However, these observations were subsequently relied on by the High Court of Nagpur in Shriram Gulabdas v Board of Revenue, Madhya Pradesh55 and in the decisions of this Court that we shall now advert to. 56. In Mulchand Odhavji v Rajkot Borough Municipality56 a Constitution Bench of this Court invalidated the Municipality of Rajkot’s levy of octroi duty. The case originated from the United States of Saurashtra where the Saurashtra Terminal Tax and Octroi Ordinance of 1949 54 278 U.S. 505.