[2024] 8 S.C.R. 733 : 2024 INSC 677 State Project Director, UP Education for All Project Board & Ors. v. Saroj Maurya & Ors. (Civil Appeal No. 3465 of 2023) 21 August 2024 [Hima Kohli and Sandeep Mehta, JJ.] Issue for Consideration Matter pertains to the sustainability of the passed by the Division Bench of the High Court, upholding the passed by the Single Judge and the conclusions arrived at, without furnishing any reasons therefor. Headnotes† / – Reasoned – Requirement of – Division Bench of the High Court while upholding the passed by the Single Judge of the High Court, concluded with an observation that it is in agreement with the approach and view of the Single Judge without furnishing any reasons therefor – Sustainability: Held: Concept of reasoned has become an indispensable part of basic rule of law and, in fact, is a mandatory requirement of the procedural law – Clarity of thoughts leads to clarity of vision and proper reasoning is the foundation of a just and fair decision – Reasons are the real live links to the administration of justice – There is a rationale, logic and purpose behind a reasoned – Reasoned is primarily written to clarify own thoughts; communicate the reasons for the decision to the concerned and to provide and ensure that such reasons can be appropriately considered by the appellate/higher court – Absence of reasons thus would lead to frustrate the very object – On facts, in the absence of any reasoning in the impugned , the same cannot be sustained – Matter remanded back to the Division Bench for the parties to appear and address arguments afresh – Impugned quashed and set aside. [Paras 3-5] Case Law Cited CCT v. Shukla & Bros. [2010] 4 SCR 627 : (2010) 4 SCC 785 – relied on. 734 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports List of Keywords Reasoned ; Judge-made law; Concept of reasoned ; Rule of law; Procedural law; Clarity of thoughts; Just and fair decision; Administration of justice; Absence of reasons. Case Arising From CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 3465 of 2023 From the and dated 18.04.2022 of the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad in SPLA No. 222 of 2022 Appearances for Parties Ms. Garima Prashad, Sr. A.A.G., Krishnanand Pandeya, Divyanshu Sahay, Yash Kirti Kumar Bharti, Advs. for the Appellants. Sanjoy Ghose, P.S. Patwalia, Sr. Advs., Ms. Mayuri Raghuvanshi, Vyom Raghuvanshi, Ms. Akanksha Rathore, Mohnish Nirwan, Ashok Kumar, Abhishek Pratap Singh, Sahil Baraik, Yash Tewari, Shashank Rai, Jacob Benny, Piyush Singh, Umesh Dubey, Dushyant Parashar, R.K. Singh, Mrs. Neeraj Singh, Tom Joseph, R. Krishnaraj, Kumar Gaurav, Arjun Singh, Ramandeep Singh, Advs. for the Respondents. / of the Supreme Court 1. The appellant-State of Uttar Pradesh has assailed the and dated 18th April, 2022 passed by the Division Bench of the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad in an intra court appeal1 directed against the common and dated 21st December, 2021 passed by the learned Single Judge in a batch of writ petitions.