v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons 18.7 Thus, when the State of Kerala intended to amend the State Act in 2002, it was bound to keep in mind the fact that there is already a Central law on the same subject made by Parliament in 1982, though not in force in Kerala, whereunder there is a pro tanto repeal of the State Act. Therefore, the State Legislature ought to have followed the procedure in Article 254(2) and ought to have obtained the assent of the President. 18.8 Ultimately, in paragraph 78, issue was summed up as under: “78. To sum up, Articles 246(1), (2) and 254(1) provide that to the extent to which a State law is in conflict with or repugnant to the Central law, which Parliament is competent to make, the Central law shall prevail and the State law shall be void to the extent of its repugnancy. This general rule of repugnancy is subject to Article 254(2) which inter alia provides that if a law made by a State Legislature in respect of matters in the Concurrent List is reserved for consideration by the President and receives his/her assent, then the State law shall prevail in that State over an existing law or a law made by Parliament, notwithstanding its repugnancy.” 19. Further, reference could also be made to the Food Safety and Standards Act, 2006 (“FSSA, 2006”) which has been enacted pursuant to Entry 52 – List I where the Parliament by a declaration made under Section 2 of the said Act has declared that it is expedient in the public interest that the Union should take under its control the food industry. Consequently, clause (b) of Entry 33 – List III which speaks of food stuffs, including edible oils seeds, and oils would be impacted on account of the FSSA, 2006 and the declaration made therein pursuant to Entry 52 – List I to the extent of the control under the said Act. 20. The reason for the aforesaid view would have to be also considered from the point of view of the fact that when an “industry” is taken control of by the Union by specifying it in the First Schedule of the IDRA, it becomes a scheduled industry and to the extent of control envisaged as per the Schedule and as per the provisions of IDRA. It is only those industries which are critical and of vital significance to the Indian economy which are taken control of by the Union and one such industry is “Fermentation Industries”, which inter alia comprises 2164 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of “industrial alcohol” both as a product and as a raw material for other industries. 21. Conversely, if any industry is not a scheduled industry and does not come within the scope and ambit of First Schedule of the IDRA, in such an event, not only Entry 24 - List II but also Entries 26 and 27 - List II would fully operate.