As to whether a case would amount to threat to the public or as to whether it would be such which can be dealt with by the ordinary machinery in exercise of its powers of maintaining law and would depend upon the facts and circumstances of each case. For example, if somebody commits a brutal murder within the four corners of a house, it will not be amounting to a threat to the public . As against this, if a person in a public space where a number of [2024] 12 S.C.R. 645 Arjun S/o Ratan Gaikwad v. The State of Maharashtra and Others people are present creates a ruckus by his behaviour and continues with such activities, in a manner to create a terror in the minds of the public at large, it would amount to a threat to public . Though, in a given case there may not be even a physical attack. 16. In the present case, all the six cases are with regard to selling of illicit liquor. Though six cases are registered, the Excise Authority did not find it necessary to arrest the appellant even on a single occasion. It would have been a different matter, had the appellant been arrested, thereafter released on bail and then again the appellant continued with his activities. However, that is not the case here. 17. Insofar as statements of the two unnamed witnesses are concerned, the allegations are as vague as it could be. In any case the statements which were stereotype even if taken on its face value would show that the threat given to the said witnesses is between the appellant and the said witnesses. The statements also do not show that the said witnesses were threatened by the appellant in the presence of the villagers which would create a perception in the mind of the villagers that the appellant herein is a threat to the public . 18. In that view of the matter, we do not find that the subjective satisfaction of the detaining authority that the activities of the appellant were prejudicial to the maintenance of public is substantiated. 19. The appeal deserves to be allowed on this short ground. 20. The impugned and passed by the High Court dated 20th August 2024 so also the of detention dated 5th March 2024 passed by the detaining authority and the of confirmation dated 8th May 2024 are quashed and set aside and the appeal is, accordingly, allowed. 21. The appellant is directed to be released forthwith, if his detention is not required in any other case. 22. Pending application(s), if any, shall stand disposed of. Result of the case: Appeal allowed. †Headnotes prepared by: Divya Pandey