In our opinion, however, even in absence of statutory provision, such an action can always be taken on the basis of administrative instructions—for the purpose of “elimination” and “shortlisting” of huge number of candidates provided the action is otherwise bona fide and reasonable.” 39 [2008] 15 SCR 194 : (2009) 1 SCC 768 64 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 36. Another example is in respect of fixing different cutoffs for different subjects having regard to the relative importance of the subjects and their degree of relevance.40 These instances make it clear that this Court has been lenient in letting recruiting bodies devise an appropriate procedure for successfully concluding the recruitment process provided the procedure adopted has been transparent, non-discriminatory/ non-arbitrary and having a rational nexus to the object sought to be achieved. (E) PROCEDURE PRESCRIBED IN THE EXTANT RULE NOT TO BE VIOLATED 37. In Sivanandan C.T. (supra) the issue before the Constitution Bench was whether for selection minimum marks could be prescribed contrary to the extant rules and the advertisement. Answering in the negative, the Constitution Bench, speaking through one of us (Dr. D.Y. Chandrachud, CJ), held: "15. The Administrative Committee of the High Court decided to impose a cut off for the viva-voce examination actuated by the bona fide reason of ensuring that candidates with requisite personality assume judicial office. However laudable that approach of the Administrative Committee may have been, such a change would be required to be brought in by a substantive amendment to the rules which came in much later as noticed above. This is not a case where the rules of the scheme of the High Court were silent. Where the statutory rules are silent, they can be supplemented in a manner consistent with the object and spirit of the Rules by an administrative . 16. In the present case, the statutory rules expressly provided that the select list would be drawn up on the basis of the aggregate marks obtained in the written examination and the viva-voce. This was further elaborated in the scheme of examination which prescribed that there would be no cut off marks for the viva-voce. This position is also reflected in the notification of the High Court dated 30 September 2015. In this backdrop we have come to 40 Banking Service Recruitment Board, Madras v. V. Ramalingam (1998) 8 SCC 523 [2024] 12 S.C.R. 65 Tej Prakash Pathak & Ors. v. Rajasthan High Court & Ors. the conclusion that the decision of the High Court suffered from its being ultra vires the 1961 Rules besides being manifestly arbitrary." 38. Following Sivanandan CT (supra), a three-Judge Bench of this Court in Salam Samarjeet Singh v. The High Court of Manipur at Imphal & Anr41 held: "31. … Prescribing minimum marks for viva-voce segment may be justified for the holistic assessment of a candidate, but in the present case such a requirement was introduced only after commencement of the recruitment process and in violation of the statutory rules. The decision of the Full Court to depart from the expected exercise of preparing the merit list as per the unamended rules is clearly violative of the substantive legitimate expectation of the petitioner.