52. Hon’ble Surya Kant, J. has, however, identified the indicia as follows: I. Article 30(1) provides for a twin fold test – establishment and administration. II. Establishment is to be understood as coming into existence of the institution, which is to be holistically gauged from examination of factors, inter alia, who is responsible for the genesis of the idea, accumulation of funds, framing of charter documents of the educational institution, procuring of government approvals. In such acts, the minority community must play a decisive role. III. Incorporation of a university under a statute would not necessarily mean that the institution is a creature of statute, unless it is the Government which has played the decisive role in ideation, funding, implementation and operationalising the institution. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1881 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. IV. Establishment has to be for the benefit of the minority community. V. Administration, at its core, has to vest with the minority community. This would include within its fold long term administrative roles and day to day sundry decisions. The minority community should thus be vested with both, de jure and de facto control. 53. Hon’ble Satish Chandra Sharma, J. has in His Lordship’s draft opinion laid out a threefold indicia: I. The minority community must play a predominant role, almost to the point of exclusion of all other forces, in tangibly bringing about the entirety of the institution into existence. II. The purpose of the institution must be to predominantly serve the interests of the minority community, irrespective of the form of education provided. III. The actual functional, executive, and policy administration should rest with the minority community. The real decision making authority of the institution should be the minority community. 54. While the majority opinion seems to have identified establishment as the sole indicium, Hon’ble Surya Kant and Hon’ble Satish Chandra Sharma, JJ. have laid equal stress on administration apart from establishment as the indicia. Inasmuch as the broad criteria which can be used to assess the status of an educational institution is concerned, I express my agreement with the indicia laid out by Their Lordships. 55. Taking a cue from the above indicia, what comes to mind is that a seed, by itself, cannot germinate into a plant without being sown in the soil. It is the farmer’s endeavours of watering, nourishing and caring for the seed, not the sheer existence of the seed itself, which results in the emergence of the tree. Similarly, mere ideation by itself amounts to little if it is not backed by action or implementation. Ideation and conceiving of an idea are mere seeds, while the work of gathering resources, acquiring land, establishing an administrative structure, recruiting teachers, and admitting students are akin to the planting and nurturing required for those seeds to grow into a flourishing tree. Educational institutions, like all other institutions, are an outcome of the coalescence of resources, actions, and meticulous planning by the people “establishing” it. 1882 [2024] 11 S.C.R.