The said provisions read as under: “498A. Husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty. — Whoever, being the husband or the relative of the husband of a woman, subjects such woman to cruelty shall be punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years and shall also be liable to fine. Explanation.—For the purposes of this section, “cruelty” means— (a) any wilful conduct which is of such a nature as is likely to drive the woman to commit suicide or to cause grave injury or danger to life, limb or health (whether mental or physical) of the woman; or (b) harassment of the woman where such harassment is with a view to coercing her or any person related to her to meet any unlawful demand for any property or valuable security or is on account of failure by her or any person related to her to meet such demand. 306. Abetment of suicide. —If any person commits suicide, whoever abets the commission of such suicide, 2 [2024] 2 SCR 830 : (2024) 3 SCC 573 [2024] 10 S.C.R. 59 Parveen Kumar v. The State of Himachal Pradesh shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine. 113A. Presumption as to abetment of suicide by a married woman. ––When the question is whether the commission of suicide by a woman had been abetted by her husband or any relative of her husband and it is shown that she had committed suicide within a period of seven years from the date of her marriage and that her husband or such relative of her husband had subjected her to cruelty, the court may presume, having regard to all the other circumstances of the case, that such suicide had been abetted by her husband or by such relative of her husband. Explanation. –– For the purposes of this section, “cruelty” shall have the same meaning as in section 498A of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860).” 8. From the explanation to Section 498-A IPC, it is discernible that the word ‘Cruelty’ means, (i) any wilful conduct which is of such a nature as is likely to drive the woman to commit suicide (ii) any wilful conduct which is of such a nature as is likely to cause grave injury or danger to life, limb or health (whether mental or physical) of the woman; or (iii) harassment of the woman with a view to coercing her or any person related to her to meet any unlawful demand for any property or valuable security or is on account of failure by her or any person related to her to meet such demand. So far as the instant case is concerned, as per the case of the prosecution the appellant had subjected the deceased to Cruelty i.e. had committed wilful conduct which was of such a nature, that drove her to commit suicide.