As discussed above, along with letter dated 23rd February 2006 of the sellers cancelling the Agreement, they returned the advance amount received from the buyer vide demand draft dated 11th February 2006. This draft was retained by the buyer and returned as late as 10th August, 2006 vide letter of even date (and not along with any of her previous letters). However, the demand draft dated 11th February, 2006 being valid only for a period of 6 (six) months, i.e., 10th August 2006, it has intrigued us as to why the buyer would hold on to the demand draft and not return it earlier if she was genuinely interested in purchasing the property. 38. Such conduct of the buyer, seen cumulatively, does not inspire confidence in granting her the discretionary relief of specific performance. 39. The question posed for an answer is, thus, decided against the buyer. 40. Having held thus, allowing the appeal is the inevitable result. However, before we part, there seems to be a discordant note struck by the decision in A. Kanthamani (supra) while distinguishing I.S. Sikandar (supra), which could create uncertainty and confusion. It is, therefore, considered worthwhile to attempt and clear the same. 41. A comprehensive reading of the two decisions reveals that in a fact scenario where the vendor unliterally cancels an agreement for sale, the vendee who is seeking specific performance of such agreement ought to seek declaratory relief to the effect that the cancellation is bad and not binding on the vendee. This is because an agreement, which has been cancelled, would be rendered non-existent in the eyes of law and such a non-existent agreement could not possibly be enforced before a court of law. Both the decisions cited above are unanimous in their approval of such legal principle. However, [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1127 R. Kandasamy (Since Dead) & Ors. v. T.R.K. Sarawathy & Anr. as clarified in Kanthamani (supra), it is imperative that an issue be framed with respect to maintainability of the suit on such ground, before the court of first instance, as it is only when a finding on the issue of maintainability is rendered by trial court that the same can be examined by the first or/and second appellate court. In other words, if maintainability were not an issue before the trial court or the appellate court, a suit cannot be dismissed as not maintainable. This is what Kanthamani (supra) holds. 42. The aforesaid two views of this Court, expressed by coordinate benches, demand deference. However, it is noticed that this Court in Kanthamani (supra) had not been addressed on the effect of non-existence of a jurisdictional fact (the existence whereof would clothe the trial court with jurisdiction to try a suit and consider granting relief), i.e., what would be its effect on the right to relief claimed by the plaintiff in a suit for specific performance of contract. 43. In Shrisht Dhawan (Smt) v. Shaw Bros.,28 an interesting discussion on ‘jurisdictional fact’ is found in the concurring opinion of Hon’ble R. M. Sahai, J.