40 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 3. Shri Hariharan submits that the present case basically rests on the three dying declarations and the DNA report. He submits that the dying declarations are inconsistent. He further submits that as the time progressed there were improvements in the dying declaration. He therefore submits that in the present case the truthfulness of the dying declarations itself is doubtful and therefore the conviction could not be based on the said dying declarations. He further submits that the DNA report also points out towards the presence of a third person. In such an eventuality, the learned Senior Counsel submits that the of conviction could not be sustained. 4. Shri Hariharan, in the alternative, submits that the present case is not a ‘rarest of the rare’ case, which would justify awarding death penalty. He further submits that, in the present case, the convicting the appellant and imposing death penalty were done simultaneously. He submits that the learned Trial Judge also does not consider the balance between the mitigating circumstances and aggravating circumstances while awarding the death penalty. Learned Senior Counsel therefore submits that in the event this Court is not inclined to interfere with the finding of the conviction, in the facts and circumstances of this case and particularly taking into consideration the fact that the appellant lost his mother and brother at a tender age, the socio-economic background of the appellant and the age of the appellant at the time of commission of crime so also his conduct and behaviour in the prison entitle him for commutation of sentence. 5. Shri Bhupendra Pratap Singh, learned Deputy Advocate General (DAG), on the contrary, submits that the learned Trial Judge as well as the High Court, upon appreciation of the evidence, have correctly come to a finding that the present appellant is guilty for the offences committed. He therefore submits that no interference is warranted in the present appeals. 6. Insofar as the prayer made by the learned Senior Counsel for the appellant regarding commutation is concerned, the learned DAG for the respondent-State relies on the following s of this Court in the cases of Shivu and Another v. Registrar General, High Court of Karnataka and Another,1 Purushottam Dashrath 1 [2007] 2 SCR 555 : (2007) 4 SCC 713 : 2007 INSC 136 [2024] 10 S.C.R. 41 Rabbu @ Sarvesh v. The State of Madhya Pradesh Borate and Another v. State of Maharashtra,2 and Deepak Rai v. State of Bihar,3 in to contend that merely the age of the appellant cannot be taken into consideration. He further submits that the appellant taking advantage of the circumstances that the deceased was alone in the house has committed the heinous crime and therefore the present case would squarely fit in the category of ‘rarest of the rare’ cases. He submits that the psychological report would also show that there is no remorse expressed by the appellant. He therefore submits that taking into consideration all these aspects, the death penalty needs to be confirmed.