25 at Page 69) defines ‘custody’ as follows: “When it is applied to persons, it implies restraint and may or may not imply physical force sufficient to restrain depending on the circumstances and with reference to persons charged with crime, it has been defined as meaning on actual confinement or the present means of enforcing it, the detention of the person contrary to his will. Applied to things, it means to have a charge or safe-keeping, and connotes control and includes as well, although it does not require, the element of physical or manual possession, implying a temporary physical control merely and responsibility for the protection and preservation of the thing in custody. So used, the word does not connote dominion or supremacy of authority. The said term has been defined as meaning the keeping, guarding, care, watch, inspection, preservation or security 302 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of a thing, and carries with it the idea of the thing being within the immediate personal care and control of the prisoner to whose custody it is subjected; charge; charge to keep, subject to or direction; immediate charge and control and not the final absolute control of ownership.” [See: Roshan Beevi and others v. Joint Secretary to Government of Tamil Nadu and others, 1983 SCC OnLine Mad 163] 49. The Rajasthan High Court proceeded on the assumption that there can be no arrest while a person is in judicial custody because it is not possible for the police officer to arrest him without actual touch or confinement while such person is under custody. However, we are unable to agree with the view taken by the High Court for the reason that a lawful arrest can be made even without actually seizing or touching the body. Actions or words which successfully bring to the notice of the accused that he is under a compulsion and thereafter cause him to submit to such compulsion will also be sufficient to constitute arrest. This Court in State of U.P. v. Deoman Upadhyaya reported in AIR 1960 SC 1125 held that submission to the custody by word or action by a person is sufficient so as to constitute arrest under Section 46 of the CrPC. 50. In the aforesaid context, we may also refer to and rely upon the decision of the Queen’s Bench in Alderson v. Booth reported in [1969] 2 All ER 271. The relevant observations are as under: “There are a number of cases, both ancient and modern, as to what constitutes an arrest, and whereas there was a time when it was held that there could be no lawful arrest unless there was an actual seizing or touching, it is quite clear that is no longer the law. There may be an arrest by mere words, by saying “I arrest you” without any touching, provided of course that the accused submits and goes with the police officer. Equally it is clear, as it seems to me, that an arrest is constituted when any form of words in used which, in the circumstances, of the case, were calculated to bring to the accused’s notice, and did bring to the accused’s notice, that he was under compulsion and thereafter he submitted to that compulsion.” (Emphasis supplied) [2024] 9 S.C.R.