Advs., Sanjay Kapur, Ms. Divya Singh Pundir, Devesh Dubey, Ms. Mahima Kapur, Ms. Mansi Kapur, Mrs. Shubhra Kapur, Arjun Bhatia, Surya Prakash, Ms. Isha Virmani, Prashant Bhushan, Ms. Neha Rathi, Pranav Sachdeva, Ms. Kajal Giri, Ms. Shivani Kapoor, Kamal Kishore, Shadan Farasat, Harshit Anand, Abhishek Babbar, Ms. Hrishika Jain, Ms. Natasha Maheshwari, Ms. Mreganka Kukreja, Aman Naqvi, Ms. Seema Bengani, Shyam Gopal, Ms. Shradha Deshmukh, Chinmayee Chandra, Kanu Agrawal, Rajat Nair, Raman Yadav, Chitvan Singhal, Abhishek Kr. Pandey, Kartikay Aggarwal, Kukesh Kr. Singh, Ameyakirama Thanvi, Advs. for the appearing parties. / of the Supreme Court 1. By a dated 15 February 20241, this Court declared the Electoral Bond Scheme and the provisions of the Finance Act 2017 which amended the provisions of the Representation of People Act 1951 and the Income Tax Act 1961, unconstitutional on the ground that the non-disclosure of information regarding the funding of political parties is violative of the right to information of citizens 1 2024 INSC 113 [2024] 3 S.C.R. 641 State Bank of India v. Association for Democratic Reforms and Others under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution. The amendments which were introduced by the Finance Act 2017 to the provisions of the Companies Act 2013, permitting unlimited funding of political parties by corporate entities were held to be arbitrary and violative of Article 14 of the Constitution. 2. In to give full effect to the which was rendered by the Constitution Bench, this Court directed the State Bank of India2, which was the authorized Bank to deal with Electoral Bonds under the Electoral Bond Scheme to submit details of the Electoral Bonds purchased by the contributors and redeemed by political parties between 12 April 2019 (the date on which an interim was passed by this Court directing the Election Commission of India3 to collect details of the contributions) till 15 February 2024 (the date of the ). 3. This Court directed the SBI to submit the following details by 6 March 2024 to the ECI: (a) Details of each Electoral Bond purchased including the date of purchase, the name of the purchaser and the denomination of the Electoral Bond; and (b) Details of each Electoral Bond redeemed by political parties including the date of encashment and the denomination of the Electoral Bond. 4. The ECI was directed to collate the information to be submitted by the SBI and publish it on its website by 13 March 2024. The directions of this Court are extracted below: “219. In view of our discussion above, the following directions are issued: a. The issuing bank shall herewith stop the issuance of Electoral Bonds; b. SBI shall submit details of the Electoral Bonds purchased since the Interim of this Court dated 12 April 2019 till date to the ECI. The details shall include the date of 2 “SBI” 3 “ECI” 642 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports purchase of each Electoral Bond, the name of the purchaser of the bond and the denomination of the Electoral Bond purchased; c. SBI shall submit the details of political parties which have received contributions through Electoral Bonds since the interim of this Court dated 12 April 2019 till date to the ECI.