[Explanation II. - For the purpose of this section, Law’ includes any award, agreement, settlement, instrument or contract of service whether made before or after the commencement of this Act. ]” (Emphasis supplied) 17. The core issue here is the application of the Act to the Corporation qua the employees and their Union. In to examine the same, what is to be considered is as to whether the Corporation can be termed as an industrial establishment as per the provisions reproduced supra and whether the members of the Union would qualify as workmen and therefore would be eligible for permanent status under Section 3 of the Act. 18. The High Court considered this question in line with Section 2(3) (e), as above, i.e., the definition of ‘establishment’ provided under section 2(6) of the 1947 Act. It reads thus – “2. Definitions- In this Act, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context- x x x x (6) ‘establishment’ means a shop. commercial establishment, restaurant, eating-house, residential hotel, theatre or any place of public amusement or entertainment and includes such establishment as the 1 [State] Government may by [2024] 5 S.C.R. 607 Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation Limited v. Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation Employees Welfare Union & Anr. notification declare to be an establishment for the purposes of this Act;” 19. For an establishment to be covered under the definition thereof under the 1947 Act, unless it is one of those specifically mentioned, it must satisfy being a commercial establishment which is defined under Section 2(3) which is as under - “(3) ‘commercial establishment´ means an establishment which is not a shop but which carries on the business of advertising, commission, forwarding or commercial agency, or which is a clerical department of a factory or industrial undertaking or which is an insurance company, joint stock company, bank, broker’s office or exchange and includes such other establishments as the State Government may by notification declare to be a commercial establishment for the purposes of this Act.” 20. The affidavit dated 16th September, 2009 filed by the Corporation before the High Court records that the actual turnover for the year 2007-2008 is Rs.27.5 crores, vis-à-vis, the value of drugs distributed being at Rs.186.60 crores. The of the Inspector of Labour records as under - “Further the respondent advanced the arguments that the Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation is not functioning with any profit motive, that quality argues are being obtained from quality manufacturing and supplied the same to the consumers without obtaining any service charges and therefore, the respondent’s establishment is not attending to any commercial duty and while perusing all the aforesaid factors and also the audited balance sheets of the respondents filed on behalf of the petitioner i.e. for the years 1994-95, 1995-96 and 1996-97 it is seen that for the year 1994-95 the profit to the tune of Rs.6.96 lakhs and for 1995-96 Rs.8.44 lakhs and for 1996-97 Rs.1.84 lakhs had been obtained. Therefore it is clearly seen that the respondent’s establishment has no profit intention as mentioned by the respondent is not at all true.” 21.