340. In Halsbury’s Laws of England (4th Edn. ), Vol. 26 at pp. 297-98, para 578, it is stated: “A decision is given per incuriam when the court has acted in ignorance of a previous decision of its own or of a court of coordinate jurisdiction which covered the case before it, in which case it must decide which case to follow.” 19. We have already discussed about the importance of ensuring judicial discipline and the same has also been upheld by various judgement of this Court. In Central Board of Dawoodi Bohra Community & Anr. vs. State of Maharashtra & Anr.3, this Court has summed up the legal position of rules of judicial discipline as follows: “12. *** (1) The law laid down by this Court in a decision delivered by a Bench of larger strength is binding on any subsequent Bench of lesser or coequal strength. (2) A Bench of lesser quorum cannot disagree or dissent from the view of the law taken by a Bench of larger quorum. In case of doubt all that the Bench of lesser quorum can do is to invite the attention of the Chief Justice and request for the matter being placed for hearing before a Bench of larger quorum than the 2 (2004) 11 SCC 26 3 (2005) 2 SCC 673 [2024] 1 S.C.R. 19 MARY PUSHPAM v. TELVI CURUSUMARY & ORS. Bench whose decision has come up for consideration. It will be open only for a Bench of coequal strength to express an opinion doubting the correctness of the view taken by the earlier Bench of coequal strength, whereupon the matter may be placed for hearing before a Bench consisting of a quorum larger than the one which pronounced the decision laying down the law the correctness of which is doubted.” 20. In the current case, as previously mentioned, the High Court’s from the initial round dated 30.03.1990, noted that the disputed property included 8 cents of land, not just the building structure on it. As per the Doctrine of Merger, the s of the Trial Court and the First Appellate Court from the first round of litigation are absorbed into the High Court’s dated 30.03.1990. This 1990 should be regarded as the conclusive and binding from the initial litigation. Following the principles of judicial discipline, lower or subordinate Courts do not have the authority to contradict the decisions of higher Courts. In the current case, the Trial Court and the High Court, in the second round of litigation, violated this judicial discipline by adopting a position contrary to the High Court’s final dated 30.03.1990, from the first round of litigation. 21. The argument of the Counsel for respondents is mainly that the of the Trial Court and First Appellate Court in the first round of litigation clearly stated in the case of the plaintiff that it was with respect to the constructed portion only in which the mother of the appellant was residing and not the whole area of 8 cents purchased by them.