A list of ‘FLC OK’ EVMs is prepared and shared with all the recognised political parties. 26. After check and verification that the EVM is working properly, the control unit of each EVM is sealed with a pink paper seal which is signed by the representatives of the political parties. Thereafter, the plastic cabinet of the EVMs cannot be opened. There is no access to any of the EVM components. Till this stage the VVPAT flash memory is empty and it does not have any data or symbols. 19 It is apposite to note the difference between firmware and software. Firmware is a form of microcode or instructions embedded into hardware devices to help them operate effectively. Firmware size is usually small and ranges in size of a few kilobytes. Software on the other hand, is installed onto a device and used for interaction, such as browsing the internet, computing, word processing and many more complex tasks. Software usually runs on the top of operating systems and are usually large in size between few hundred kilobytes to gigabytes. Software is upgradable or updatable, and its memory is usually accessible and designed for user interactions. The ECI submits that the VVPATs do not have software as they only have firmware. 20 For short, ‘FLC’. [2024] 5 S.C.R. 433 Association For Democratic Reforms v. Election Commission of India And Another 27. 10% of the ‘FLC OK’ EVMs are taken out for training and awareness purpose in the presence of the recognised political parties. The list of the training and awareness units is also shared with the political parties. These training and awareness units are stored separately in a designated warehouse. EVM demonstration centres are set up at the District Election Office, and at the Returning Officer Headquarter/ Revenue Sub-Division Offices. Mobile demonstration vans are also deployed to cover all polling locations. The EVMs used for training and awareness are thereafter not mingled and are taken back to the designated warehouse. 28. To dispel any scenario of bias or prior knowledge, the verified EVMs undergo a two-stage randomization process. It is submitted that not even the manufacturer of the EVMs would be able to know the allotment of a particular machine for a particular state or constituency. The randomization process is conducted without any human intervention by the EVM Management System software application. The first randomization is conducted to allocate the EVMs Assembly constituency/segment-wise. The second randomization is conducted to allocate the machines polling station wise and for the reserve pool. The randomization process is done in the presence of the representatives of the political parties/candidates and the Central Observers deputed by the ECI. The list of EVMs containing serial number as randomly allocated constituency wise and then to a particular polling station are provided to the representatives of the political parties/candidates. 29. It is important to reiterate that till this stage, particulars of the candidates or the political parties are not loaded or stored in the VVPAT. The flash memory of the VVPAT is blank/empty.