This is precisely what happened on 1st March, 2023, while dealing with the petition. 13. There can be no two opinions that if not the appellant, but his counsel certainly did have knowledge of dismissal of the petition by the learned Judge; also, we have no doubt that the appellant feigned complete ignorance and deliberately did not plead that his counsel was well and truly aware of the outcome of the petition moments after hearing stood concluded before the learned Judge. 14. At the same time, from the proceedings of the court of the learned Judge available on the virtual platform, it is patently clear that His Lordship did not even express that the ‘reasons would follow’ for the dismissal of the petition. Not having so expressed, His Lordship practically rendered the court functus officio. We say so because it is not too clear as to whether any of dismissal was signed by His Lordship on 1st March, 2023, or at any point of time immediately thereafter, although we have noted from the report that the Disposal Log Report of 1st March, 2023 of His Lordship’s court duly recorded that the petition stood disposed of. In Vinod Kumar Singh v. Banaras Hindu University,5 this Court held that when a is pronounced in open court, parties act on the basis that it is the operative and that signing is a mere formality; however, in exceptional circumstances, an pronounced in open court can be amended or even altered before the same has been authenticated by the Judge by signing the but such a course ought to be adopted judicially, sparingly and for adequate reasons and upon putting the parties to notice. Such is not the case here. We are inclined to the view that the learned Judge not having expressed that reasons for the dismissal would follow, His Lordship ceased 5 (1988) 1 SCC 80 2234 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports to retain jurisdiction over the petition and foreclosed assignment of reasons for the dismissal. 15. Assuming that His Lordship were to express that reasons for the dismissal would follow, still there could be no valid reason to write a detailed reasoned after lapse of a year having expressed “dismissed” and upload such on the website. No doubt, as per the good practice prevailing in the High Court, the was communicated to the appellant’s counsel by the IT Cell but that is little consolation in a case of the present nature. 16. Having said thus, and bearing in mind the onerous responsibilities that learned Judges of the high courts across the country have to shoulder on a daily basis, we are persuaded to think that the duty and responsibility of assigning reasons for dismissal of the petition completely escaped the mind of the learned Judge. Perhaps, there is hardly any individual including any Judge who can truly claim to have committed no mistake in his life. It is a feature of human fallibility that people are prone to commit mistakes.