165. In view of the discussion above, we arrive at the following conclusions: … … … (l) At the referral stage, the referral court should leave it for the Arbitral Tribunal to decide whether the non-signatory is bound by the arbitration agreement […]” (Emphasis supplied) 32. As discussed above, the respondents have raised a number of objections against the present petition, however, none of the objections raised question or deny the existence of the arbitration agreement under which the arbitration has been invoked by the petitioner in the present case. Thus, the requirement of prima facie existence of an arbitration agreement, as stipulated under Section 11 of the Act, 1996, is satisfied. 33. Once the arbitral tribunal is constituted, it shall be open for the respondents to raise all the available objections in law, and it is only after (and if) the preliminary objections are considered and rejected by the tribunal that it shall proceed to adjudicate the claims of the petitioner. 34. Further, on the issue of impleadment of respondent no. 2, which is not a signatory to the arbitration agreement, elaborate submissions have been made on both the sides, placing reliance on terms of the agreements, email exchanges, etc. In view of the complexity involved in the determination of the question as to whether the respondent no. 2 is a party to the arbitration agreement or not, we are of the view that it would be appropriate for the arbitral tribunal to take a call on the question after taking into consideration the evidence adduced [2024] 9 S.C.R. 217 Cox & Kings Ltd. v. Sap India Pvt. Ltd. & Anr. before it by the parties and the application of the legal doctrine as elaborated in the decision in Cox and Kings (supra). 35. In view of the aforesaid, the present petition is allowed. We appoint Shri Justice Mohit S. Shah, former Chief Justice of the High Court of Judicature at Bombay to act as the sole arbitrator. The fees of the arbitrator including other modalities shall be fixed in consultation with the parties. 36. It is made clear that all the rights and contentions of the parties are left open for adjudication by the learned arbitrator. 37. Pending application(s), if any, shall stand disposed of. Result of the case: Petition allowed. †Headnotes prepared by: Ankit Gyan