From the materials placed by both the sides, we are satisfied that the ‘paper trail’ is an indispensable 7 See A.C. Jose v. Sivan Pillai and others [1984] 3 SCR 74 : (1984) 2 SCC 656 8 For short, ‘RP Act’. 9 Legal History of EVMs and VVPATs, Edition 1, January 2024, p.654 10 [2013] 14 SCR 565 : (2013) 10 SCC 500 426 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports requirement of free and fair elections. The confidence of the voters in the EVMs can be achieved only with the introduction of the “paper trail”. EVMs with Vvpat system ensure the accuracy of the voting system. With an intent to have fullest transparency in the system and to restore the confidence of the voters, it is necessary to set up EVMs with Vvpat system because vote is nothing but an act of expression which has immense importance in a democratic system. 29. In the light of the above discussion and taking notice of the pragmatic and reasonable approach of ECI and considering the fact that in general elections all over India, ECI has to handle one million (ten lakh) polling booths, we permit ECI to introduce Vvpat in gradual stages or geographical-wise in the ensuing general elections. The area, State or actual booth(s) are to be decided by ECI and ECI is free to implement the same in a phased manner. We appreciate the efforts and good gesture made by ECI in introducing the same. For implementation of such a system (Vvpat) in a phased manner, the Government of India is directed to provide required financial assistance for procurement of units of Vvpat.” Accordingly, to ensure full transparency and confidence of voters, this Court recommended that EVMs be set up with VVPATs. Amendment to the 1961 Rules was notified on 14.08.2013 to introduce the VVPAT mechanism. 9. In N. Chandrababu Naidu and Others v. Union of India and Another,11 the petitioners prayed that 50% randomised VVPAT slip verification be conducted in every General and Bye Elections instead of one EVM per assembly constituency or assembly segment in a parliamentary constituency. This Court held as under: “9. At the very outset the Court would like to observe that neither the satisfaction of the Election Commission nor the system in vogue today, as stated above, is being doubted by the Court insofar as fairness and integrity 11 (2019) 15 SCC 377 [2024] 5 S.C.R. 427 Association For Democratic Reforms v. Election Commission of India And Another is concerned. It is possible and we are certain that the system ensures accurate electoral results. But that is not all. If the number of machines which are subjected to verification of paper trail can be increased to a reasonable number, it would lead to greater satisfaction amongst not only the political parties but the entire electorate of the country. This is what the Court should endeavour and the exercise, therefore, should be to find a viable number of machines that should be subjected to the verification of Vvpat paper trails keeping in mind the infrastructure and the manpower difficulties pointed out by the Deputy Election Commissioner.