60 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports paragraphs 14, 18.1 and 18.2 of the written statement, which introduced new facts, explanatory facts, by way of clarification / amplification of earlier pleading, have been pleaded, which is permissible in law. These include: (a) details of bank accounts; (b) details of tax demands/liability; and (c) ownership of vehicle, which are referred to in the original petition. The replication only seeks to rebut the explanation offered in the written statement in respect of those accounts, demands and the vehicle. Analysis 8. Having taken note of the rival submissions, before we proceed to weigh the rival submissions in respect of the correctness of the impugned , it would be useful to consider the following issue: Whether during the course of the proceeding of an election petition, preferred under the provisions of the 1951 Act, subsequent pleading, as envisaged in VIII Rule 9 CPC, is permissible? If yes, in what circumstances leave to file such subsequent pleading may be granted by an Election Tribunal/ Court? Subsequent Pleading can be filed in an Election Petition. 9. Before we deal with the aforesaid issue, it would be useful to refer to the provisions of the CPC in relation to pleadings. VI Rule 1 of the CPC declares that pleading shall mean a plaint and a written statement. Rule 9 of VIII specifically edicts that no pleading subsequent to the written statement of a defendant other than by way of defence to set off or counter-claim shall be presented except by the leave of the Court. Though, however, the Court may at any time require a written statement or additional written statement. 10. In Anant Construction (P) Ltd. v. Ram Niwas8, High Court of Delhi, in an exhaustive authored by R. C. Lahoti, J, as His Lordship then was, dealt with the terms ‘Replication’ and ‘Rejoinder’, as is commonly used for subsequent pleadings, as also as to when leave for filing subsequent pleading may be granted by the Court. After referring to various legal texts including Corpus Juris Secundum, it was observed: 8 1994 (31) DRJ 205 : 1994 SCC OnLine Del 615 [2024] 6 S.C.R. 61 Sheikh Noorul Hassan v. Nahakpam Indrajit Singh & Ors. “12. A more detailed rather exhaustive statement of law is to be found in CORPUS JURIS SECUNDUM. It would be useful to extract and reproduce the following paragraphs: “A reply or replication is purely a defensive pleading, the office or function of which is to deny, or allege facts in avoidance of, new matters alleged in the plea or answer and thereby join or make issue as to such new matters. (para 184) No reply or replication is necessary where the issues are completed by, and no new matter is set up, in the plea or answer. (para 185 a.) At common law a replication is necessary where a plea introduces new matter and concludes with a verification; but under the codes, practice acts, or rules of civil procedure of a number of states a reply to new defensive matter is not necessary or is necessary only when ed by the court.