The appellants herein are some of the depositors, who purportedly fell victim to the Society. The financial irregularities have been categorized by the prosecution under twenty-three different heads. 4. It is the further case of the prosecution that the respondent no.1 is a co- conspirator and a close friend of the alleged mastermind, Khemchand Meharkure. Respondent No.1 deposited an amount of ₹2,38,39,071/- (Rupees Two Crores Thirty Eight Lakhs Thirty Nine Thousand and Seventy One) with the Society in his name and in the names of his family members. As stated in the chargesheet, the respondent no.1 was paid an amount of ₹9,69,28,500/- (Rupees Nine Crores Sixty Nine Lakhs Twenty Eight Thousand Five Hundred) which was withdrawn from the Society and paid to him as financial assistance, upon the directions of the alleged mastermind, Khemchand Meharkure. It is further alleged that the respondent no.1 purchased five immovable properties for approximately ₹10,00,00,000/- (Rupees Ten Crores) in the name of Khemchand Meharkure. 5. During investigation, respondent no.1 was arrested on 28.04.2021. The High Court vide the Impugned has released him on bail noting that the material on record is not sufficient to establish his complicity. SUBMISSIONS BY THE APPELLANTS: 6. Learned counsel for the appellants submitted that the High Court erred in not appreciating the role of the respondent no.1/accused as stated in the charge-sheet and record of the case. It is submitted that the respondent no.1 and his family members were the ones to whom the amount was given by the Society’s office-bearers. Respondent [2024] 8 S.C.R. 757 Manik Madhukar Sarve & Ors. v. Vitthal Damuji Meher & Ors. No.1 is the one who majorly benefitted from the scam, therefore, the High Court ought not to have released the respondent no.1. 7. It was submitted that as per the charge-sheet, amount worth ₹79,54,26,963/- (Rupees Seventy Nine Crores Fifty Four Lakhs Twenty Six Thousand Nine Hundred and Sixty Three) has been illegally disposed of by the perpetrators of the crime. Such huge amount was siphoned off by indulging in irregularities and illegal activities. Our attention was drawn towards the Forensic Audit Report wherein it has been revealed that the President of the Society colluded with the respondent no.1/accused and relatives of respondent no.1/ accused invested an amount of ₹2,38,39,071/- (Rupees Two Crores Thirty Eight Lakhs Thirty Nine Thousand and Seventy One) against which he was given financial assistance of ₹9,69,28,500/- (Rupees Nine Crores Sixty Nine Lakhs Twenty Eight Thousand and Five Hundred), which amount was not refunded. 8. Learned counsel further pointed out that the impugned did not take into consideration the statements of the Society’s staff recorded during investigation. It was advanced that the High Court ought to have appreciated that the chances of the respondent no.1, as also the other co-accused enlarged on bail, influencing material witnesses such as the Society’s staff etc. cannot be ruled out. Therefore, it was submitted that this was a fit case, where bail granted by the High Court ought to be cancelled by this Court.