The constant flux in the legal position of law undoubtedly created significant challenges for the appellants while [2024] 5 S.C.R. 1257 Delhi Development Authority v. Tejpal & Ors. approaching this Court, none of which we can ignore outrightly. In addition, we would also reiterate at this juncture that we have found no mala fide on part of the appellants or their officers. 56. The impact of not condoning the delay would thus be three-fold, which taken altogether make a compelling case for condonation of delay: one, there will be significant harm to the public at large by way of delayed infrastructure, in addition to financial loss to the public exchequer; second, the comparative benefit to landowners would not be substantial given that no indefeasible rights have been vested with them as the lis has not yet acquired quietus in most cases; and third, the matter would still not attain finality as the State is likely to invoke its power of eminent domain and reinitiate acquisition proceedings given the criticality of the infrastructure being built. We do not feel that these consequences further the ends of limitation law. As discussed earlier in paragraph 13, the law of limitation is intended to curb the evil of deliberate or negligent laxity in legal proceedings, which is not the case here. Hence, the larger interest of justice mandates us to condone the delay in the present batch of cases. The consequential relief, after condonation of delay, is however dealt with in Part E (infra) below. 57. This approach is also seconded by the case of State of Jharkhand v. Lalu Prasad Yadav,47 in which this Court noted that while the Central Bureau of Investigation failed to follow its own manual and filed SLPs with delay, such delay should be condoned in light of the facts of the case and to advance the cause of justice. 58. We note that the respondents have cited Pundlik Jalam Patil (supra) to argue that public interest cannot be a sole ground to seek condonation of delay. A closer examination of the aforementioned case, however, would show that the Court in that case denied condonation of delay as the government had been found to be negligent and given that it had been established that the landowners depended on the acquired lands for their livelihood. As discussed above, that is not the case here, especially in the case of landowners in NCT of Delhi, which is almost entirely urban and whose residents generally do not depend on the agricultural income as the source of their livelihood. 47 [2017] 3 SCR 630 : (2017) 8 SCC 1, para 67-69. 1258 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports D.7. Delay already condoned in some cases 59. While seeking condonation of delay in filing of the present appeals, the appellants have also urged that this Court had already condoned the delay in some of the SLPs and granted leave in such petitions. Against these, the respondents have argued that such condonation was done by ex-parte s. 60.