The family income is below the poverty line. 2. The time frame for the completion of online reporting, including the payment of fees and uploading of documents was till 5 pm on 24 June 2024. The petitioner has stated that his parents arranged the funds required for the payment of fees. The fees were deposited in his brother’s account by 4.45 pm. The petitioner states that he logged into the portal of the first respondent at 4.45 pm and applied in the ‘float category’ of admission and uploaded the documents. The portal closed at 5 pm and his payment was not processed. 3. The petitioner thereafter addressed an email to the first respondent. A response was received on 26 June 2024 from the IIT Bombay Office 152 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports for JEE (Advanced) redirecting the candidate to the organizing IIT, which is IIT Madras. Eventually, these attempts did not bear any fruit. 4. The petitioner approached the Jharkhand High Court Legal Aid Service Committee and he was directed to the Legal Services Committee of the Madras High Court. A writ petition was instituted before the High Court of Madras, but when the case came up for hearing, he was advised to approach this Court. 5. The facts as they have been revealed before this Court indicate that there is no dispute about three critical aspects: (i) the allotment of the seat in Electrical Engineering to the petitioner at IIT Dhanbad; (ii) the Scheduled Caste status of the petitioner; and (iii) the steps which were taken by the petitioner to comply with all formalities pursuant to the allotment to him of a seat for the course. 6. Counsel appearing on behalf of the first respondent has furnished to the Court the log-in details of the petitioner, which indicate that he was diligent in accessing the portal and did everything within his power to secure the realization of his admission. The petitioner logged in on 24 June 2024 between 15.12 hours and 16.57 hours, on as many as six occasions. This evidently indicates that he was making earnest efforts to log into the portal. There is no conceivable reason why the petitioner would not have done so if he had the wherewithal to pay the fees of Rs 17,500. A talented student like the petitioner who belongs to a marginalized group of citizens and has done everything to secure admission should not be left in the lurch. The power of this Court under Article 142 of the Constitution to do substantial justice is meant precisely to cover such a situation. 7. We accordingly and direct that the petitioner should be granted admission to IIT Dhanbad against the seat which was allotted to him in the branch of Electrical Engineering. The petitioner will be admitted to the same batch to which he would have been admitted in pursuance of the of allotment. The petitioner is ready and willing to pay fees of Rs 17,500, which may be paid over personally at the time when admission is granted to him.