Therefore, the writ petition filed by the petitioner in public interest is maintainable. In this regard reliance was placed on S.P. Gupta. 24.2. As regards respondents’ contention that by entertaining the petition under Article 32 of the Constitution the convicts have been denied the right of appeal, it was submitted that there exists no statutory right of appeal against an denying or permitting remission. Such an can only be challenged under Article 226 or Article 32 of the Constitution. Further, a Constitution Bench of this Court in Kochuni observed that, “… the mere existence of an adequate alternative remedy cannot per se be a good and sufficient ground for throwing out a petition under Article 32, if the existence of a fundamental right and a breach, actual or threatened, of such right is alleged and is prima facie established on the petition.” 24.3. As regards the respondents’ submission that a stranger to the criminal proceedings under any circumstance cannot file a petition under Article 32, it was contended that the instant proceedings are not criminal in nature, they fall within the realm of administrative law as they seek to challenge s of remission which are administrative decisions. Learned 824 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports senior counsel brought to our notice the fact that this Court had entertained a petition filed by a DMK leader under Section 406 of the CrPC seeking the transfer of a pending criminal trial against his political opponent, J. Jayalalithaa, from the State of Tamil Nadu to the State of Karnataka vide K. Anbazhagan. 25. Ms. Vrinda Grover, learned counsel for the petitioner in Writ Petition (Crl.) No.352 of 2022, at the outset, submitted that the said petition has been filed in the larger public interest by the petitioners who have vast knowledge and practical expertise on issues of public policy, governance and upholding the rule of law. Their petition challenges not only the arbitrary and mala fide exercise of executive prerogative under Section 432 of the CrPC, but also prays for a shift in practices related to the grant of remission by bringing in more accountability and transparency to the process of grant of remission. Thus, the writ petition is maintainable as a Public Interest Litigation. 25.1. Learned counsel contended that the petition does not constitute an intervention into criminal proceedings but is rather a challenge to arbitrary executive action, which is amenable to judicial review. That it is settled law that the exercise of power under Section 432 of the CrPC is an administrative act which neither retracts from a judicial nor does it wipe out the conviction of the accused and is merely an executive prerogative exercised after the judicial function in a criminal proceeding has come to an end vide Epuru Sudhakar and Ashok Kumar. 25.2. It was further submitted that all the s cited by the respondents-convicts as also the respondent-State to argue that the petitioners have no locus standi in the matter refer to different stages of criminal proceedings, viz.