Conversely, if these are not rooted in the earth, nor imbedded in the earth nor attached to what is so imbedded for the permanent beneficial enjoyment of that to which it is attached, these cannot be immovable properties and can qualify to be movable properties and hence, “goods”. 11.6.1 Since, towers and parts thereof and prefabricated buildings/shelters apparently appear to be fixed on the earth or building, these seem to be immovable properties at the first blush. However, the first appearance may not be decisive to indicate the real character of these items, whether these are immovable or movable properties, as demonstrated by the conflicting views of the two High Courts on this issue. Hence, we need to delve further to arrive at the correct position in law on this issue. 11.7 In to determine whether any property is movable or immovable, this Court, in the light of the statutory provisions has applied certain principles. It has also been noted that 1566 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports such determination may be done not based on a single test but after applying several criteria on the facts of each case. We will now refer to some of the decisions relied upon by the contesting parts. 11.7.1 This Court, in Solid and Correct Engineering (supra), applied the intendment and functionality test to determine whether any article is movable or immovable. The issue in the said case was whether the asphalt drum/hot mix plant, though apparently appearing to be immovable and fixed to the structure embedded to the earth, can be considered to be movable. After examining the expression “attached to the earth” as mentioned in Section 3 of the Transfer of Property Act, the observations of this Court were as follows: “25. It is evident from the above that the expression “attached to the earth” has three distinct dimensions viz. (a) rooted in the earth as in the case of trees and shrubs, (b) imbedded in the earth as in the case of walls or buildings, or (c) attached to what is imbedded for the permanent beneficial enjoyment of that to which it is attached. Attachment of the plant in question with the help of nuts and bolts to a foundation not more than 1½ ft deep intended to provide stability to the working of the plant and prevent vibration/wobble free operation does not qualify for being described as attached to the earth under any one of the three clauses extracted above. That is because attachment of the plant to the foundation is not comparable or synonymous to trees and shrubs rooted in earth. It is also not synonymous to imbedding in earth of the plant as in the case of walls and buildings, for the obvious reason that a building imbedded in the earth is permanent and cannot be detached without demolition. Imbedding of a wall in the earth is also in no way comparable to attachment of a plant to a foundation meant only to provide stability to the plant especially because the attachment [2024] 11 S.C.R.