An error apparent on the face of the record has to be self-evident. Where, conceivably, two opinions can be formed in a given set of facts and [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1097 S. Tirupathi Rao v. M. Lingamaiah & Ors. circumstances and one opinion of the two has been formed, there is no error apparent on the face of the record. However, disabusing our mind of such an impression, we have looked into each of the grounds. Not a single ground deserved consideration to embark on an exercise to review the and dated 16th August, 2018 even on the basis of discovery of new and important matter or evidence. We are constrained to observe that there has been usurpation of the power of review by the Division Bench (review) to overturn a well-considered and well- crafted decision of the Division Bench (original). 26. No other legitimate cause for review having been made out in the review petition before the High Court as well as before us by the first respondent and bearing in mind the above, we unhesitatingly hold that there was no valid, legal and/or proper ground for the Division Bench (review) to reverse the and under review on the basis of the additional documents brought on record by the first respondent during the review proceedings. 27. The first legal issue is, thus, answered in favour of the appellant. 28. Having held that the review jurisdiction was not available to be exercised by the Division Bench (review), reversal of the impugned is the solitary conceivable outcome. However, the importance of the second legal issue cannot be over-emphasized. The purpose of the law of contempt is to secure public respect and confidence in the judicial process. We have found the law on the question of applicability of the principle of “continuous wrong/breach/offence” for the purpose of section 20 of the Act not too certain; hence, we feel it expedient to give a brief overview of the law of contempt and how such law has evolved and developed as well as chart out the course of action to be followed by the high courts while exercising contempt jurisdiction not only generally but also on the face of an objection as to maintainability of a time-barred action initiated by a party for civil contempt. 29. The power of the Supreme Court and a high court to punish for breach of its s is expressly recognised by Articles 129 and 215 of the Constitution, respectively. It is an inherent power, distinguishable from a power derived from a statute. In R.L. Kapur v. State of Tamil Nadu,26 this Court pointed out that the inherent power 26 [1972] 3 SCR 417 : (1972) 1 SCC 651 1098 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports or jurisdiction was neither derived from the statutory law relating to contempt nor did such statutory law affect such inherent power or confer a new power or jurisdiction. In view of the recognition of such power by the Constitution itself, they partake the character of constitutional power and consequentially no law made by legislature could take away the jurisdiction conferred on the Supreme Court and the high courts.