This version, as set out in the testimony of the first informant, Sharan Kaur(PW-5), completely destroys her credibility. There cannot be two views on the aspect that if a case of homicidal death is reported at a Government hospital the doctors would immediately inform the police and there is no chance that the dead body would be allowed to be carried away by the family members. 22. It may be stated that the medical records of the Civil Hospitals at Tanda and Bhogpur were not collected by the investigating agency nor were the same brought on record by the prosecution in its evidence. Dr. Didar Singh (PW-1) Medical Officer, Civil Hospital, Dasuya examined the first informant-Sharan Kaur (PW-5) on 13th January, 1997 at about 07:05 a.m. In his cross examination, the doctor (PW-1) made the following admissions:- 720 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “...As per the record brought by me she has not given any history of assault. It is correct that as stated by Sharan Kaur that she has not been examined medico legally by any other doctor. No opinion regarding the weapon used was sought from me till today nor has any surgical opinion been received by me till today. As per my record she was admitted in hospital immediately after the medical examination.” 23. This version of Dr. Didar Singh, (PW-1) completely destroys the story put forth by Sharan Kaur (PW-5) that she and her family members had taken the victim to the Government hospitals referred to above or that the body was brought back to their home after such medical examination was conducted. Apparently, the dead body was just lying in the house till the police arrived who took both the victims to the hospital. 24. This fact is firmly cemented when we consider the deposition of Dr. Didar Singh (PW-1), who has stated that Sharan Kaur (PW-5) told him that she had not been examined medico legally by any other doctor and that she had been admitted in the hospital immediately after the medical examination. These inherent infirmities in the testimony of Sharan Kaur (PW-5) completely destroys her evidentiary worth and we have no hesitation in holding that she is a totally unreliable partisan witness. 25. Daljit Singh (PW-6), being the son of the deceased Balwinder Singh and the first informant-Sharan Kaur (PW-5), stated that he woke up on hearing the cries of his mother and saw that Kulwinder Singh had caught hold of his mother from her arm and both the assailants ran away on seeing him. He and his elder brother Gurmit Singh tried to pursue the offenders. Thereafter they climbed up the stairs and saw that their father was lying in a pool of blood. This witness (PW-6) also stated that he along with his mother took his father in a van to the Civil Hospital, Tanda where he was declared dead, however they did not believe the opinion so given and hence, they proceeded to Bhogpur and consulted Dr. Arora, who also confirmed the fact regarding the death of Balwinder Singh.