31. Dr. Singhvi submits that what this Court had directed by dated 25th April 2018, was to adopt the tariff with regard to L-4 and L-5 bidders. By the subsequent dated 19th November 2018, this Court clarified and directed to decide the tariff under Section 63 of the Electricity Act having regard to the law laid down both statutorily and by this Court. It is submitted that the only scrutiny that could be done by the Commission was only with regard to the following of the twin requirements as observed by this Court in the case of Energy Watchdog (supra). 32. Dr. Singhvi submits that the power to reject the bids is in respect of all price bids. He submits that if it is found that the bidding process was not transparent and the Guidelines were not followed or the bids are not market aligned, then the appellants would be entitled to reject all bids and not individually and selectively some bids. He submits that if the interpretation as placed by the appellants is to be accepted, it will vest an arbitrary power with the procurer of energy to arbitrarily reject the bid of any of the bidders. It is submitted that such an unfettered and unchecked discretion cannot be permitted to be exercised by the appellants/distribution companies (“DISCOMS”). 33. Dr. Singhvi submits that insofar as the aspect with regard to “consumer’s interest” is concerned, the learned APTEL has squarely covered the same. It has been held by the learned APTEL that the consumers’ interest is a broad term and among others, involves reliable, quality and un-interrupted power on long term basis besides being competitive. 34. The learned Senior Counsel submits that the State of Rajasthan needed 1000 MW of power when it invited the bids in question. He submits that the DISCOMS have even fairly admitted that they are still in need of power and as such, filed an Interlocutory Application [2024] 1 S.C.R. 933 Jaipur Vidyut Vitran Nigam Ltd. & Ors. v. MB Power (Madhya Pradesh) Limited & Ors. being I.A. No. 150366 of 2023 in Civil Appeal No.4612 of 2023 (for permission to file additional documents) seeking permission to procure power for medium term from the State Commission. It is, therefore, submitted that even in the larger public interest and consumer interest, the appellants should procure the power from the respondent No.1-MB Power. Dr. Singhvi submits that the appellants are bound to procure 906 MW of power in view of the s passed by this Court on 25th of April 2018. He submits that the RFP provides for bucket filling. It is, therefore, submitted that the appellants are required to procure the power going down the ladder from the bidders starting from L-1 to the one till procurement of 906 MW of power is complete. It is submitted that since many of the bidders had now gone into insolvency, it is only 3 bidders, which are left in the fray. L-1 bidder is supplying 195 MW power and L-2 is supplying 311 MW power.