However, the impugned would reveal that without considering Clause 6, the due date for handing over of possession of flats was fixed by the NCDRC by reckoning six months grace period from the date of payment of instalment No.11 (eleven), by the home buyer. Therefore, the question is which among the two methods is legally permissible. While the appellants contend that the former is bound to be followed in the matter of fixing the due date for handing over possession of flats, the first respondent would contend that the method adopted by the NCDRC is just and reasonable and there is no warrant or justifiable reason for any kind of interference. The decision in R.V. Prasannakumaar & Others. v. Mantri Castles 836 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Private Limited & Another.,3 referred to by the NCDRC, itself would answer this issue. In R.V. Prasannakumaar’s case (supra), going by the terms of the flat purchase agreement, possession of flats was liable to be handed over to the buyers on 31.01.2014. In that case about two years delay had occurred in the matter of handing over of possession. Consequently, NCDRC took the due date for handing over of possession with reference to the flat purchase agreement and fixed it as 01.02.2014. The fixation of the due date for possession as 01.02.2014 was upheld by this Court in R.V. Prasannakumaar’s case (supra). If that be so, in the absence of any exceptional circumstances, NCDRC should have fixed the date for possession in the same manner as has been done in R.V. Prasannakumaar’s case (supra), viz., in terms of the conditions in the Construction Agreement. True that in view of the specific condition for grant of six months grace period additionally to the buyer, the due date for possession in terms of Clause 6.1 of the agreement ought to have been fixed by reckoning six months from March, 2014, the promise date for handing over the flats mentioned in the Construction Agreement. A scanning of the impugned would reveal no exceptional circumstances for making deviation from the formula followed in R.V. Prasannakumaar’s case (supra) for fixing the due date for possession. NCDRC observed that the complainants have failed to give date-wise payment schedule. We are at a loss to understand as to how that can be a reason for fixing the due date for possession in total disregard to the method adopted in R.V. Prasannakumaar’s case (supra). The discussion in paragraph 8 would suggest that NCDRC after taking into account the fact that Schedule-E of the agreement contained ‘Construction Linked Payment Plan’ whereunder the sale consideration was to be paid in 12 instalments on different levels of construction, formed the opinion that the fixation of due date for possession is closely linked with payment of instalments as mentioned in Schedule-E. We have no hesitation to hold that there is no rationale for such a conclusion for the reason that as it was arrived at without considering the relevant condition contained in Clause 6.1 of the Construction 3 [2019] 5 SCR 821 : (2020) 14 SCC 769 [2024] 7 S.C.R.