The said exercise in the peculiar facts and circumstance so the case is unwarranted.” (emphasis supplied) 13. In view of the foregoing, it is clear that while challenging the selection and appointment of the appellant before the Collector, they were not the party. However, in revision they challenged the said and afforded the opportunity but their contentions did not find favour with revisional authority. As per the findings recorded and also by Learned Single Judge, it is clear that the appellants were relatives of the members of the selection committee which is not permissible as per the spirit of Sections 40 and 100 of the Adhiniyam. The Division Bench confirmed those findings holding that in the facts of the case, reasonable likelihood of bias cannot be ruled out. It was also held that at initial stage the appellants were required to be joined as parties before the Collector but because they have been given due opportunity by the revisional authority, before learned Single Judge, it has not caused any prejudice. Looking to the uncontroverted facts only their non-joinder before the Collector would not vitiate the impugned. 14. In the above factual background, it is required to be appreciated that whether due to non-joining the appellants before the Collector violates the principle of natural justice ? Consequently, whether the findings recorded against the appellants by two quasi-judicial authorities, writ court and the writ appellate court is liable to be interfered with in this appeal? 15. For appreciating the said issue, it is necessary to refer Sections 40 and 100 of the Adhiniyam, which are reproduced as thus: - 168 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “40. Removal of office-bearers of Panchayat- (1) The State Government or the prescribed authority may after such enquiry as it may deem fit to make at any time, remove an office-bearer- (a) if he has been guilty of misconduct in the discharge of his duties; or (b) if his continuance in office is undesirable in the interest of the public: Provided that no person shall be removed unless he has been given an opportunity to show cause why he should not be removed from his office. Explanation- For the purpose of this sub-section “Misconduct” shall include- (a) any action adversely affecting,- (i) the sovereignty, unity and integrity of India; or (ii) the harmony and the spirit of common brotherhood amongst all the people of State transcending religious, linguistic, regional, caste or sectional diversities; or (iii) the dignity of women; or (b) gross negligence in the discharge of the duties under this Act; [(c) the use of position or influence directly or indirectly to secure employment for any relative in the Panchayat or any action for extending any pecuniary benefits to any relative, such as giving out any type of lease, getting any work done through them in the Panchayat by an office-bearer of Panchayat. Explanation. – For the purpose of this clause, the expression “relative” shall mean father, mother, brother, sister, husband, wife, son, daughter, mother-in-law, father-in-law, brother-in- law, sister-in-law, son-in-law or daughter-in-law:]” “100.