60 (“Prafulla Kumar Mukherjee”). According to the pith and substance rule, if a law is in its pith and substance within the competence of the Legislature which has made it, it will not be invalid because it incidentally touches upon the subject lying within the competence of another Legislature vide State of Bombay vs. FN Balsara, AIR 1951 SC 318 (“FN Balsara”). 8.4.3 Once the legislation is found to be ‘with respect to’ the legislative Entry in question, unless there are other constitutional prohibitions, the power would be unfettered. It would also extend to all ancillary and subsidiary matters which can fairly and reasonably be said to be comprehended in that topic or category of legislation (vide United Provinces vs. Atiqa Begum, AIR 1941 FC 16 (“Atiqa Begum”)). 8.4.4 Another important aspect while construing the Entries in the respective Lists is that every attempt should be made to harmonise the contents of the Entries so that interpretation of one Entry should not render the entire content of another Entry nugatory (vide Calcutta Gas Company vs. State of West Bengal, AIR 1962 SC 1044 (“Calcutta Gas Company”)). This is especially so when some of the Entries in a different List or in the same List may overlap or may appear to be in direct conflict with each other. In such a situation, a duty is cast on 1758 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the Court to reconcile the Entries and bring about a harmonious construction. Thus, an effort must be made to give effect to both Entries and thereby arrive at a reconciliation or harmonious construction of the same. In other words, a construction which would reduce one of the Entries nugatory or a dead letter, is not to be followed. 8.4.5 The sequitur to the aforesaid discussion is that if the Legislature passes a law which is beyond its legislative competence, it is a nullity ab-initio. The Legislation is rendered null and void for want of jurisdiction or legislative competence vide RMDC vs Union of India, AIR 1957 SC 628 (“RMDC”). 8.4.6 In short, the Entries in the different Lists should be read together without giving a narrow meaning to any of them. The powers of the Union and the State Legislatures are expressed in precise and definite terms. Hence, there can be no broader interpretation given to one Entry than to the other. Even where an Entry is worded in wide terms, it cannot be so interpreted as to negate or override another Entry or make another Entry meaningless. In case of an apparent conflict between different Entries, it is the duty of the Court to reconcile them in the first instance. In case of an apparent overlapping between two Entries, the doctrine of pith and substance has to be applied to find out the true nature of a legislation and the Entry within which it would fall. Where one Entry is made “subject to” another Entry, all that it means is that out of the scope of the former Entry, a field of legislation covered by the latter Entry has been reserved to be specially dealt with by the appropriate legislature.