[2024] 10 S.C.R. 241 Just Rights for Children Alliance & Anr. v. S. Harish & Ors. 2. For the purpose of paragraph 1 above, the term “child pornography” shall include pornographic material that visually depicts: (a) a minor engaged in sexually explicit conduct; (b) a person appearing to be a minor engaged in sexually explicit conduct; (c) realistic images representing a minor engaged in sexually explicit conduct. 3. For the purpose of paragraph 2 above, the term “minor” shall include all persons under 18 years of age. A Party may, however, require a lower age-limit, which shall be not less than 16 years. 4. Each Party may reserve the right not to apply, in whole or in part, paragraphs 1, sub- paragraphs d. and e, and 2, sub-paragraphs b. and c 120. When the Committee desired to hear the views of the Department of Information Technology in incorporating an express provision on defining child pornography as suggested by the Expert Committee, it was replied that a new Section 67A related to punishment for publishing or transmitting of material containing sexually explicit acts has been proposed as per which stringent provision has been made relating to pornography in general and would also automatically cover child pornography. 121. On the issue of criminalising child pornography and making penal provision towards that, the Department stated that, the advice/ assistance in the Commission of Crime (Pornography) through offering advice on information regarding the websites for facilitating any possession or downloading illegal content might be considered an offence. 122. The Department of Information Technology also agreed to a suggestion that the pre-offence grooming i.e. the initial actions taken by the offender to prepare the 242 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports child for sexual relationships through online enticement and distributing or showing pornography to a child should also be made a criminal offence. RECOMMENDATIONS / OBSERVATIONS xxx xxx xxx Child Pornography 24. The Committee note that Clause 31 of the Bill intends to insert a new Section 67A which provides for stringent punishment for publishing or transmitting of material containing sexually explicit acts in electronic form. But the Committee are concerned to find that the term ‘child pornography’ has nowhere been mentioned in the proposed Section. The Department’s argument that the Section while covering ‘pornography’ will automatically cover child pornography does not convince the Committee as there should be no scope for assumption or presumption when fresh amendments are being proposed. The Committee, therefore, impress upon the Department to include the term ‘child pornography’ in the proposed Section 67A in view of its growing menace. They also desire that specific provisions should be incorporated in this Section to criminalise child pornography in tune with the laws prevailing in the advanced Countries and Article 9 of the Council of Europe Convention on Cyber Crimes. In view of the several manifestations of sexual abuse of the children and its loathsome ramifications, the Committee desire that the act of grooming the child for sexual relationship through online enticement or distributing/showing pornography or through any other online means should also be made a criminal offence and a suitable provision be made in this regard in the proposed Section 67A.” (Emphasis supplied) 148.