[2024] 2 S.C.R. 1204 : 2024 INSC 361 Balveer Batra v. The New India Assurance Company & Anr. (Civil Appeal No. 1842 of 2024) 08 February 2024 [C.T. Ravikumar* and Rajesh Bindal, JJ.] Issue for Consideration The question of territorial jurisdiction was decided by the Tribunal after about 4 years since the filing of the claim petition and the appeal filed in 2010 was dismissed, confirming the dismissal of the claim petition after about 6 years. Headnotes Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 – Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 – Victim (son of appellant) died in an motor vehicle accident – Appellant filed an application u/s. 166 of the MV before the tribunal – Issues framed – Both sides examined witnesses – Tribunal held that the mere fact that the insurance company got an office within the jurisdictional limits of the Tribunal could not confer jurisdiction on it – Based on negative finding on question of territorial jurisdiction, Tribunal decided all the other six issues against the claimant and in favour of the opposite parties – Claim petition was dismissed – High Court confirmed the view of the tribunal – Correctness: Held: The words ‘at the option of the claimant’ employed in s.166(2) assumes relevance – Indubitably, the statute indicates that option lies with the claimant – Merely because the claimant made the application for compensation not to the Claims Tribunal having jurisdiction over the area in which the accident occurred or not to the Claims Tribunal within the local limits of whose jurisdiction he resides or carries on business, is no reason to dismiss the application provided it is filed before a Claims Tribunal where it is otherwise maintainable – The branch of the insurance company lied within the limits of the Tribunal where the subject claim petition was filed – Further, for the purpose of deciding the issue of territorial jurisdiction, the Tribunal permitted the parties to adduce evidence for it – In terms of Or. XIV, Rule 2 CPC, the issues regarding territorial jurisdiction ought to be tried as primary issues but when * Author [2024] 2 S.C.R. 1205 Balveer Batra v. The New India Assurance Company & Anr. it is evident that the issue could not be decided solely based on the pleadings in the plaint (here claim petition) and when parties are permitted to adduce evidence upon finding that it is a mixed question of law and facts there was absolutely no justification for not pronouncing an award on all the issues framed besides the one pertaining to its territorial jurisdiction – In the case on hand a great illegality or error was committed by the Tribunal even after observing that it got no occasion to examine the other six issues but then deciding those six issues against the claimant and in favour of the opposite parties – The said other six issues were examined without going into the merits – The very purpose of the benevolent legislation providing for grant of compensation under Section 166 of the M.V.