Or got themselves persuaded and converted to the other point of view. 179. Brother Madon, J., to whom the was assigned by the learned Chief Justice, also appears to suffer heart-ache on the same score, for, in his covering letter dated July 6, 1985 forwarding the first instalment of 142 pages he says: 1 (1985) 3 SCC 398 1856 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports ‘...I regret to state that the draft could not be sent to you earlier. The reason was that as we did not have a meeting to discuss this matter, I did not know what would be the view of my other Brothers on the large number of points which fall to be determined in these cases, except partly in the case of two of my Brothers with whom by chance I got an opportunity to discuss certain broad aspects....’ If only there had been a meeting in to have a dialogue, there might have been a meeting of minds, and we might have spoken in one voice. Failing which, the holders of the dissenting view point could have prepared their dissenting opinions. That was not to be. On the other hand, it has so transpired, that, the full draft running into 237 pages has come to be circulated in the morning of July 11, 1985, less than 3 hours before the deadline for pronouncing the . There is a time compulsion to pronounce the , on 11th July, 1985, as the learned Chief Justice who has presided over the Constitution Bench is due to retire on that day, and the judge-time invested by the five Judges would be wasted if it is not pronounced before his retirement. The judge-time would be so wasted because the entire exercise would have to be done afresh. The neck-to-neck race against time and circumstances is so keen that it is impossible to prepare an elaborate presenting the other point of view within hours and circulate the same amongst all the Judges constituting the Bench in this important matter which was heard for months, months ago. I am, therefore, adopting the only course open to me in undertaking the present exercise. 180. ‘Challappan’, in my opinion, has been rightly decided. And there is no compulsion to overrule it— ***” I regret to find myself in the same unenviable position Hon’ble M.P. Thakkar, J. was placed in Tulsiram Patel (supra). 3. Hearing of these appeals and petitions commenced on 9th January, 2024. Spread over 8 (eight) days of marathon hearing, learned senior counsel/counsel advanced erudite arguments in respect of [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1857 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. a reference which this Bench of 7 (seven) Judges has been called upon to answer. was reserved on 1st February, 2024. The task of authoring the had not been assigned to me, which obviously left me with no other option but to wait for the draft opinion to reach my residential office. While the wait continued, it is only on 17th October, 2024 that the draft opinion authored by the Hon’ble the Chief Justice of India2, being the presiding Judge of the Bench, numbering 117 pages was placed on my desk.