However, the releasing him on bail is yet to be passed. While so, ‘B’s’ wife files a case under Section 498A of the IPC against him. Here, if the appellant’s argument is accepted. ‘B’ would not be able to apply for anticipatory bail while in custody for a case under Section 420. He can apply for anticipatory bail in relation to the case under Section 498A only if he is not arrested immediately after his release in the case under Section 420. If he is arrested immediately in the case under Section 498A after being released in the case under Section 420, then the only remedy left for him would be to seek regular bail. If the interpretation sought to be put forward by the appellant is accepted, two persons who are accused of similar offences are [2024] 9 S.C.R. 307 Dhanraj Aswani v. Amar S. Mulchandani & Anr. entitled to different sets of rights. While one is permitted to avail the right under Section 438 of the CrPC, the other is deprived of it, merely on the basis of the point in time when the FIR gets lodged. Illustration B (1) ‘X’ is in custody for an offence under Section 302 of the IPC punishable by life imprisonment or death, and subsequently an FIR is registered against him for an offence under Section 376 of the IPC which is punishable with imprisonment which may extend for life. Here, if the appellant’s argument is accepted, then ‘X’ would not be able to apply for anticipatory bail in the subsequent case, since he is in custody for the earlier case under Section 302 of the IPC. (2) ‘Y’ is in custody for an offence under Section 384 of the IPC [extortion – punishable with imprisonment for 3 years], and while in custody for this offence, an FIR is registered against him for an offence under Section 406 of the IPC [criminal breach of trust – punishable with imprisonment for 3 years]. In this example as well, if the argument of the appellant is accepted, ‘Y’ would not be able to apply for anticipatory bail, even though the offence is punishable with imprisonment for 3 years. ‘Y’, therefore, would be placed at par with a person who has committed a serious crime and would ordinarily not be granted anticipatory bail. However, by prohibiting ‘Y’ from even applying for anticipatory bail for an offence punishable by imprisonment for a maximum of 3 years [i.e. Section 406 of the IPC], ‘Y’ is placed in the same class as ‘X’. E. CONCLUSION 60. Our examination of the matter has led us to the following conclusions: i. An accused is entitled to seek anticipatory bail in connection with an offence so long as he is not arrested in relation to that offence. Once he is arrested, the only remedy available to him is to apply for regular bail either under Section 437 or Section 439 of the CrPC, as the case may be. This is evident from para 39 of Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia (supra).