The said application was allowed. A short reply was filed on behalf of the High Court by O.S.D. (Rules and Litigation) in which reliance was placed on Rule 6, Part H, Chapter I of Volume III of the High Court Rules and s. Rule 6 provided that it is undesirable for courts to make remarks censuring the action of police officers unless such remarks are strictly relevant to the case. It also provided that there should not be any over-alacrity on the part of Judicial Officers to believe anything and everything against the police. Prima facie, we were of the view that this Rule interferes with the discretion available to the judges. It is unnecessary for us now to deal with Rule 6 as a document has been placed on record by the learned ASG appearing for the High Court that the Rule Committee of the High Court has approved the deletion of Rule 6 and the approval of the Hon’ble Governor has been sought for the deletion. SUBMISSIONS 8. Learned counsel appearing for the appellant has invited our attention to factual aspects of the case dealt with by the appellant, which warranted the appellant to pass strict s against the Police Officers and issue directions referred to above. He pointed out that the appellant did not take forward the show cause notice issued to the IO and SHO, calling upon them to show cause as to why criminal law should not be set in motion against them for the offence punishable under Section 177 of the IPC. He pointed out that all that the appellant did was point out flaws in the investigation and the failure to update SCRB data. He submitted that there 868 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports was non-compliance with the standard operating procedure dated 29th January 2021 issued by the Office of Commissioner of Police of Delhi, through Deputy Commissioner of Police, on this behalf. He submitted that nothing is wrong if the appellant criticises the IO for not properly maintaining the case diary. 9. Coming to the remarks made in the first impugned , he relied upon decisions of this Court in the case of V.K. Jain v. High Court of Delhi through Registrar General and Ors.,1 K.P. Tiwari v. State of M.P.2 and in Re: ‘K’, A Judicial Officer.3 He submits that the remarks against the appellant in paragraphs 13 and 14 of the first impugned deserve to be expunged. He submitted that in the first impugned , the High Court relied upon its own decision in the case of Ajit Kumar v. State (NCT of Delhi),4 which in turn relies upon Rule 6, which has been now deleted. 10. He submitted that due to the adverse remarks against the appellant in the first impugned , the unblemished career of the appellant as a Judicial Officer is likely to be adversely affected. He also invited our attention to observations made by this Court in the case of Dayal Singh and Ors.