Supreme Court Reports a. The purpose of Article 30(1) 49. A brief reference to the drafting history of the provision will help us discern the purpose of the provision. On 19 April 1947, the Minorities Sub-Committee (which was appointed to examine and propose changes to the draft clauses of the fundamental rights Committee) submitted the interim report to the Chairperson of the Advisory Committee on Minorities and Fundamental Rights.32 The Minorities Sub-Committee recommended, inter alia, the inclusion of a constitutional provision that stipulated that all minorities, whether based on religion, community or language shall be free to establish and administer educational institutions of their choice.33 However, when the first Draft of the Constitution was submitted by the Drafting Committee to the President of the Constituent Assembly, the provision guaranteed a right to establish and administer educational institutions.34 This change in the language of the provision is crucial to understanding the scope of the provision. The provision guaranteed a purely negative group right to religious and linguistic minorities against the State with the use of the words “shall be free”, that is, the right to ensure that the State does not discriminate against minorities who wish to establish and administer educational institutions. However, upon the use of the phrase ‘right’, the possibility of interpreting the provision as a guarantee of a positive right arose. 50. It cannot be disputed that Article 30(1) guarantees the minority educational institutions, the right to not be discriminated. In fact, Article 30(2) is a facet of the principle of non-discrimination of minorities. The Article provides that the State shall not discriminate in granting aid to educational institutions or discriminate on the ground that it is under the management of a religious or linguistic minority. The question is whether the use of ‘right’ in Article 30(1) also guarantees a ‘special right’ in addition to the right to non-discrimination. 51. While there is no doubt that Article 30 protects the rights of minorities, this Court has in numerous s conceptualised varied reasons for the constitutional guarantee. In Ahmedabad St. Xavier’s College 32 B. Shiva Rao, The Framing of India’s Constitution: Select Documents [Vol II, The Indian Institute of Public Administration] 207 33 Ibid[ 273] 34 Draft Constitution of India 1948, Article 23(a) [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1709 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. Society v. State of Gujarat,35 a nine-Judge Bench discussed the objective of the provision in detail. Chief Justice Ray writing for himself and Justice Palekar observed that Article 30 ensures equality between the majority and the minority, which would be denied in the absence of a special provision.36 Justice HR Khanna cast the purpose of the provision in terms of substantive equality and observed that Article 30 guarantees ‘special rights’ to give minorities a ‘sense of security’. The learned Judge observed that the real effect of the provision was to “ensure the preservation of the minority institutions by guaranteeing the minorities autonomy […] in administration.”37 Justice Mathew, writing for himself and Justice YV Chandrachud, also traced the purpose to the guarantee to substantive equality for minorities.