The context encompasses several other critical dimensions. First, it involves reading the statute as a whole. Second, it is also crucial to take into account any previous statutes that are in pari materia. Third, a comprehensive understanding of the general scope and purpose of the statute is essential. Finally, a critical aspect of interpreting any statutory provision also involves identifying the mischief that the legislation intended to address.15 Therefore, a nuanced and thorough interpretation would lend clarity and consistency in the application of legal principles. 18. In this regard, Justice GP Singh in his seminal treatise on Interpretation of Statutes16 had this to say: 14 Subba Rao J in Gurmej Singh S v. Sardar Pratap Singh Kairon, AIR 1960 SC 122 15 R S Raghunath v. State of Karnataka, AIR 1992 SC 81; Union of India v. Elphinstone Spg. and Wvg. Co. Ltd. (2001) 4 SCC 139; Powdrill v. Watson (1995) 2 AC 394 16 Justice G.P. Singh: Principles of Statutory Interpretation (LexisNexis, 2016) [2024] 11 S.C.R. 573 M/s Bajaj Alliance General Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Rambha Devi & Ors. “It is a rule now firmly established- that the intention of the Legislature must be found by reading the statute as a whole. The rule is referred to as an “elementary rule” by Viscount Simonds; a “compelling rule” by Lord Somervell of Harrow; . and a “settled rule” by BK Mukherjee. “I agree”, said Lord Halsbury, “that you must look at the whole instrument inasmuch as there may be inaccuracy and inconsistency; you must, if you can, ascertain what is the meaning of the instrument taken as a whole in to give effect, if it be possible to do so, to the intention of the framer of it”.” 19. Let us now start by noting and understanding the statutory framework of the MV Act and the MV Rules. A snapshot of all the chapters of MV Act is listed below: Chapter I-Definitions Chapter II-Licensing of drivers of motor vehicles Chapter III-Licensing of Conductors of Stage Carriages. Chapter IV-Registration of motor vehicles. Chapter V-Control of Transport Vehicles Chapter VI-Special provisions relating to State Transport Undertakings Chapter VII-Construction, Equipment and Maintenance of motor vehicles. Chapter VIII-Control of Traffic Chapter IX-Motor Vehicles temporarily leaving or visiting India Chapter XI- Insurance of Motor Vehicles against third party risks Chapter XII-Claims Tribunals Chapter XIII-Offences, Penalties and Procedure Chapter XIV-Miscellaneous 20. The MV Rules contain the following chapters: Chapter I-Preliminary Chapter II-Licensing of Drivers of Motor Vehicles Chapter III-Registration of Motor Vehicles Chapter IV-Control of Transport Vehicles 574 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Chapter V-Construction, Equipment and Maintenance of Motor Vehicles Chapter VI-Control of Traffic Chapter VII-Insurance of Motor Vehicles Against Third Party Risks Chapter VIII-Offences, Penalties and Procedure Chapter IX-Examination of Good Samaritan and Enquiry 21. This court, to effectively address the issue, is primarily concerned with Chapter II of the MV Act and the MV Rules which relates to licensing of drivers of motor vehicles. The Forms concerning driving license appended to the MV Rules, may also bear a reference.