(i) Section 28 deals with the power of State Government to make Rules. Clause (h) provides for “the exemption of drivers of road rollers from all or any of the provisions of this Chapter or of the rules made thereunder” (ii) An exception is carved out in Section 7, 9 and 27 of MV Act for e-cart or e-rickshaw. For instance, the proviso to Section 7 states that “Provided that nothing contained in this section shall apply to an e-cart or e-rickshaw”. (iii) Similarly, Rule 8A provides for minimum training for driving E-rickshaw or E-cart. Rule 9 provides for educational qualifications for drivers of goods carriage carrying dangerous or hazardous goods. 612 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Therefore, the present interpretation will not have any impact for such vehicles. 84. It was also argued that the form of the driving license provides for the validity period for ‘Transport’ and ‘Non Transport Vehicle’. On this contention, we can benefit by the following words of Justice O. Chinnappa Reddy in Life Insurance Corporation v. Escorts,36 where for a similar insistence on form, the Judge opined as under:- “Surely, the Form cannot control the Act, the Rules or the directions. As one learned Judge of the Madras High Court was fond of saying it is the dog that wags the tail and not the tail that wags the dog. We may add what this Court had occasion to say in Vasudev Ramchandra Shelat v. Pranlal Jayanand Thakar [(1975) 1 S.C.R. 534 : AIR 1974 SC 1728 : 1974 (2) SCC 323 : 1975 (45) Com. Cas. 43.] : “The subservience of substance of a transaction to some rigidly prescribed form required to be meticulously observed, sevours of archaic and outmoded jurisprudence.” 85. A harmonious interpretation of various sections would lead us to conclude that a person holding a LMV license is equally competent to drive a Transport Vehicle, provided of course the vehicle’s gross weight does not exceed 7,500 kgs. The reference to ‘transport vehicle’ in Section 3(1) and other sections of the Act and Rules should therefore be understood as applying to only those vehicles which fall beyond the scope of the sensu stricto definition, under Section 2(21). This interpretation would ensure that no provision or word is rendered otiose and the licensing regime remains coherent with the legislative intent. Such an interpretation would also avoid illogical outcomes as discussed above. V. Discussion on the 8 Conflicting decisions 86. The legal landscape surrounding the issue of whether a driver holding a license for a ‘Light motor vehicle’ can operate a ‘Transport Vehicle’ without obtaining a specific endorsement has been marked by a myriad of conflicting s. The genesis of the present reference stems from eight conflicting decisions which were thereafter 36 [1985] Supp. 3 SCR 909 : (1986) 2 SCC 264 [2024] 11 S.C.R. 613 M/s Bajaj Alliance General Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Rambha Devi & Ors. referred to a 3-judge bench in Mukund Dewangan (2017). On the issue of Transport Vehicles of the LMV class being driven by a driver with a LMV License, in the event of an accident involving an insured vehicle, some opinions have held the insurance company liable to pay compensation while few others have noted that the driver did not have a valid license for a ‘transport vehicle’ although he was possessing a LMV license.