Further, Justice Surya Kant has delineated the extent of judicial review and has observed that while examining the constitutionality of a policy, the courts have to examine whether the policy infringes upon the fundamental rights of the citizens, contravenes constitutional or statutory provisions or displays manifest arbitrariness, capriciousness or mala fides. At the same time, he has clarified that this Court should not sit in over a policy to determine whether revisions are necessary for its enhancement. 8. On the second preliminary issue pertaining to delay and laches, Justice Surya Kant has held that although there has been a considerable delay in filing of the present batch of petitions, yet they do not deserve to be dismissed at the outset as they raise substantial questions that pertain to the constitutional validity of a statutory provision and affect the public at large.2 I concur with the views expressed by him on both the prefatory issues. 9. On the substantive issues, Justice Surya Kant has first dealt with the submission of the petitioners that Section 6A of the Citizenship Act is violative of the preambular notion of fraternity. After elaborating on the idea of fraternity as understood by the framers of our Constitution in detail, he has held that the ethos underlying Section 6A align with the concept of fraternity, as envisaged by our Constitution and 1 Paragraphs 45-46 of the of Justice Surya Kant. 2 Id., paragraphs 72, 75. 1150 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports interpreted by our courts. He has held that the concept of fraternity cannot be applied in a restrictive manner to protect and promote the endogamous way of life of any specific community.3 10. Justice Surya Kant has thereafter examined if Section 6A of the Act is violative of Articles 64 and 75 respectively of the Constitution and whether the Parliament in exercise of its powers under Article 116 of the Constitution could have enacted such a provision. He has held that it was within the competence of the legislature to enact the provision and that the conditions mentioned under Section 6A are similar to those under Articles 6 and 7 of the Constitution, thereby indicating that Section 6A aligns with the underlying object of both these Articles, which was to grant citizenship to people affected by the partition of India.7 11. While I agree with my learned brother’s view that the Parliament, undoubtedly, has the jurisdiction to specify conditions for the conferment of citizenship and thus Section 6A of the Citizenship Act is not rendered void for the lack of competence of the legislature, I wish to express my disagreement with the fundamental premise of his reasoning that Section 6A is similar in form and identical in spirit with Articles 6 and 7 respectively of the Constitution. 3 Id., paragraphs 117-118. 4 6. Rights of citizenship of certain persons who have migrated to India from Pakistan.— Notwithstanding anything in article 5, a person who has migrated to the territory of India from the territory now included in Pakistan shall be deemed to be a citizen of India at the commencement of this Constitution if— (a) he or either of his parents or any of his grand-parents was born in India as defined in the Government of India Act, 1935 (as originally enacted); and (b)(i) in the case where such person has so migrated before the nineteenth day of July, 1948, he has been ordinarily resident in the territory of India since the date of his migration, or (ii) in the case where such person has so migrated on or after the nineteenth day of July, 1948, he has been registered as a citizen of India by an officer appointed in that behalf by the Government of the Dominion of India on an application made by him therefor to such officer before the commencement of this Constitution in the form and manner prescribed by that Government: Provided that no person shall be so registered unless he has been resident in the territory of India for at least six months immediately preceding the date of his application.