810 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 15.4. Clause (3) of 19 makes it clear that in case disciplinary proceeding under the relevant rules of service has been initiated against an officer before he ceases to be in the service of SBI, the disciplinary proceeding may, at the discretion of the Managing Director, be continued after cessation of service and concluded by the authority which had initiated the same as if the officer continues in service. However, such an officer shall be deemed to be in service only for the purpose of continuance and conclusion of such proceeding. 15.5. A conjoint reading of the three clauses of 19 would indicate that an officer of SBI shall retire from the service of the said bank on fulfilment of either of the three conditions. However, the competent authority has the discretion to extend the period of service of such an officer, if such extension is deemed desirable in the interest of SBI though the extended period of service will not be counted for the purpose of pension. Under clause (2), no officer who has ceased to be in the service of SBI by virtue of the contingencies stipulated in clause (1), shall be deemed to have retired from service for the purpose of the Pension and Guarantee Fund Rules or the Pension Fund Rules unless such cessation of service has been sanctioned. Therefore, the sanctioning of cessation of service is only for the purpose of the aforesaid rules. Clause (3) contains the clarification that if disciplinary proceeding has been initiated against such an officer under the relevant service rules before he ceases to be in the service of SBI, the disciplinary proceeding may be continued and concluded by the authority which had initiated the same even post cessation of service of the officer. However, he shall be deemed to be in service only for the purpose of continuance and conclusion of such proceeding and not for any other purpose. 16. Now let us turn to the State Bank of India Officers’ Service Rules, 1992 (already referred to as ‘the Service Rules’). Preamble to the Service Rules says that the said rules have been framed by the Central Board of the State Bank of India exercising powers conferred by sub-Section(1) of Section 43 of the State Bank of India Act, 1955 to determine the terms and conditions of appointment and service of all officers in the State Bank of India. The Service Rules came into effect from 01.01.1992. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 811 State Bank of India & Ors. v. Navin Kumar Sinha 16.1. Rule 2(1) says that the Service Rules shall apply to all officers of SBI who are appointed or promoted to any of the grades mentioned in Rule 4 and also to whom any of the rules mentioned thereunder are applicable. The rules include the State Bank of India Officers’ (Determination of Terms and Conditions of Service) , 1979 (already referred to as ‘the Service ’ hereinbefore). Rule 19 deals with retirement.