(iii) Thirdly, as for whether a proper evaluation of the GE plant is scientifically tenable in greenhouse conditions and whether it is possible to replicate the conditions for testing under different agro-ecological regions and seasons in greenhouse, the majority noted that it cannot be said that it is generally possible to replicate the conditions for testing under different agro-ecological regions and conditions in the greenhouse. 1986 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (iv) Fourthly, the majority noted the need to develop specific sites for conducting field trials. It also emphasised the need for sufficient mechanisms for monitoring the trials and ensuring restricted access, disposal of material, associated testing and other facilities. These sites were recommended to be used only for field trials of GM crops (GM and control material). The sites could be in Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) Institutes or State Agricultural Universities and required conditions for isolation should be established and supported appropriately by ICAR. Sites in company premises may also be considered for certification for trials, however the land should be permanently owned by the applicant/ tester. Trials should not be conducted on leased land so as to avoid the possibility that it may be used for a different purpose following the trials. (v) Fifthly, on the feasibility of prescribing validated protocols and active testing for contamination with the view to preclude any escaped material from causing an adverse effect on the environment, the majority noted that the tests for detecting contamination at the stipulated level (0.01 %) are possible and have been demonstrated in some of the dossiers. However, it was emphasized that these in themselves do not preclude material from escaping. There are several ways in which contamination can occur and it probably will not be possible to deploy the tests at a level that will preclude the possibility of escape. Even in the most careful of conditions, contamination can occur. There are well-known examples of contamination having occurred as well. (vi) Finally, on whether institutions and laboratories in India have the state-of-art testing facilities and professional expertise to conduct various biosafety tests, the majority noted that the professional expertise and standards across the institutions appeared unsatisfactory. However, it noted that it is ultimately the expertise available in the regulatory system that sets the standards for conducting and evaluating the biosafety tests. Unless this expertise and capacity is present, no amount of facility creation [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1987 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. will be able to address the issues. Based on the examination of the safety dossiers the majority found that at present, the regulatory system has major gaps and these will require rethinking, investment, and re-learning to fix. A deeper understanding of the process of Risk Assessment is needed within the regulatory system for it to meet the needs of a proper biosafety evaluation. This is not available in the country as per the majority. It, therefore, recommended that the requisite understanding be developed through consultation, collaboration, and capacity building.