The land belongs to the Forest Department and therefore, Defendant No. 1 had absolutely no role in dealing with it in any manner. Proceeding under the A.P. Land Revenue Act, 1317 F. has got no relevancy or connection with a concluded proceeding under the A. P. Forest Act. The proceeding under the A. P. Forest Act was concluded on 11.11.1971. Thereafter, without any jurisdiction, an was passed under Section 87 of the A.P. Land Revenue Act, 1317 F. 56. The High Court on the earlier occasion had given a clear finding that even at the time of declaration under the A.P. Land Revenue Act, 1317 F, these lands were not shown as private lands by the defendant, among other factual findings. It is indeed very strange that the High Court which is expected to act within the statutory limitation went beyond and graciously gifted the forest land to a private person who could not prove his title. While disposing of the first appeal, the High Court exercised its power under XLI Rule 22 of the CPC 1908 for partly reversing the trial court decree. Even otherwise, there were concurrent findings in so far as dismissal of the suit for injunction is concerned. In our considered view, the High Court showed utmost interest and benevolence in allowing the review by setting aside the well merited in the appeal by replacing its views in all material aspects. 57. Let us alternatively examine the question of maintainability of a suit for the relief of declaration. The suit filed is not maintainable as the plaintiff has not challenged the proceedings under Section 15 of 142 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports A. P. Forest Act. These have become final and conclusive in view of the express declaration provided under the statute in Section 16 of A. P. Forest Act. Rather, the plaintiff filed an application for denotification before the Government which was rejected. Neither the State Government, which rejected the said application, nor the Forest Settlement Officer has been made as party defendants in the suit, with the State arrayed as respondent represented by the Principal Secretary, Forest Department, at a later stage in the appeal. Though, the Forest Officer of the Forest Department may be an interested party, the authority who otherwise could answer is the Forest Settlement Officer. He is the one who concluded the proceedings. In any case, the said exercise is irrelevant as the Plaintiff could not prove his title nor does there lie any relevance to the action taken under the A.P. Land Revenue Act, 1317 F. Furthermore, there is no specific challenge to the concluded proceedings under the A. P. Forest Act. The Plaintiff has merely asked for declaration of title and permanent injunction restraining the Defendants from interfering with possession. 58. We, thus, conclude that the impugned does not stand the legal scrutiny as it is ridden with both factual and legal errors. 59. Accordingly, the appeal stands allowed. The impugned stands set aside by restoring the judgement rendered in A.S. No.