[2024] 11 S.C.R. 1472 : 2024 INSC 928 The State of Karnataka v. Chandrasha (Criminal Appeal No. 2646 of 2024) 26 November 2024 [Sanjiv Khanna, CJI, Sanjay Kumar and R. Mahadevan,* JJ.] Issue for Consideration Issue as regards the correctness of the passed by the High Court setting aside the conviction of the respondent-government servant u/ss.7 and 13(1)(d) r/w s.13(2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 for demanding of illegal gratification and its subsequent acceptance. Headnotes† Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 – ss.7, 13(1)(d), 13(2) and 20 – Illegal gratification – Presumption u/s. 20, if attracted – Prosecution case of demand and acceptance of bribe amount by the respondent-government servant from the complainant for encashment of the bill of Surrender leave salary pertaining to the complainant and three others of his school and recovery of the same from the possession of the respondent – Conviction of the respondent u/ss.7 and 13(1)(d) r/w s.13(2) – However, of acquittal by the High Court – Correctness: Held: Prosecution initiated the proceedings against the respondent, after obtaining the sanction from the competent authority – It can be safely infered that the respondent had received or accepted the currency notes on his own volition and the testimony of the prosecution witnesses including the testimony of the investigating officer would go to show the demand, acceptance and recovery of the bribe amount from the possession of the respondent and the prosecution proved the charges framed against the respondent beyond reasonable doubt – Said operation was preceded by recording of the demand in the tape rec – In such circumstances, the respondent had to rebut the presumption by disproving the case of the prosecution either in the cross-e xamination of the prosecution side witnesses or by adducing material evidence that the receipt * Author [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1473 The State of Karnataka v. Chandrasha of Rs.2,000/- was not a bribe amount, but a legal fee or repayment of loan – However, he failed to do so and on the contrary, the prosecution proved the case beyond any doubt – Furthermore, first two limbs under sub sections (1) and (2) of s.13 make it clear that adequacy of consideration is irrelevant to draw the presumption – That apart, sub-section (3) only grants a discretion to Court to decline from drawing any presumption if the amount is so trivial so that such inference of corruption is not fairly possible in the facts of the case – Thus, not a rule but an exception available to the Court to exercise its discretionary power in the facts and circumstances of the case – On facts, no inclination to exercise such discretion – of acquittal passed by the High Court is illegal, erroneous and contrary to the materials on record – Recovery of bribe amount from the respondent having been proved, explanation offered by the respondent in the absence of any concrete material, cannot be accepted – ‘Demand’ and ‘acceptance’ of the bribe amount having been established beyond doubt, no two views possible, thus the approach adopted by the High Court is perverse – passed by the High Court set aside and that of the trial court restored.