Therefore, the appellant has filed the present civil appeals under Section 22 of the National Green Tribunal Act, 2010,3 seeking the modification of such criteria. 2. We have heard the arguments of Mr. Sanjay Parikh, Senior Advocate for the Appellant assisted by Ms. Srishti Agnihotri, Ld. Advocate, Mr. Nalin Kohli, Ld. Advocate for State of Goa assisted by Mr. Sanjay Upadhyay, Ld. Advocate, Ms. Suhashini Sen, Ld. Advocate for Union of India and Mr. Mukul Rohatgi, Ld. Senior Advocate for impleading applicant, perused the case-papers. FACTUAL MATRIX IN BRIEF 3. The challenge in the present appeals revolves around the criteria issued by the Respondent(s) i.e., the State of Goa and Others for the identification of ‘forests’ in the State, hence, it is important to trace 1 Hereinafter to be read as “NGT”. 2 In Re: TN Godavarman Thirumulpad (Writ Petition No.202 of 1995). 3 Hereinafter to be referred as “NGT Act, 2010”. 708 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the history of adoption of these criteria which are under challenge before us. Accordingly, in the subsequent paragraphs we have traced the brief history of these criteria. 4. Pursuant to the Judgement of the High Court of Bombay in Shivanand Salgaocar v. Tree Officer & Ors.4 declaring the application of the Forest (Conservation) Act, 19805 to all lands, whether government or privately owned, the Conservator of Forests, State of Goa, in 1991 set out the guidelines for identifying ‘forest’ in private properties. Vide letter dated 04.10.1991 the attention of the Ministry of Environment and Forest (MoEF) was sought on the said guidelines with a request to issue suitable guidelines to implement the FCA 1980 on the basis of the aforesaid decision of the Bombay High Court. The guidelines were as follows: “Criteria for application of Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980 to private forests. i) Extent of area: Long term viability of a piece of forest land is an important consideration. Obviously, very small patches of forest cannot be viable in the long run from conservation Point of view. Therefore, a minimum extent of area will have to be determined to which the Forest (Cons.) Act, 1980 would be applicable in private and revenue areas not recorded as ‘forest’. I propose that this area should be at least 5 hectares. It is not worthy that the Forest (Cons.) Act, 1980 and guidelines made there under do not prescribe any such minimum area for application of the Act. ii) Proximity and/or contiguity: The proximity of the private forests concerned to a larger forest area and / or its contiguity with the later area should also be an important aspect to consider while examining such areas. iii) Composition of crop: It is important to prescribe minimum standards in terms of crop composition in to distinguish forest species from horticultural species. This is particularly relevant in State like Goa where occurrence 4 Writ Petition No.162 of 1987. 5 Hereinafter to be read as “FCA 1980”. [2024] 1 S.C.R. 709 T. N. Godavarman Thirumulpad v. Union of India and Others of large number of cashew, jackfruit and coconut trees in private areas is a common feature.