In any case, the accused is still under incarceration. DISCUSSION 55. On perusal, we find that the High Court, while passing both the impugned s, has not only called for the records and rendered findings of fact, but has also considered them in detail. At every stage, the accused was denied due opportunity to defend himself. The appellant judicial officer was obviously acting in utmost haste. Every trial is a journey towards the truth and a Presiding Officer is expected to create a balanced atmosphere in the mind of the prosecution and the defence. It seems to us that the decision was rendered in utmost haste. It would be humanly impossible to deliver the within half an hour’s time running into 27 pages consisting of 59 paragraphs in the first case and similarly in the other. The lawyer for the defence cannot fight against the court. It is the court which has to follow a balanced approach. At every stage, including framing of charges, there was a constant denial of due opportunity and hearing. The accused was not able to consult his lawyer. He was not even served with the copies, though his lawyer received the same before framing of the charges. Receiving of documents by his lawyer would not be sufficient compliance, unless there was sufficient time given for him to peruse them and thereafter have a consultation. Admittedly, neither the provisions of the Witness Protection Scheme, 2018 have been invoked nor the Rules for Video Conferencing for Courts, 2020 were followed. The accused was merely shown the court’s proceedings and the writing was on the wall for him. We are not willing to say anything on the merits of the case. On facts, even in Criminal Appeal No. 3925 of 2023, the trial had commenced and concluded in a single day. Additionally, no lawyer could be engaged by the accused and, therefore, as per the recommendations of the prosecutor, another one was engaged. Otherwise, the facts are more or less similar in both the cases and, therefore, we are not inclined to go into it in detail. When the charges are very serious, Courts should be more circumspect in discharging their solemn duty. 56. We do not think that the decisions relied upon by the learned senior counsel for the appellant have any bearing on the present case. The appellant judicial officer is fortunate that no action was taken against [2024] 5 S.C.R. 729 Sunita Devi v. The State of Bihar & Anr. him. We do not wish to say anything more on this, except by stating that in the absence of any proposed action, there is no question of hearing the appellant. Thus, we are not inclined to interfere on the merits of the case with respect to non-compliance of the mandatory provisions, as the accused is still under incarceration. 57. On the application filed seeking intervention over the action taken on the administrative side, it is for the appellant to approach the High Court. It is an administrative action taken and, therefore, the same does not require any interference on the judicial side by us, especially in light of the discussion made above.