Digital Supreme Court Reports law made by Parliament and, until so determined, to such allowances and rights as are specified in the Second Schedule.” 9. The High Court Judges (Salaries and Conditions of Service) Act 19541 has been enacted by Parliament “to regulate salaries and certain conditions of service of the Judges of the High Court”. Section 2(1)(g) of the Act defines the expression ‘Judge’ to mean a Judge of a High Court and to include the Chief Justice, an acting Chief Justice, an Additional Judge and an acting Judge of the High Court. Chapter III of the statute deals with salaries and pensions. Section 14 stipulates that subject to the provisions of the Act, every Judge would, on retirement be paid a pension in accordance with the scale and provisions in Part I of the Schedule. The proviso, however, qualifies the entitlement to pension by stipulating that “no such pension shall be payable to a Judge unless”: (a) he has completed not less than twelve years of service for pension; or (b) he has attained the age of superannuation; or (c) his retirement is medically certified to be necessitated by ill health. 10. The proviso to Section 14 stipulates that if a Judge is in receipt of a pension at the time of their appointment in respect of any previous service in the Union or a State, other than a disability or wound pension, the pension payable under the Act shall be in lieu of and not in addition to that pension. The Explanation to Section 14, however, is in the following terms: “Explanation.— In this section “Judge” means a Judge who has not held any other pensionable post under the Union or a State and includes a Judge who having held any other pensionable post under the Union or a State has elected to receive the pension payable under Part I of the First Schedule.” 11. In terms of the Explanation, an artificial meaning is ascribed to the expression ‘Judge’ for the purpose of Section 14. The meaning 1 ‘The Act’ [2024] 3 S.C.R. 855 Union of India, Ministry of Law & Justice v. Justice (Retd) Raj Rahul Garg (Raj Rani Jain) and Others ascribed to the expression, for the purposes of Section 14, is a Judge who has not held any other pensionable post under the Union or a State and includes a Judge who, having held any other pensionable post under the Union or a State, elects to receive the pension payable under Part I of the First Schedule. At this stage, it would be, therefore, material to emphasize that while Section 2(1)(g) contains a broad and all-encompassing definition of the expression ‘Judge’, the same expression for the purposes of Section 14 has a more restricted meaning as described in the Explanation. 12. Section 15 contains a special provision for the payment of pension to Judges who are members of the service. Section 15 is in the following terms: “15. Special provision for pension in respect of Judges who are members of service.—[(1)] Every Judge— (a) * * * * (b) who * * * has held any other pensionable post under the Union or a State, shall, on his retirement, be paid a pension in accordance with the scale and provisions in Part III of the First Schedule: Provided that every such Judge shall elect to receive the pension payable to him either under Part I of the First Schedule or, * * * Part III of the First Schedule, and the pension payable to him shall be calculated accordingly.