453 Association for Democratic Reforms & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. The provision stipulated that companies cannot contribute to (a) any political party; and (b) to any individual or body for any political purpose, amounts exceeding twenty-five thousand rupees in a financial year or five percent of its average net profits during the three financial years immediately preceding the contribution, whichever is greater. Companies were also required to disclose the amount contributed in a financial year in their profit and loss accounts and furnish particulars of the total amount contributed and the name of the party, individual or entity to which or to whom such amount was contributed. Companies defaulting in complying with the disclosure requirement were punishable with a fine which could extend to rupees five thousand. 5. |The Companies (Amendment) Act 1969 amended Section 293A® so as to ban contributions to political parties and for political purposes. Companies acting in contravention of the prohibition were punishable with a fine which could extend to five thousand rupees, and every officer who defaulted was punishable with imprisonment which could extend to three years, besides being liable to fine. 6. The Companies (Amendment) Act 1985 amended Section 293A% to the three financial years immediately preceding, whichever is greater. Explanation- Where a portion of a financial year of the company falls before the commencement of the Companies (Amendment) Act, 1960, and a portion falls after such commencement, the latter portion shall be deemed to be a financial year within the meaning, and for the purposes, of this sub-section. (2) Every company shall disclose in its profit and loss account any amount or amounts contributed by it under sub-section (1) to any political party or for any political purpose to any individual or body during the financial year to which the account relates, giving particulars of the total amount contributed and the name of the party, individual or body to which or to whom such amount has been contributed. (3) If a company makes a default in complying with the provisions of sub-section (2), the company, and every officer of the company who is in default shall be punishable with fine which may extend to five thousand rupees.” 8 “Section 293A. (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other provision of this Act, neither a company in general meeting nor its Board of directors shall, after the commencement of the Companies (Amendment) Act 1960 contribute any amount or amounts- (a) To any political party or (b) For any political purpose to an individual or body. (2) If a company contravenes the provisions of sub-section (1) then- (i) | the company shall be punishable with fine which may extend to five thousand rupees; and (ii) | every officer of the company who is in default shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years and shall also be liable to fine” 9 “293A. (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other provision of this Act- (a) No Government company; and (6) No other company which has been in existence for less than three financial years, shall contribute any amount or amounts, directly or indirectly, - (i) To any political party; or (ii) | For any political purpose to any person.