Some of the matters relating to employment in respect of which equality of opportunity has been guaranteed by Article 16(1) and (2) do not fall within the mischief of non-obstantive clause in Article 16(4).” C. Akhil Bharatiya Soshit Karamchari Sangh (Railway) vs. Union of India 100. Next is the case of Akhil Bharatiya Soshit Karamchari Sangh (Railway) represented by its Assistant General Secretary on behalf of the Association vs. Union of India and others,10 where a bench of 3 Learned Judges of this Court was considering the policy directives issued by the Railway Board introducing reservation in cases of selection as well as non-selection posts and other related issues regarding affirmative action. 101. Krishna Iyer, J. in paragraph 12, observed thus: “12. Granville Austin [Granville Austin : The Indian Constitution — Cornerstone of a Nation] quotes profusely from the Constituent Assembly proceedings to prove the goal of the Indian Constitution to be social revolution. Radhakrishnan, representing the broad consensus, said that: [Ibid, p. 27] “India must have a ‘socio-economic revolution’ designed not only to bring about the real satisfaction of the fundamental needs of the common man, but to go much deeper and bring about ‘a fundamental change in the structure of Indian society’.” 10 [1981] 2 SCR 185 : (1981) 1 SCC 246 1504 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 102. The Learned Judge refers to the speech of Dr. Radhakrishnan, representing the broad consensus, wherein he said that India must have a ‘socio-economic revolution’ designed not only to bring about the real satisfaction of the fundamental needs of the common man, but to go much deeper and bring about ‘a fundamental change in the structure of Indian society’. 103. Explaining the inter-relation between Articles 16(1) and 16(4), the Learned Judge observed thus: “21. The preamble which promises justice, liberty and equality of status and opportunity within the framework of secular, socialist republic projects a holistic perspective. Article 16 which guarantees equal opportunity for all citizens in matters of State service inherently implies equalisation as a process towards equality but also hastens to harmonize the realistic need to jack up “depressed” classes to overcome initial handicaps and join the national race towards progress on an equal footing and devotes Article 16(4) for this specific purpose. In a given situation of large social categories being submerged for long, the guarantee of equality with the rest is myth, not reality, unless it is combined with affirmative State action for equalisation geared to promotion of eventual equality. Article 16(4) is not a jarring note but auxiliary to fair fulfilment of Article 16(1). The prescription of Article 16(1) needs, in the living conditions of India, the concrete sanction of Article 16(4) so that those wallowing in the social quagmire are enabled to rise to levels of equality with the rest and march together with their brethren whom history had not so harshly hamstrung. To bury this truth is to sloganise Article 16(1) and sacrifice the facts of life. 22. This is not mere harmonious statutory construction of Article 16(1) and (4) but insightful perception of our constitutional culture, reflecting the current of resurgent India bent on making, out of a sick and stratified society of inequality and poverty, a brave new Bharat.