1176 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports people already detected as foreigners of the 1966-71 stream till date, as stated by Union of India in its affidavit, and should not continue any further. 89. The petitioners, in the alternative, submitted that the impugned provision may be struck down with prospective effect as the provision was inserted for a historic and limited purpose i.e., for granting citizenship to those immigrants who came in between the years 1966 and 1971. The petitioners relied upon the decision of this Court in Somaiya Organics (India) Ltd. & Another v. State of U.P. & Another reported in (2001) 5 SCC 519 and Synthetics and Chemicals Ltd. v. State of U.P. reported in (1990) 1 SCC 109 to buttress their submission. 90. Thus, having read into the line of reasoning as assigned by my learned brother Justice Surya Kant and also having regard to the specific submissions canvassed on behalf of the petitioners, more particularly, the submissions on temporal limits and manifest arbitrariness, the only question that needs to be addressed in my considered view is as under: "Whether the absence of any temporal limits in the scheme of Section 6A of the Citizenship Act has rendered the said provision manifestly arbitrary and thus violative of Article 14 of the Constitution? To put it in other words, whether the efflux of time has rendered Section 6A of the Citizenship Act temporally unreasonable and thus liable to be struck down in consequence of violation of Article 14?” V. ANALYSIS a. Scheme anD mechaniSm of Section 6a 91. Pursuant to the signing of the Assam Accord, the Citizenship Act was amended by the Parliament in to give effect to the mandate of the Accord and accordingly Section 6A came to be inserted by the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 1985. The Statement of Object and Reasons which accompanied the Citizenship (Amendment) Bill, 1985 reads as under: - "The core of the Memorandum of Settlement (Assam Accord) relates to the foreigners’ issue, since the agitation [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1177 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 launched by the A.A.S.U. arose out of their apprehensions regarding the continuing influx of foreign nationals into Assam and the fear about adverse effects upon the political, social, cultural and economic life of the State. Assam Accord being a political settlement, legislation is required to give effect to the relevant clauses of the Assam Accord relating to the foreigners’ issue. It is intended that all persons of Indian origin who came to Assam (including such of those whose names were included in the electoral rolls used for the purpose of General Election to the House of the People held in 1967) and who have been ordinarily resident in Assam ever since shall be deemed to be citizens of India as from the 1st day of January, 1966. Further, every person of Indian origin who came on or after the 1st January, 1966 but before the 25th March, 1971 from territories presently included in Bangladesh and who has been ordinarily resident in Assam ever since and who has been detected in accordance with the provisions of the Foreigners Act, 1946 and the Foreigners (Tribunals) , 1964 shall, upon registration, be deemed to be a citizen for all purposes as from the date of expiry of a period of ten years from the date of detection as a foreigner.