Similarly, for the post of Confidential Assistant Grade II, equivalent qualifications to those prescribed are acceptable. So is the case with the post of Lower Division Typist, where equivalent qualifications are explicitly shown to be acceptable. In effect, the failure to mention an ‘equivalent qualification’ being acceptable for the post of LDC clearly manifests the deliberate design and intent of the Rules of 2011 to limit the equivalence in that context only to the institution from which the Certificate in Data Entry and Office Automation is obtained and not to enlarge the eligibility by encompassing equivalent qualifications also. 17. Given the aforestated rule position in the Rules of 2011 and the verbatim reproduction of the same in the Notification dated 16.07.2012, it is clear and certain that a qualification equivalent to a Certificate in Data Entry and Office Automation from Lal Bahadur Shastri 334 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Centre for Science and Technology, Institute of Human Resource Development, is not acceptable but a Certificate in Data Entry and Office Automation from a Government approved similar/equivalent institution would be valid. Without the prescription of an equivalent qualification being recognized, the first part of Rule 10(a)(ii) of the Rules of 1958 would not be attracted, as it speaks of applicability only in cases where acceptance of equivalent qualifications is provided for in the Special Rules. On the other hand, the latter part of Rule 10(a)(ii) speaks of qualifications that presuppose acquisition of the prescribed lower qualification being treated as sufficient. It is the case of the appellants before us that they would fall in this category as they possess either a Diploma in Computer Applications or other higher qualifications, such as a Diploma in Computer Engineering/ Diploma in Data Entry and Console Operation/MCA/M.Sc. in Software Engineering, etc. 18. The Secretary of the KPSC filed an additional affidavit on 20.04.2024 before us, wherein he brazenly stated that the submission before the High Court earlier was never that qualifications such as DCA from all institutions would be rejected. This statement is incorrect on the face of it as the KPSC had categorically stated, both in its review petition as well as the grounds of appeal in the earlier round, that DCA qualification would not be accepted by it as a qualification for selection to the notified post. It had also asserted that it examined the issue in detail and decided that applications of persons with DCA qualification could not be accepted. 19. The KPSC then filed an additional affidavit on 02.09.2024. Therein, it was stated by its Secretary that recognition of DCA as a higher qualification was not a one-time isolated decision but a well- considered practice that the KPSC consistently applied in various selections over several years. Instances were given of the KPSC accepting DCA as a higher qualification in selections made during the years 2017, 2018, 2019, 2023 and 2024. He stated that this practice was consistently implemented by the KPSC even before issuance of the subject ranked list.