6. In the year 2023, appellant preferred Crl.O.P.No.5826 before the High Court of Judicature at Madras under Section 482 of the Cr.P.C seeking quashing of the chargesheet/final report No.2 of 2020 and the pending proceeding of Special SC No.42 of 2021 on the ground that once the appellant was tried by the Trial Court for an offence and the appellate court acquitted the appellant of all charges, the Court cannot such acquitted person to be tried again for the same offence on the same set of facts, after re-investigation. 7. Resultantly, the High Court vide and dated 4th July, 2023 while dismissing the CRL.O.P.No.5826 of 2023, directed the Trial Court to complete the trial and pass , within a period of 30 days from the date of this , without being influenced by any of the observations either made in the under Section 482 Cr.P.C or in the passed by the Division Bench in the Criminal Appeal 8. The High Court vide the impugned , after considering the contentions of the parties, gave the following findings while dismissing the Criminal Petition: (i) While considering the issue “whether the facts of the case attracts Section 300(i) of Cr.P.C?”, the High Court concluded that the Division Bench rightly directed the CBI to conduct a 9 hereinafter referred to as “CBI”. 1560 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports de novo investigation. The said was not challenged by the accused; he submitted himself to the trial. Having realized that the trial is proceeding against him, the petitioner (appellant herein) has filed the present petition on the baseless claim that Section 300 Cr.P.C. offers him protection, which, in fact, it does not. (ii) While relying on the decision of this Court in Satyajit Banerjee and Ors v. State of West of Bengal and Ors.,10 Ajay Kumar Ghoshal and Ors v. State of Bihar and Anr.,11 following Zahira Habibulla H. Sheikh v. State of Gujarat12 (well known as the ‘Best Bakery’ case), on the point that the Appellate court has power under Section 386(b)(i) of Cr.P.C. to retrial/ de novo trial if, it is satisfied that the omission or irregularities has caused miscarriage of justice. (iii) Section 300 (i) of Cr.P.C., qualified the protection only in case the of conviction or acquittal remains in force. Bare perusal of the Sub Sections (2) to (5) of Section 300 of Cr.P.C., makes it clear that explanation of “autrefois acquit”, is not absolute but subject to conditions and held that the acquittal in previous trial with a direction for re-investigation is not an acquittal in force. 9. This rejecting the appellant’s quashing petition is assailed before this Court. Although questioned here is this , challenge has also been laid to the direction to conduct de novo investigation to CBI. Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant submitted that: (i) Article 20 (2) of the Constitution of India explicitly stipulates that no person shall be prosecuted or punished for the same offence more than once, as the appellant has previously been acquitted on the same facts and for the same offence and, therefore, subsequent prosecution in impermissible; (ii) This protection against double jeopardy is further reinforced by the statutory provisions, including Section 300 of Cr.P.C., Section 40 of the Evidence Act, 1872, Section 71 of IPC and Section 26 of the General Clauses Act, 1897.