1963 Bijoy Kumar Moni v. Paresh Manna & Anr. 17. At this stage, we may also reproduce some of the findings recorded by the Sessions Court: “In the case in hand before the Trial Court according to the ocular version of DW 1, the appellant himself, he tried to convince that he did not take any money in his personal capacity. Now we find the clear picture about the transaction in respect of cheque no. 951764 from evidence of DW 2, the manager of UBI, Raghunathpur branch, the banker of the respondent/complainant, who was brought by the accused/ appellant to adduce evidence on his behalf. In course of the ocular evidence the original cheque no. 951764 dt. 28.02.06 amounting to Rs. 7,00,000/- was identified and proved by DW 2 and he admitted at the time of cross examination that on 28.02.06 the sum of Rs. 7,00,000/- was debited to the accused/ appellant. Throughout the trial the accused/appellant did not place any document or did not adduce any evidence that he, being the Director of Shilabati Hospital Private Ltd., had joint account with the company and that was operated by him for any transaction with that company. Being questioned about getting the confidence of the respondent/complainant to get the entire amount of Rs. 8,45,000/- and subsequent issuance of cheque bearing no. 997309 in discharging the liability of repayment, the accused/appellant took the plea that the said cheque was issued from the company as security of mortgage. But again to the utter surprise in course of trial no document of any mortgage was produced by him to establish the fact that the cheque bearing no. 997309 was issued in discharging the liability as security and the company was liable also for that ground. The appellant tried to shift the onus upon the respondent/ complainant, but he could not succeed to that effect. In my considered opinion I am constrained to take into account the plea of the accused that the company was also the accused of that case ad thus the ruling relied upon by the accused/ appellant do not render any support to the contention of him. In this regard I would like to refer the observation of Hon’ble Apex Court as reported in 2010 AIR SCW 4616 and as 1964 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports relied upon by the side of respondent. It has been observed by Hon’ble Apex Court that: “Negotiable Instruments Act (26 of 1881), S. 138- Dishonour of cheque Complaint- Tenable only against drawer of cheque-Cheque drawn by employee of appellant-company on his personal account- Even if it be for discharging dues of appellant- company and its Directors-Appellant-company and its Directors cannot be made liable under 5. 138.” From a bare reading of S.138 of NI Act the first and foremost ingredient is that the person who is to be made liable should be the drawer of the cheque and should have drawn the cheque on an account maintained by him with a banker for payment of any amount of money to another person from out of that account for discharging whole or part, of any debt or any liability.