02 was the Appellant as the Appellant typically has been doing so at odd hours. This creates doubt in the story of prosecution, as the presence of deceased and the Appellant in the house of Accused No. 02, at the same time on the day of the incident which was essential for commission of the murder of deceased by the Appellant in the said house, is not conclusively proved by the evidence led by the prosecution. 23. As regards the recoveries which have been affected especially with regard to the weapon of offence from the house of Accused No. 02, suffice to say that those being made not in the presence of independent witnesses, as has been so deposed by PW26 to PW28 and discussed above, the same cannot be relied upon. 24. Similar is the position with regard to the recovery of the bag from PW18, which contained the Appellant’s blood-stained clothes, as well as a blanket with blood stains and other articles. PW18, the witness of recovery, has expressed a doubt with regard to the contents of the bag. He has testified that the bag was handed over to him by the Appellant, 2-3 days prior to 23.08.1989, and on this very date a police constable came and had taken the bag, and he was not shown the contents of the said bag. Thus, as per this witness the bag in question was handed over by him to the police on 23.08.1989 508 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports whereas, as per the recovery memo, this bag was recovered and seized on 27.08.1989, when the police party came along with the Appellant in a police jeep and opened it showing the articles contained therein and the witness was made to sign the Mahazar. The said recovery which is alleged to have been made at the instance of Appellant, thus cannot be accepted as the same is not borne out from the evidence of the witness. Rather the possibility of the articles having been planted in the bag cannot be ruled out. 25. Additionally, relying on the testimony of PW20, the prosecution suggested that after killing Gouri, the Appellant left the town in between 5:00-5:30 AM on 17.08.1989. As per the case of the prosecution, the Appellant having disposed of the body in the paddy field, returned to the house of Accused No. 02 and thereafter left again for his destination. A perusal of the testimony of PW20, does not indicate as to from where the Appellant was actually coming from when this witness saw him. Additionally, this witness has stated that he had seen the Appellant from a distance, that too very early in the morning. Assuming this testimony to be true, it is not established that the Appellant was coming from the house of Accused No. 02. 26. Another aspect that further casts a doubt with regard to the identity of Appellant is that the clothes which are alleged to have been worn by the Appellant while going to the house of Accused No.