It is no more res integra that Section 18 of the Limitation Act is applicable to applications filed under Section 7 of the Code. In case the application under Section 7 is filed beyond the period of three years from the date of default and the financial creditor furnishes the required information relating to the acknowledgment of debt, in writing by the 8 [2021] 8 SCR 1061 : (2021) 10 SCC 330 9 [2021] 7 SCR 838 : (2022) 5 SCC 600 1470 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports corporate debtor, before the adjudicating authority, with such acknowledgment having taken place within the initial period of three years from the date of default, a fresh period of limitation commences and the application can be entertained, if filed within this extended period.” (emphasis supplied) 8. In view of the above referred principles, we will now consider the nuanced arguments advanced by Mr. Balbir Singh that there is no unequivocal, unambiguous and specific acknowledgement of debt owed to UCO Bank in the balance sheet entries of Corporate Debtor for the years 2017 and 2019. In the absence of clear demarcation as to what the Corporate Debtor owes to the UCO Bank, the said entries cannot be relied on for the purpose of extending the period of limitation in terms of Section 18 of the Limitation Act. Mr. Balbir Singh further argues that even if said entry is taken to be an acknowledgment of debt, the same cannot aid respondent No.1’s case since it fails to mention the name of financial creditor. 8.1 Mr. Partha Sil, counsel on behalf of respondent No. 1-Bank submitted that the Balance Sheets of a company are prepared in the prescribed statutory format as per Section 129, read with Schedule III of the Companies Act 2013, which does not provide for giving specific names of each and every Secured and Unsecured creditor. In support of his submission, Mr. Partha Sil referred to the in Asset Reconstruction Company (India) Ltd. v. Bishal Jaiswal10 where it was observed that there was no compulsion for Companies to make any particular admissions in the balance sheet, except for what is prescribed. 9. A three Judge Bench of this Court in Bishal Jaiswal (Supra) has addressed and clarified this issue by holding that; “35. A perusal of the aforesaid sections would show that there is no doubt that the filing of a balance sheet in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act is mandatory, any transgression of the same being punishable by law. However, what is of importance is that notes that are annexed to or forming part of such financial statements 10 [2021] 3 SCR 524 : (2021) 6 SCC 366. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1471 Vidyasagar Prasad v. UCO Bank & Anr. are expressly recognised by Section 134(7). Equally, the auditor’s report may also enter caveats with regard to acknowledgments made in the books of accounts including the balance sheet. A perusal of the aforesaid would show that the statement of law contained in Bengal Silk Mills Co. v. Ismail Golam Hossain Ariff, that there is a compulsion in law to prepare a balance sheet but no compulsion to make any particular admission, is correct in law as it would depend on the facts of each case as to whether an entry made in a balance sheet qua any particular creditor is unequivocal or has been entered into with caveats, which then has to be examined on a case by case basis to establish whether an acknowledgment of liability has, in fact, been made, thereby extending limitation under Section 18 of the Limitation Act.” (emphasis supplied) 10.