Thus, Triloki Nath (supra) is the leading for the proposition that 126 ibid, [YV Chandrachud J, 50]. “50. We are therefore of the opinion that though persons appointed directly and by promotion were integrated into a common class of Assistant Engineers, they could, for purposes of promotion to the cadre of Executive Engineers, be classified on the basis of educational qualifications. The Rule providing that graduates shall be eligible for such promotion to the exclusion of diploma- holders does not violate Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution and must be upheld.” 127 ibid, [YV Chandrachud J, 51]. “51. But we hope that this will not be construed as a charter for making minute and microcosmic classifications. Excellence is, or ought to be, the goal of all good governments and excellence and equality are not friendly bed-fellows. A pragmatic approach has therefore to be adopted in to harmonize the requirements of public services with the aspirations of public servants. But let us not evolve, through imperceptible extensions, a theory of classification which may subvert, perhaps submerge, the precious guarantee of equality. The eminent spirit of an ideal society is equality and so we must not be left to ask in wonderment: What after all is the operational residue of equality and equal opportunity?” 128 [1968] 1 SCR 185 1382 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports an integrated class can be further classified if there is intelligible differentia and if the yardstick used has a nexus to the object of the provision.129 85. It is not a given that appointees of different sources form an integrated class merely upon their appointment to one post. Even upon integration, the groups retain their separate identity for other purposes. In Katyani Sayal v. Union of India,130 this Court held that the Assistant Officers of the Railways recruited through a competitive examination and those recruited on the recommendation of the Union Public Service Commission do not form an integrated homogenous class because the objects of recruitment, the tenure and even the appointing authority are different. In Col AS Iyer v. V Balasubramanyam,131 a Constitution Bench of this Court upheld Survey of India promotion rules that reserved 50% more posts for engineers drawn from the military than for civilian engineers. Justice Krishna Iyer, writing for the Bench, observed that the army engineers never merged into the Survey of India service, along with their civilian counterparts. 86. The of this Court in DS Nakara v. Union of India132 has dwelt on the issue of sub-classification. In Nakara,133 a scheme which divided pensioners into two groups based on the date of retirement, to provide pension was challenged. A Constitution Bench held that pensioners formed a class. Notably, this Court, similar to Triloki Nath (supra), did not hold that sub-classification is impermissible merely because the pensioners constitute a class in themselves. As opposed to the inherent impermissibility of sub-classification, the particular basis of classification in that case namely, the date of retirement, was found to be arbitrary considering the objective of granting pensions.