This is expressly so having regard to Entry 33(a) – List 2168 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports III as any law regarding trade and commerce in, and the production, supply and distribution of the products of any industry where the control of such industry by the Union is declared by Parliament by law to be expedient in the public interest, and imported goods of the same kind as such products, would be subject to a law made as per Entry 52 – List I i.e., IDRA. This is because a Parliamentary law which is made by virtue of an Entry under List I has supremacy over any other law in List II or List III when they are irreconcilable or when the doctrine of occupied field applies respectively. 28. In Mineral Area Development Authority, I have voiced similar concerns as in the present case in the following words: “36.3 The Government of India Act, 1935 was the first comprehensive blueprint for legislative division of power in India between federal, provincial and concurrent spheres which resolved residuary powers to rest with the Federal Government. Though there are apparent similarities between the Government of India Act, 1935 and the Indian Constitution, yet factors, such as, regulation of economic competition and the development of twentieth century welfare States guided the constitutional blueprint for a model of federalism in which provincial initiative should not preclude national coordination, particularly, in the fields of socio-economic spheres. 36.4 According to Tillin, “in the case of India, political economy considerations intersect with the accommodation of diversity in shaping the resulting forms of federalism”. The question of a desirable balance between Central and the State Governments has to be viewed in the context of the country continuing to confront the need to promote economic growth while upholding and expanding social rights. Sarkaria Commission Report on Centre-State Relations: 37. Resolved to study and reform the existing arrangements between the Union and the States in an evolving socio- economic scenario, the Ministry of Home Affairs vide dated 09.06.1983 constituted a Commission under the Chairmanship of Justice R.S. Sarkaria with Shri B. Sivaraman and Dr. S.R. Sen having due regard to the [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2169 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons framework of the Constitution. At this stage, reference to Section 5, Chapter II – Legislative Relations of the Report of the Sarkaria Commission (“Sarkaria Commission Report”) may be of assistance: “2.5.21 In every Constitutional system having two levels of government with demarcated jurisdiction, contents respecting power are inevitable. A law passed by a State legislature on a matter assigned to it under the Constitution though otherwise valid, may impinge upon the competence of the Union or vice versa. Simultaneous operation side-by-side of two inconsistent laws, each of equal validity, will be an absurdity. The rule of Federal Supremacy is a technique to avoid such absurdity, resolve conflicts and ensure harmony between the Union and State laws. This principle, therefore, is indispensable for the successful functioning of any federal or quasi-federal Constitution.