200 Ibid. 1588 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports exist; for example, Afghanistan shows a tenfold difference in child marriage rates across its provinces.201 Although child marriage is less common among boys, it still occurs, with nearly 1 in 10 young men in Nepal reporting childhood marriages.202 Despite these challenges, South Asia is recognized for its progress in reducing child marriage rates, showcasing a potential pathway for other regions facing similar issues. 138. The SAARC Charter,203 established in 1985, lays the foundation for regional cooperation among the eight South Asian countries— Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Maldives, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka. It emphasizes the need for collaboration in various sectors, including social development, which encompasses the protection of children’s rights. The Convention on Regional Arrangements for the Promotion of Child Welfare in South Asia, adopted in 2002,204 specifically addresses the alarming prevalence of child marriage in the region. This Convention recognizes child marriage as a violation of children’s rights and advocates for legislation to set a minimum marriage age, promote awareness, and protect children from harmful practices. 139. The Convention reinforces the commitment of SAARC member states to create a protective environment for children by calling for effective measures to combat child marriage. This includes the establishment of monitoring systems, the promotion of education, and the mobilization of community resources to challenge cultural norms that perpetuate child marriage. C. Rights based framework 140. Child marriage is forced marriage and international law recognises it as such. Early marriage, or child marriage involves children under 201 Ibid. 202 Ibid. 203 The Charter of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation; The objectives of the association are to: a) promote the welfare and quality of life of the peoples of South Asia; b) accelerate economic growth, social progress, and cultural development, ensuring individuals can live with dignity and realize their full potential; c) enhance collective self-reliance among South Asian countries; d) foster mutual trust, understanding, and appreciation of shared challenges; e) encourage collaboration and mutual assistance in economic, social, cultural, technical, and scientific areas; (f) strengthen cooperation with other developing countries; g) collaborate in international forums on common interests; h) engage with international and regional organizations with similar goals 204 The Convention on Regional Arrangements for the Promotion of Child Welfare in South Asia, 2002. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1589 Society for Enlightenment and Voluntary Action & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. eighteen years. The majority of child marriages involve minor girls. The joint General Recommendation and Comment on harmful practices from the CRC and the CEDAW Committee states205: “A child marriage is considered to be a form of forced marriage, given that one and/or both parties have not expressed full, free, and informed consent. As a matter of respecting the child’s evolving capacities and autonomy in making decisions that affect her or his life, a marriage of a mature, capable child below 18 years of age may be allowed in exceptional circumstances, provided that the child is at least 16 years of age and that such decisions are made by a judge based on legitimate exceptional grounds defined by law and on the evidence of maturity, without deference to culture and tradition.” (emphasis supplied) 141.