52. Per contra, in the case of D.S. Reddy (supra), the Court held that a legislation pertaining to a single individual which was not based on a reasonable basis for grouping one person as a class by itself and that such a classification was not founded on an intelligible differentia and as such was violative of Article 14 of the Constitution. Similarly, in the case of P. Venugopal (supra), the Court struck down a legislation which was made singly applicable to the appellant therein being violative of Article 14 of the Constitution. 53. It can thus be seen that wherever this Court has upheld the legislation affecting the single entity, institution or undertaking, it found that it was done in emergent and extreme circumstances preceded by enquiries, parliamentary debates, etc. It was done when the legislature took into consideration the relevant material and found it expedient to do so. 54. It is also settled by this Court that there will be a presumption with regard to the validity of the enactment and the burden would be on the person who challenges the same. In the case of Chiranjit Lal Chowdhuri (supra), the majority found that quite apart from not discharging the burden of hostile discrimination, the petitioners therein had not even averred with regard to such a discrimination by [2024] 10 S.C.R. 481 Khalsa University and Another v. The State of Punjab and Another a statement on affidavit. No doubt that Shastri and Das, JJ. disagreed and held that in such cases asking the petitioner to discharge the burden would be asking him to do an impossibility. 55. In the light of the aforesaid legal position, we have to examine the present case. 56. Undisputedly, the Impugned Act is a single entity legislation repealing the 2016 Act by which the Khalsa University was established. The only reasoning as could be found in the SOR of the Impugned Act is that the Khalsa College, Amritsar has, over a period of time, become a significant icon of Khalsa Heritage and the appellant was likely to shadow and damage its character and pristine glory. 57. In the writ petition filed before the High Court, the appellants have specifically placed on record their challenge on the ground of discrimination which reads thus: “There are 16 apart from the petitioner private Universities are operating in the State of Punjab. These are detailed as under: - (i) Shri Guru Granth Sahib World University, Fatehgarh Sahib. (ii) Chandigarh University, Chandigarh. (iii) Desh Bhagat University, Mandi Gobindgarh. (iv) RIMT University, Mandi Gobindgarh. (v) Rayat Bahara University, Mohali. (vi) Adesh Medical University, Bathinda. (vii) Akal University Bathinda. (viii) Guru Kanshi University, Bathinda. (ix) Thapar University, Patiala (x) CT University, Ludhiana . (xi) Chitkara University, Rajpura (xii) Khalsa University, Amritsar (xiii) Shri Guru Ramdas Medical University, Amritsar. 482 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (xiv) LPU, Jalandhar. (xv) D.A.V. Jalandhar. (xvi) GNA University, Phagwara. (xvii) Baba Bhag Singh University, Padhiana Sahib, Phagwara. All the private Universities apart from the Thapar University, Lovely Professional University have been established in the past 10 years.