The changes are shown in bold in the above Table. 209. A “proper officer” has to merely verify the entries made in the Bill(s) of Entry under Section 46 (in case of import) or Shipping Bill(s) under Section 50 (in case of export). The “Proper Officer” may examine or test imported goods or export goods or such part thereof as may be necessary. If required, such an officer can only re-assess the goods under Section 17 of the Act. Thus, a “Proper Officer” under Section 17(1) & 17(4) of [2024] 12 S.C.R. 269 Commissioner of Customs v. M/s Canon India Pvt. Ltd. the Act is merely required to re-assess the imported goods or export goods where he differs with the self assessment of an importer or an exporter. This important change was not brought to the attention of the Hon’ble Supreme Court in Canon India Pvt Ltd Case. 210. As mentioned above, an importer or an exporter is merely required to make a self-assessment in the Bill(s) of Entry or Shipping Bill(s) as may be in the case of import or export respectively and file the same. 211. Officers who are appointed as “Proper Officers” for the purpose of Section 17 of the Customs Act, 1962 are “Officers of Customs” like any “Officer of Customs” as per Section 3 and 4 read with notification issued under these provisions. There is delegation of functions by the Board and senior officers to different class of officers by the Board. This is an internal arrangement with a view for better tax administration. Thus, officers of Directorate of Revenue Intelligence are also one among the class “Officers of Customs” like any Officer of Customs as per Section 3 and 4 read with notification issued for the said purpose are competent to issue show cause notice. The “proper officer” at the Port at the time of clearance of import or export, merely reassess the self-assessment already made on the Bill(s) of Entry and/or Shipping Bill(s). They are normally not assigned with the function to adjudicate Show Cause Notices and/or Demand Notices under the various provisions of the Customs Act, 1962. 212. With effect from, 08.04.2011, there was no question of assessment of Bill(s) of Entry /Shipping Bill(s) by a “proper officer”. There is only self assessment by an importer or an exporter. There could be only re-assessment of Bill of Entry(s) or the Shipping Bill(s) by the “proper officer” under Section 17 of the Customs Act,1962. 213. If the “proper officer” was inclined to disagree with the self assessment made by an importer or an 270 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports exporter as the case may be, the “proper officer” could make a re-assessment and pass a speaking under Section 17(5) of the Customs Act, 1962. 214. If the self assessment is accepted, the “proper officer” appointed under Section 17 of the Customs Act, 1962 becomes “functus officio” under the scheme of the Act and the Notification issued for the aforesaid purpose. 215.