switched on and without any markers or indicators being placed around the stationary vehicle so as to warn the incoming vehicular traffic. This omission by the person in control of the said truck was in clear violation of law. The accident took place on a highway where the permissible speed limits are fairly high. In such a situation, it would be imprudent to hold that the driver of a vehicle, travelling through the highway in the dead of the night in pitch dark conditions, would be able to make out a stationary vehicle lying in the middle of the road within a reasonable distance so as to apply the brakes and avoid the collision. The situation would be compounded by the headlights of the vehicles coming from the opposite direction and make the viewing of the stationary vehicle even more difficult. Thus, the conclusion drawn by the Courts below that the driver of the car could have averted the accident by applying the brakes and hence, he was equally negligent and contributed to the accident on the application of principle of last opportunity is ex-facie perverse and cannot be sustained. Hence, it is a fit case warranting exercise of this Court’s powers under Article 136 of the Constitution of India to interfere with the concurrent finding of facts. 41. We, therefore, hold that the person in control of the offending truck insured by respondent No. 2-Insurer, was fully responsible for the negligence leading to the accident. 42. As a consequence, the deduction of 50% of compensation awarded to the appellant-claimants on account of contributory negligence, as directed by the Tribunal and affirmed by the High Court, cannot be sustained. The finding recorded by the Courts below on this issue is reversed as being perverse and unsustainable in the facts as well as in law. Resultantly, it is directed that there shall be no deduction from the compensation payable to the appellant-claimants who shall be entitled to the full compensation as assessed by the Tribunal and modified by the High Court by the impugned . 43. It is further directed that respondent No. 2-Insurer shall be jointly and severally liable along with the owner of the offending truck to indemnify the awards. 44. The appeals are accordingly allowed. No costs. Civil Appeals @ SLP(Civil) Nos. 17692-17693 of 2023 45. Leave granted. 442 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 46. In these appeals, the appellant-Malutai10 has challenged the apportionment of the compensation awarded by the Tribunal between the appellant and the co-claimant.11 Modification in the apportionment is sought on the ground that the co-claimant Smt. Sushma has remarried after the claim was decided and thus, she cannot claim equal share in the compensation. 47. Having considered the submissions advanced on behalf of the parties, we are not inclined to interfere in the apportionment of the compensation between the appellant-Malutai and co-claimant (respondent No.5), as directed by the Tribunal and affirmed by the High Court. Thus, the said prayer of the appellant-Malutai is declined.