iii. PW-3 admitted that there were number of buses plying on the route between Lingasgur to Shorapur and Gulbarga. However, his version, that he could catch the bus only on the next day at 6.00 A.M., is artificial. He could have availed the transport facility on 28.06.1997 itself after the assailants had left. iv. PW-3 states that his relatives are residing in Nagaral village, which is 4 km from the scene, but he did not go and inform them. v. PW-3 did not inform the people at Devpura or the passengers plying in the bus in which he travelled to [2024] 2 S.C.R. 297 Mallappa & Ors. v. State of Karnataka go to Gurugunte. From there, he catched another bus to Aidbhavi village. The incident took place around 4 P.M. and it took more than 18 hours for PW-3 to inform the father of the deceased PW-2. In the meanwhile, although he had opportunity, he did not inform the out-post police, which must have come in the course of his journey from Devpura to Aidbhavi. vi. PW-3 admitted that he was conscious that he should get PW-4 treated after the incident, yet he did not make any sincere effort to get him treated. The deceased and PW-4 were assaulted by the accused. There was no reason for the accused persons to not assault PW-3. His version that he escaped and hid behind the bushes is artificial. Further, the evidence of PW-4 that he was unconscious till he was taken to hospital is artificial. There is no evidence to show the nature of treatment given to PW4 and to show his physical condition at Gulbarga Hospital. vii. The father’s name of PW-4 is shown as Siddaramegowda, whereas in the MLC register the name of the father of PW-4 is shown as Narasappa. viii. In the wound certificate, it is mentioned that PW-4 “self admitted” at the hospital. The doctor PW-8 states that PW-4 was unconscious. In the wound certificate of PW-4, it is stated that the assault took place in the night. Whereas, the FIR shows that the incident took place around 4 P.M. in the day hours. The Trial Court finds that the evidence of PW-3 and PW-4 is incredible and thus, acquitted the accused. 14. The High Court, in appeal, after re-appreciating the evidence on record, held that the post-mortem report supported the case of the prosecution that the death of Marthandappa was homicidal. It further held that the prosecution has successfully proved the motive and occurrences of incidents on the basis of evidence of PW-3 and PW-4. The High Court further held that Wound Certificate of PW-4 corroborated the evidence of PW-4 regarding the injuries caused to him in the assault. 298 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 15. On the question of credibility, the High Court held that PW-4 is an injured witness and he has categorically stated that A1, A2, A7 and A8 assaulted the deceased with clubs on the head and on back, and A3, A4 and A6 assaulted the deceased with axe.