As already noted, such conditions formed part of Chapter Note 2 in Chapter VI of the First Schedule itself, prior to the 2005 amendment, but after that amendment, whereby the said Chapter Note was brought into conformity with Chapter Note 3 in Chapter 33 of the HSN, the Explanatory/General Notes in the HSN in relation to the said Chapter Note would have to be fully satisfied. In effect, not only must the coconut oil be suitable for use as ‘hair oil’, but it must also be put in packaging sold in retail for such particular use, i.e., as hair oil. The phrase ‘suitable for such use’ under Headings 3303 to 3307 in Chapter Note 3 would have to be read in conjunction with the Explanatory Notes thereto, which categorically state that such packaging must be accompanied with labels, literature or other indications that the product is intended for use as a cosmetic or toilet preparation or it must be put in a form clearly specialized to such use - as in the case of acetone marketed in small bottles, along with an applicator brush, indicating its use as nail polish remover. [2024] 12 S.C.R. 919 Commissioner of Central Excise, Salem v. M/s Madhan Agro Industries (India) Private Ltd. 41. The mere fact that coconut oil is also capable of being put to use as a cosmetic or toilet preparation, by itself, would not be sufficient to exclude such oil from the ambit of ‘coconut oil’ and subject it to classification as ‘hair oil’ as ‘coconut oil’ is name-specific. It is not in dispute that the packaging of the coconut oil in the cases on hand clearly demonstrated that it was being sold as ‘edible oil’ and all parameters that had to be met in that regard were duly complied with. Edible coconut oil requires to be packed in containers using edible grade plastic. The coconut oil so sold must satisfy the requirements of the Food Safety and Standards Act, 2006, and be packaged in conformity with the Edible Oils Packaging (Regulations) , 1998. Further, edible oil would have a shorter shelf life than oil meant for cosmetic purposes and must meet the Indian Standards Specifications prescribed for edible oil which are different from the standards for hair oil. Significantly, the Standards of Weights and Measures (Packaged Commodities) Rules, 1977, provide that ‘edible oil’ can be packed in specified sizes of 50 ml, 100 ml, 200 ml, 500 ml, 1 litre or 2 litres. 42. Shanti Coconut Oil, produced and marketed by Madhan Agro Industries (India) Pvt. Ltd., bore ‘Agmark’ certification from the concerned authorities to qualify as a Grade-I coconut oil, fit for human consumption. The fact that such edible coconut oil was sold in smaller containers would not, by itself, be indicative of it being packaging of a kind fit for use as ‘hair oil’. One may choose to buy one’s cooking oil in small quantities, be it for economic or for health reasons or due to the inclination to use fresh oil in one’s food preparation, and the smaller size of the packaging of such oil cannot be taken to mean that it is to be used as ‘hair oil’ without any pointer to that effect, be it by way of a label or literature or by any other indication that it is to be used as ‘hair oil’.