Digital Supreme Court Reports Amendment) Act, 2003, but was not notified and was omitted by the Constitution (One Hundred and First Amendment) Act, 2016 with effect from 16.09.2016. In the circumstances, we observe that the Finance Act, 1994 is relatable to Entry 97 of List I of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution. Subsequently, vide the same Constitution (One Hundred and First Amendment) Act, 2016, Article 246A was inserted as special provision with respect to goods and services tax. 6.4 For the sake of completion, it would also be relevant to refer to Entries 33 and 34 List II. Entry 62 List II (State List) as it stood then, deals with taxes on luxuries including taxes on entertainment, amusement, betting and gambling, etc. The said Entry has subsequently been amended with effect from 16.09.2016. However, it is not necessary to extract the amended Entry as these appeals pertain to the period prior to 01.07.2010. Entries 33 and 34 of List II are the regulatory Entries, which read as under: “33. Theaters and dramatic performances; cinemas subject to the provisions of entry 60 of List I; sports, entertainments and amusements. 34. Betting and gambling.” 6.5 Reverting to the Finance Act, 1994 and particularly Chapter V which deals with Service Tax, the following provisions, which are relevant for the purpose of this controversy, could be extracted as under: “65. Definitions.—In this Chapter, unless the context otherwise requires.— xxx 65(19) “business auxiliary service” means any service in relation to,— (i) promotion or marketing or sale of goods produced or provided by or belonging to the client; or (ii) promotion or marketing of service provided by the client; or Explanation.- For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that for the purpose of this [2024] 8 S.C.R. 839 K. Arumugam v. Union of India & Others Etc. sub-clause, “service in relation to promotion or marketing of service provided by the client” includes any service provided in relation to promotion or marketing of games of chance, organized, conducted or promoted by the client, in whatever form or by whatever name called, whether or not conducted online, including lottery, lotto, bingo; (iii) any customer care service provided on behalf of the client; or (iv) procurement of goods or services, which are inputs for the client; or Explanation.- For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that for the purposes of this sub-clause, “inputs” means all goods or services intended for use by the client; (v) production or processing of goods for, or on behalf of the client; or (vi) provision of service on behalf of the client; or (vii) a service incidental or auxiliary to any activity specified in sub-clauses (i) to (vi), such as billing issue or collection or recovery of cheques, payments, maintenance of accounts and remittance, inventory management, evaluation or development of prospective customer or vendor, public relation services, management or supervision, and includes services as a commission agent, but does not include any activity that amounts to “manufacture” of excisable goods.