However, he stated that at about 4 p.m. on the date of the incident, appellant no. 2 picked up his father from his house. PW-2 (Md. Asraful Islam) was declared as hostile. 12. Now, we come to the evidence of PW-3 (another son of the deceased). He deposed that appellant no. 2 came to their house at 4 p.m. on the date of the incident. The witness stated that the deceased was an influential Congress party leader. He stated that there was a meeting of Congress at Chapori Centre, and therefore, he took the deceased on his motorcycle. He stated that at 6.30 p.m., appellant no. 2 brought his father. He claims that he followed them on his bicycle. He stated that he heard a hue and cry from a distance of about 30 meters away from L.P School. After going ahead, he saw appellant no. 3 running towards the road with a sharp weapon in his hand. He stated that he saw appellant no. 3 in the flash of the headlight of the motorcycle. He claimed that he saw appellant no. 2 leaving by motorcycle. Then he found the body of his father. PW-3 was sought to be contradicted in the cross-examination based on his prior statement recorded under Section 161 of CrPC. A suggestion was given in his cross-examination that he did not tell the police that at about 6.30 p.m., appellant no. 2 returned with his father on a motorcycle. Moreover, a suggestion was given that he did not tell the police that he followed them on his bicycle. Another suggestion was given to the witness that he did not tell the police that while coming back from a meeting on a bicycle, he saw in the flash of the headlight of a motorcycle that appellant no. 3 was running away and leaving the place with a weapon. At this stage, it is necessary to look at the cross-examination of PW-11 (Sri Bidyut Bikash Baruah), the Investigating Officer. In the cross-examination, he stated thus: “PW3 Afazuddin Choudhury has not stated before me that he also went to attend the meeting. This witness has [2024] 6 S.C.R. 33 Alauddin & Ors. v. The State of Assam & Anr. also not stated before me that at about 6:30 p.m. accused Kadir brought his father back from the meeting in a motor cycle and he also followed them after 10 minutes. This witness has also not stated before me that hue(sic) he was returning in his bicycle he saw, in the light of bike, that Nurul was running with a weapon in his hand.” Hence, the case which he made out in the examination-in-chief that he saw appellant no. 3 running away with the weapon in his hand in the flash of the motorcycle’s headlight is an omission. This omission is very significant, which amounts to contradiction. Therefore, his evidence remains material only insofar as his statement about appellant no. 2 taking his father on a motorbike at 4.00 p.m.