In this regard the State concerned will have to show in each case the existence of the compelling reasons, namely, backwardness, inadequacy of representation and overall administrative efficiency before making provision for reservation. As stated above, the impugned provision is an enabling provision. The State is not bound to make reservation for SCs/STs in matters of promotions. However, if they wish to exercise their discretion and make such provision, the State has to collect quantifiable data showing backwardness of the class and inadequacy of representation of that class in 1544 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports public employment in addition to compliance with Article 335. It is made clear that even if the State has compelling reasons, as stated above, the State will have to see that its reservation provision does not lead to excessiveness so as to breach the ceiling limit of 50% or obliterate the creamy layer or extend the reservation indefinitely. 124. Subject to the above, we uphold the constitutional validity of the Constitution (Seventy-seventh Amendment) Act, 1995; the Constitution (Eighty-first Amendment) Act, 2000; the Constitution (Eighty-second Amendment) Act, 2000 and the Constitution (Eighty-fifth Amendment) Act, 2001.” 164. It could thus be seen that in M. Nagaraj (supra), the Court applied the test of creamy layer and the requirement for collection of quantifiable data showing backwardness of the class and inadequacy of representation of that class even insofar as the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes are concerned. H. Jarnail Singh vs. Lachhmi Narain Gupta 165. The correctness of the decision in M. Nagaraj was referred to the Constitution Bench in the case of Jarnail Singh and others vs. Lachhmi Narain Gupta and others.15 The Constitution Bench in the said case considered two issues: firstly, with regard to the correctness of the view taken in M. Nagaraj about the requirement of collecting quantifiable data showing backwardness and inadequacy of representation of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in public employment; and secondly, with regard to applicability of the creamy layer principle even to the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. 166. The Court, insofar as the first issue is concerned, held that the requirement of collection of quantifiable data on backwardness and inadequacy of representation of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in public employment is concerned, is contrary to the 9-Judge Bench in the case of Indra Sawhney and liable to be struck down to that extent. However, insofar as the second issue regarding making the creamy layer principle applicable even to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes is concerned, the Court observed thus: 15 [2018] 10 SCR 663 : (2018) 10 SCC 396 [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1545 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. “26. The whole object of reservation is to see that Backward Classes of citizens move forward so that they may march hand in hand with other citizens of India on an equal basis. This will not be possible if only the creamy layer within that class bag all the coveted jobs in the public sector and perpetuate themselves, leaving the rest of the class as backward as they always were.