(v) that one of the criteria that is required to be considered which was highlighted in Laxman Naskar is the possibility of reformation and recidivism. That these factors have been given no consideration as there is no mention of the respondent- convicts’ behavior while in prison, as well as offences committed while out on parole/furlough. That a case has been registered against one of the respondent-convicts under Sections 304, 306 and 354 IPC while on parole. That a range of punishments were imposed on the respondent-convicts in prison hence, the possibility of recidivism cannot be entirely ruled out. (vi) that there is a real and grave apprehension of danger to the victim if the respondent-convicts are released into society. This has been reflected in the recommendation of Superintendent of Police, Dahod as well as the questions raised by the Principal and Sessions Judge, Panchmahal at Godhra in the Jail Advisory Committee meeting dated 26.05.2022. (vii) that remission must be granted for each particular count of life imprisonment, as all of these are superimposed over each other. Remission granted qua one sentence does not automatically extend to the others as well. That a generic, mechanical and unreasoned blanket of remission has been passed by the respondent-State, as remission is not stated to have been granted for all of the life sentences of each respondent-convict. (viii) that Section 435(1)(a) of the CrPC makes it mandatory for the State Government to consult the Central Government regarding the exercise of power to grant remission. But the en-masse and non-speaking nature of the sanction granted by the Central [2024] 1 S.C.R. 803 Bilkis Yakub Rasool v. Union of India & Others Government, merely conveys approval of the premature release of the respondent-convicts, which do not meet the requirement of ‘consultation’. Reliance was again placed on Laxman Naskar. (ix) further, the opinion of the Sessions Judge, Panchmahal, Godhra is of a casual and perfunctory character, that doesn’t pay heed to the heinous nature of the crimes committed. (x) it was further submitted that the remission s having thus been established as unreasoned, untenable and vitiated by arbitrariness and mala fides, there is a need for judicial intervention in the same. 10. Learned counsel for the petitioner in Writ Petition(Crl.) No.319 of 2022, Ms. Aparna Bhat submitted that the aforesaid writ petition has been filed purely in the interest of the general public and out of concern for the impact on society if the respondents-convicts were released. That there is no political agenda behind the filing of this writ petition by the petitioner, who is a member of a national political party and an advocate for women’s rights. 11. Sri Mohammad Nizamuddin Pasha, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioner in Writ Petition (Crl.) No.403 of 2022 submitted that the cases which are at stages prior to conviction. i.e., investigation and trial must be treated as being on a different footing as guilt would not have been established and the fair trial rights of the accused still subsisted.