631 Sukanya Shantha v. Union of India & Ors. with the prisoners, the lawyer must be called to understand the concern and best respond to it. If need be, where deemed appropriate by the Secretary, DLSA, the concern lawyer may be removed from the panel, and a fresh appointment initiated. c) To check the prison conditions with respect to health, sanitation, food and hygiene in addition to access to legal representation. If any such concerns are raised, the same shall be shared with the Chairman of the DLSA, Member Secretary of SLSA as well as the Board of Visitors who have the authority to raise it to the appropriate authority. d) To track whether there are any instances of non-production at court hearings, be it physical or virtual. If such instances are reported, take immediate steps to rectify such misgivings. e) To ensure that concerns of vulnerable category of prisoners are heard and responded to. f) To ensure and check the documentation and reporting practices of the Clinic. g) To ensure that the PLVs and JVLs are able to perform their duties effectively, and have access to the prison at all times. They should ensure that no unnecessary hindrances are set forward from the prison officers, which may create hurdle in working of the PLAC. 4.3 Periodicity of visits by the Chairman, DLSA (District & Sessions Judge): The Chairman, DLSA (District & Sessions Judge) shall visit the Prison Legal Aid Clinics at least once in three months. He would also visit the premises of the prison to understand any concerns regarding prison conditions, and also enquire into the functioning of the 632 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports PLAC. They may also interact with prisoners to received feedback for services provided. 4.4 Role of the Chairman, DLSA during prison visits: The Chairman DLSA would undertake to inspect the condition of the prisons, communicate with the inmates to understand their concerns with respect to their regimen, food, sanitation hygiene etc. in addition to access to legal representation. In circumstances where concerns are raised, the same may be raised in the meetings with the Secretary, DLSA to take measures to combat them. Specialized formats for documentation of prison visits by the Chairman may be prepared by the SLSA.”309 The inspections have to be undertaken every month by the Secretary, DLSA, and quarterly by the Chairperson, DLSA. During these inspections, the authority inspecting is supposed to look at the overall condition of the prisons. 225. Apart from this, a Board of Visitors is constituted, as per the Model Prison Manual 2016, at a district level. The Board comprises of: “29.03 The Board of Visitors shall comprise the following official members: a) The District Judge at the District level, or the Sub- Divisional Judicial Magistrate exercising Jurisdiction, at Sub-Division level b) The District Magistrate, at the District level or Sub- Divisional officer at Sub- Divisional level c) District Superintendent of Police d) The Chief Medical Officer of the Health Department, at the District level or the Sub-Divisional Medical Officer at Sub-Division level e) The Executive Engineer, PWD at the District level, or Assistant Engineer PWD at Sub-Divisional level 309 Rule 4, NALSA Standard Operating Procedures on Access to Legal Aid Services to Prisoners and Functioning of the Prison Legal Aid Clinics, 2022, https://nalsa.gov.in/acts-rules/guidelines/nalsa-sop- functioning-of-prison-legal-aid-clinics-2022 [2024] 10 S.C.R.