Thus, when this Court directed the issuance of the Sale Certificate it necessarily excluded the right to pursue the DRT proceedings. (viii) Mere reference to the pendency of the DRT Proceedings in the by no means could lead to the inference that this Court had preserved the rights of the Borrower herein to pursue the same. One cannot assume or infer any right by referring to a stray sentence here and a stray sentence there in the . It is trite that s of courts are not to be construed as statutes. ii. Applicability of Lis Pendens in the absence of any registration as required under the State Amendment to Section 52 of the TPA. 155. The term “lis pendens” as explained in the Law Lexicon is as under: - “Lis means a suit, action controversy, or dispute, and lis pendens means a pending suit. The doctrine denotes those principles and rules of law which define and limit the operation of the common-law maxim pendente lite nihil innovetur, that is, pending the suit nothing should be changed. [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1709 Celir LLP v. Mr. Sumati Prasad Bafna & Ors. A pending suit. As soon as proceedings are commenced to recover or charge some specific property [Ex parte Thornton (1867)2 Ch.p.178] there is “lis pendens” - a pending suit, the consequence of which is that until the litigation is at an end neither litigant can deal with the property to the prejudice of the other.” 156. As per the Doctrine of lis pendens, nothing new can be introduced during the pendency of a petition and if at all anything new is introduced, the same would also be subject to the final outcome of the petition, which would decide the rights and obligations of the parties. 157. The doctrine of lis pendens is duly recognized in Section 52 of the TPA which states that during the pendency in any court of any suit in which any right to immovable property is directly and specifically in question, the property cannot be transferred or otherwise dealt with by any party to the suit or proceedings. The explanation to the provision states that for the purposes of the Section, the pendency of a suit or proceedings shall be deemed to commence from the date of the presentation of the plaint or institution of the proceeding in a Court, and shall continue until the suit or proceeding is disposed by a “final decree or ” and complete satisfaction of the is obtained, unless it has become unobtainable by reason of the expiry of any period of limitation. The said provision reads as under: - “52. Transfer of property pending suit relating thereto. — During the pendency in any Court having authority within the limits of India excluding the State of Jammu and Kashmir or established beyond such limits by the Central Government of any suit or proceeding which is not collusive and in which any right to immovable property is directly and specifically in question, the property cannot be transferred or otherwise dealt with by any party to the suit or proceeding so as to affect the rights of any other party thereto under any decree or which may be made therein, except under the authority of the Court and on such terms as it may impose.