It is further submitted that if appreciation of evidence leads to two possible views, then the decision of the Trial Court could not be reversed merely because another view was possible. 20. Per contra, it is submitted by the respondent State that the Trial Court did not appreciate the evidence in a proper manner which led to the acquittal of the accused persons. It is further submitted that the testimonies of PW-3 and PW-4 were incorrectly rejected by the Trial Court despite the fact that one of them was an eye witness of the entire incident and the other one was a victim of the assault. It is further submitted that once a grave error is found in the decision of the Trial Court, the High Court is fully empowered to re-appreciate the entire evidence and reach a different conclusion. 21. We have heard the rival submissions of the parties and have also carefully gone through the record. 22. We may now proceed to answer the principal question i.e. whether the High Court was correct in reversing the of acquittal of the Trial Court and thereby convicting the accused persons under Section 302 IPC. 23. At the outset, it is relevant to note that accused Nos. 1 to 5 are brothers inter se and accused no. 6 to 8 are relatives of accused Nos. 1 to 5, residing at Aidbhavi, Taluk Lingasgur. The complainant PW-2 (Narsappa) is the father of the deceased Marthandappa and PW-4 and PW-3 are the nephews of PW2, and they are residing at village Aidbhavi. The accused persons are not unknown to the victims and complainant. 24. We may firstly discuss the position of law regarding the scope of intervention in a criminal appeal. For, that is the foundation of this challenge. It is the cardinal principle of criminal jurisprudence that there is a presumption of innocence in favour of the accused, unless 300 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports proven guilty. The presumption continues at all stages of the trial and finally culminates into a fact when the case ends in acquittal. The presumption of innocence gets concretized when the case ends in acquittal. It is so because once the Trial Court, on appreciation of the evidence on record, finds that the accused was not guilty, the presumption gets strengthened and a higher threshold is expected to rebut the same in appeal. 25. No doubt, an of acquittal is open to appeal and there is no quarrel about that. It is also beyond doubt that in the exercise of appellate powers, there is no inhibition on the High Court to re-appreciate or re-visit the evidence on record. However, the power of the High Court to re-appreciate the evidence is a qualified power, especially when the under challenge is of acquittal. The first and foremost question to be asked is whether the Trial Court thoroughly appreciated the evidence on record and gave due consideration to all material pieces of evidence. The second point for consideration is whether the finding of the Trial Court is illegal or affected by an error of law or fact.