…” (Emphasis supplied) 28. This Court in Revajeetu Builders and Developers v. Narayanaswamy and Sons & Ors., reported in (2009) 10 SCC 84, laid down some basic principles which the Court should keep in mind while allowing or rejecting the application for amendment. Para 63 of the said reads thus: “63. On critically analysing both the English and Indian cases, some basic principles emerge which ought to be taken into consideration while allowing or rejecting the application for amendment: (1) whether the amendment sought is imperative for proper and effective adjudication of the case; (2) whether the application for amendment is bona fide or mala fide; 1904 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports (3) the amendment should not cause such prejudice to the other side which cannot be compensated adequately in terms of money; (4) refusing amendment would in fact lead to injustice or lead to multiple litigations; (5) whether the proposed amendment constitutionally or fundamentally changes the nature and character of the case; and (6) as a general rule, the Court should decline amendments if a fresh suit on the amendment claims would be barred by limitation on the date of application.” (Emphasis supplied) 29. Thus, the dictum as laid in the above referred of this Court is that the Court should decline amendments if a fresh suit on the amendment claims would be barred by limitation on the date of application. 30. The submission on the part of the appellants herein is that the suit would be governed by Article 58 of the Limitation Act and is liable to be dismissed being time barred whereas the submission on the part of the respondents (original plaintiffs) is that the suit is governed by Article 65 of the Limitation Act and even on the date when the First Appellate Court permitted the plaint to be amended, the same was well within limitation. 31. It is well settled that when there are several reliefs claimed in a suit, the limitation period would be that of the main relief, the limitation for ancillary relief being ignored. The argument of the learned counsel appearing for the appellants herein is not sustainable in law as it proceeds on the assumption as if old Article 142 of the earlier Limitation Act was in force wherein the plaintiff who based his case on title had to prove not only title but also possession within twelve years of the date of the suit. The said provision of law as observed aforesaid has undergone a metaphoric sea change as we find under the Limitation Act. Article 65 reads as under: [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1905 Mallavva and Anr. v. Kalsammanavara Kalamma (Since Dead) by Legal Heirs & Ors. “Description of Period of Time from Suit limitation which period begins to run 65. For possession Twelve years When the of immovable possession of property or any the defendant interest therein becomes based on title adverse to the plaintiff.” It is, therefore, obvious that when the suit is based on title for possession, once the title is established on the basis of relevant documents and other evidence unless the defendant proves adverse possession for the prescriptive period, the plaintiff cannot be non-suited.