Approximately, five minutes after the assault, the 366 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports injured was taken to the hospital. He was bleeding from his head. He was lifted and made to sit in the rickshaw. However, from the persons who lifted the injured, only Irfanbhai Memon received blood stains on his clothes. The witness (PW-11) admitted that neither he nor any other person received blood stains on their clothes or elsewhere. He was confronted with his previous version and admitted that he did not mention in the complaint (Exhibit P-79) that he had received an injury on his head in the incident. Going by the above version of the witness (PW-11), manifestly, the complaint which he gave at the police station never saw the light of the day and seems to have been intentionally withheld. Furthermore, PW-11 categorically stated that he signed the complaint on the morning after the incident and pursuant to the site inspection by the police, which creates a genuine doubt in the mind of the Court that the FIR (Exhibit-79) seems to have been created at a later point of time. 26. As per the deposition of S.N. Ghori, PSI (PW-17), the oral statement of Mohammad Arif Memon (PW-11) was taken down in writing at the Krishna Medical Hospital, Karamsad and the same was treated to be the complaint (Exhibit-79) which came to be registered as CR No. 141 of 2011 for offences punishable under Sections 302, 120B and 323 IPC. The formal FIR was exhibited during the deposition of S.N. Ghori, PSI (PW-17) who stated that on 4th May, 2011, while performing duty as Police Sub-Inspector (PSI) in the Sardar Bagh Police Station of Anand Town, he got information that three persons had caused injuries to Mohammad Sohail (deceased) near Shah petrol pump on Bhalej Road at about 8:00 pm. He was apprised that the injured was first taken to Nagar Palika Hospital, Anand in an autorickshaw and from there, the father of the injured took him to Krishna Medical Hospital, Karamsad in his van for further treatment. Upon this, the PSI (PW-17) proceeded to Shri Krishna Medical Hospital, Karamsad where he met the first informant Mohammad Arif Memon (PW-11) who narrated the details of the incident which was drawn up as the complaint. The witness marked Exhibit P-79 on the complaint and proved his signature thereupon. 27. The complaint (Exhibit P-79) was registered as a formal FIR by witness K.N. Waghela, Head Constable (PW-16) who testified that he had been performing duties as a Head Constable in Anand Town Police Station for last four years. He was present on duty on 4th May, 2011. The complainant Mohammad Arif Memon (PW-11) [2024] 8 S.C.R. 367 Allarakha Habib Memon Etc. v. State of Gujarat filed a complaint against Mohmedfaruk @ Palak and others to S.N. Ghori, PSI (PW-17) at 11:30 pm. The said complaint was forwarded to the police station Anand Town and accordingly, CR No. 141/2011 was registered, and investigation was assigned to DhananjaySinh Waghela, Police Inspector (PW-18).