At this stage, only the probative value of the materials has to be gone into and the court is not expected to go deep into the matter to hold a mini-trial. 14. In the decision in BK Sharma v. State of UP,4 the High Court of judicature at Allahabad held that the standard of test and which is finally applied before recording a finding of conviction against an accused is not to be applied at the stage of framing the charge. It is just a very strong suspicion, based on the material on record, and would be sufficient to frame a charge. 15. We are in agreement with the said view taken by the High Court. At the same time, we would add that the strong suspicion in to be sufficient to frame a charge should be based on the material brought on record by the prosecution and should not be based on supposition, suspicions and conjectures. In other words, in to be a basis to frame charge the strong suspicion should be the one emerging from the materials on record brought by the prosecution. 16. In the decision in Stree Atyachar Virodhi Parishad v. Dilip Nathumal Chordia & Anr.,5 this Court held that the word ‘ground’ in Section 227, Cr.PC, did not mean a ground for conviction, but a ground for putting the accused on trial. 17. In P. Vijayan v. State of Kerala and Anr.,6 after extracting Section 227, Cr.PC, this Court in paragraph No.10 and 11 held thus: - “10. **** **** **** **** …….If two views are possible and one of them gives rise to suspicion only, as distinguished from grave suspicion, the trial Judge will be empowered to discharge the accused and at this stage he is not to see whether the trial will end in conviction or acquittal. Further, the words “not sufficient ground for proceeding against the accused” 4 1987 SCC OnLine ALL 314 5 [1989] 1 SCR 560 : (1989) 1 SCC 715 6 [2010] 2 SCR 78 : (2010) 2 SCC 398 1166 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports clearly show that the Judge is not a mere post office to frame the charge at the behest of the prosecution, but has to exercise his judicial mind to the facts of the case in to determine whether a case for trial has been made out by the prosecution. In assessing this fact, it is not necessary for the court to enter into the pros and cons of the matter or into a weighing and balancing of evidence and probabilities which is really the function of the court, after the trial starts. 11. At the stage of Section 227, the Judge has merely to sift the evidence in to find out whether or not there is sufficient ground for proceeding against the accused. In other words, the sufficiency of ground would take within its fold the nature of the evidence recorded by the police or the documents produced before the court which ex facie disclose that there are suspicious circumstances against the accused so as to frame a charge against him.” 18.