11. Per contra, learned counsel for the respondent with reference to the counter affidavit strenuously contended that the impugned s and decrees are just and proper, which would not call for any interference at the hands of this Court. It was submitted that although there may be no Presidential issued with regard [2024] 2 S.C.R. 377 Chandigarh Housing Board v. Tarsem Lal to Scheduled Tribes under Article 342 of the Constitution of India insofar as Union Territory of Chandigarh is concerned, Annexure P-9 (colly) letter dated 25.11.1985 issued by the Ministry of Welfare, Government of India was relied upon. The said document would clearly indicate that insofar as a migrant, such as the respondent herein is concerned, he could derive the benefits having regard to his status in the State of origin; that the reference in the said letter is only to State and not to any Union Territory. Therefore, by that logic it was contended that if a person migrates from a State to an Union Territory, it would imply that even if there is no Presidential issued in terms of Article 342 of the Constitution, the migrant is entitled to place reliance on his status as Scheduled Tribe in the State of his origin and, therefore, seek the benefit in the Union Territory to which he migrates. In support of his submissions, learned counsel for the respondent placed reliance on of this Court in Director, Transport Department, Union Territory Administration of Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Silvassa vs. Abhinav Dipakbhai Patel (2019) 6 SCC 434 (Abhinav Dipakbhai Patel). Further, this Court in paragraph 66 of the Bir Singh while dealing with the case which arose from Delhi Jal Board, did not express any view with regard to question as far as other Union Territories were concerned and confined the decision only with regard to National Capital Territory of Delhi. Therefore, there is no of this Court which states that if a person migrates from a State where he is recognised as a Scheduled Tribe to an Union Territory in which there is no Presidential recognising any Scheduled Tribe nevertheless placing reliance on the Presidential vis-a-vis the State of origin of the migrant, benefit must be given to such a person. He therefore, submitted that there is no merit in this appeal. 12. We have considered the arguments advanced at the bar in relation to the facts of the case and the s of this Court. 13. It is not in dispute that the respondent herein had sought for allotment of HIG house reserved for Scheduled Tribes category in terms of the advertisement issued by the appellant herein; that being aggrieved by non-allotment of a house, the suit which was decreed by the Trial Court and which and decree was affirmed by the First Appellate Court as well as in the second appeal by the High Court. 378 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 14. At the outset, we may refer to Articles 341 and 342 which read as under: “341.