(IV) On 01.12.2023, learned Attorney General for India entered appearance on behalf of the Chancellor. He assured that the names to be suggested by the Chancellor for the constitution of Search Committees will be shared with counsels for the petitioner/intervenors. Besides granting time in this regard, we also impressed upon the learned Attorney General to use his good offices to explore an amicable mode of appointment of the Vice-Chancellors, in conformity with the Statutes governing such appointments. (V) It seems that pursuant to the initiative taken by learned Attorney General, some meetings were held on 04.12.2023, 13.03.2024 74 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports and 14.03.2024. These meetings, however, did not yield the desired results. (VI) On 16.04.2024, learned Attorney General, however, very fairly stated that six posts of the Vice-Chancellors will be filled up out of the list recommended by the State Government. Eventually, on 17.05.2024, we were informed that the State Government had sent a list of 15 names for appointment of Vice-Chancellors in 15 Universities. The learned Chancellor found 07 of them unsuitable and apparently had no objection against the remaining 08 persons. We, therefore, directed that those 08 names be appointed within 10 days. In to instill confidence on both sides, it was observed that the Chief Minister of the State may send names of some more eminent persons to fill up the 07 vacancies of Vice-Chancellors. (VII) We have no reason to doubt that the Chief Minister must have sent a few more names of eminent personalities and the Chancellor hopefully has accorded his approval for their appointment. As regard to the left-out Universities, we agreed on 17.05.2024, on the joint request of learned senior counsel for the parties, that a Search-cum-Selection Committee shall be constituted by this Court before the next date of hearing. 7. This is how we are tasked to constitute the Search-cum-Selection Committees. 8. Learned senior counsel/counsel for the parties are ad idem that the appointment of Vice-Chancellors in all the Universities are regulated by different Statutes. The academic qualification, teaching experience, and some other distinct features also vary from university to university, depending upon the speciality of the subjects being taught thereby. The (i) names of the University Acts; (ii) existing provision for appointment of Vice-Chancellors; (iii) amended provision for appointment of Vice-Chancellor under the ordinance of 2023; and (iv) subjects/disciplines which are being taught in a University, have been consequently provided to us in a tabulated form. On a cursory look, we find that every statute, broadly speaking, provides that the Vice-Chancellor shall be appointed by the Chancellor on the recommendations of a Search- cum-Selection Committee, who shall hold the office upto the age of 65 years and should be a person possessing the highest level [2024] 7 S.C.R. 75 The State of West Bengal v. Dr. Sanat Kumar Ghosh and Ors. of competence, integrity, morals and institutional commitment. The Vice-Chancellor must also be a distinguished academician with 10 years of experience as a Professor in a University or a well-reputed research/academician organization.