The appellant herein was also present at the place of occurrence. It was noticed that the appellant had also suffered a few superficial injuries. Both, the deceased and the appellant, were sent to the hospital where the deceased was declared as brought dead and the appellant was declared fit for the purpose of interrogation and was discharged after some preliminary treatment. 5. The investigation revealed that the marital relationship of the appellant with the deceased was strained on account of the deceased leaving the house all of a sudden without the permission of the appellant and thereafter returning late in the night hours. This was not liked by the appellant. On several occasions, altercations used to take place between the appellant and the deceased on such issues. It is the case of the prosecution that on the fateful night of the incident, an altercation took place between the appellant and the deceased, as a result, the appellant is alleged to have inflicted stab injuries indiscriminately with a knife all over the body of the deceased. It is also the case of the prosecution that the minor daughter Shaheena was the sole eyewitness to the incident. [2024] 6 S.C.R. 175 Anees v. The State Govt. of NCT 6. In such circumstances referred to above, a rukka was prepared by the Investigating Officer and sent to the concerned Police Station based upon which the First Information Report No. 728 of 1995 was registered against the appellant for the offence punishable under Section 302 of the IPC. 7. The contents of the FIR are reproduced herein below: “FIRST INFORMATION REPORT First Information of a Cognisable Crime Reported under Section 154 Cr.PC. FIR NO. 728/95 Date and hour of occurrence 1 Date AND 29-12-95 AT 4 AM 2 Name and residence DD No. 2A Dt: 20.12.95 at of information and 7 AM Writing of Information complainant S.I. Mohkam Singh. 3 Brief description of the Under Section 302 IPC offence (with section) and of property carried off, if any 4 Place of occurrence and distance and direction from Police Station 5 Name and Address of the House No. 220 Old Criminal Hustafabi Uttar Pradesh, Distance 1 ½ 6 Steps taken regarding No one stand responsible investigation explanation for such delay in this of delay in recording regard. information 7 Date and time of dispatch Thro special way. from police station Through wireless information was received that in Gali No.2 in House No. 222 near illegible factory knife blow has been given and some one be sent to the place of occurrence. On receiving the information, Constable Belt No.1 and SI Karam Singh left the police station 176 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports in government vehicle and constable illegible on the spot House no. 220 Gali No. 3 Old Mustaffa Bad. Over there the dead body of the deceased Saira was found on whose neck and stomach there were deep injuries and blood was pouring out over there, Aneesh husband of Saira was also present on the spot illegible.