16. We had heard Shri Huzefa Ahmadi, learned senior counsel for the appellants and Shri Devansh Anoop Mohta, learned counsel for the respondents. 17. The main thrust of the argument of Shri Huzefa Ahmadi, learned senior counsel for the Gala’s (appellants in both the civil appeals) is that Gala’s are undisputedly the owners in possession of the land Survey No.48 Hissa No.15 and since they have no alternative way of access to the said land except the rasta in dispute, the only option to them is to have egress and ingress through the said rasta for use of their land. They have acquired easementary right by prescription and that of necessity over the said rasta and more particularly through an agreement i.e. the Sale Deed dated 17.09.1994 which records their right of way through the said rasta. He further submits that once the suit was decreed by the court of first instance and findings were recorded in favour of the Gala’s, the appellate court ought not to have overturned those findings. It ought to have exercised restrain in interfering with the aforesaid decision. 18. The above submissions were stoutly opposed on behalf of the Ramani’s by their counsel. 19. ‘Easement’ is defined under Section 4 of the Indian Easements Act, 18821 to mean a right which the owner or occupier of a land possesses for the beneficial enjoyment of his land on the other land which is not owned by him, to do and continue to do something or to prevent and continue to prevent something being done on the said 1 Hereinafter referred to as “The Act”, for short [2024] 4 S.C.R. 365 Manisha Mahendra Gala & Ors. v. Shalini Bhagwan Avatramani & Ors. land. It may be pertinent to mention here that the land which is to be enjoyed by the beneficiary is called ‘Dominant Heritage’ and the land on which the easement is claimed is called ‘Servient Heritage’. The easementary right, therefore, is essentially a right claimed by the owner of a land upon another land owned by someone else so that he may enjoy his property in the most beneficial manner. 20. Now, we first proceed to examine if the Gala’s have acquired any easementary right over the rasta in dispute existing on the servient heritage. 21. In the case at hand, the Gala’s are admittedly the owners of Survey No. 48 Hissa No.15 whereas the Ramani’s are the owners of Survey No.57 Hissa No.13A/1 on which it is alleged, exists the rasta in dispute. The Gala’s claim that the use of the aforesaid rasta is for the beneficial enjoyment of their land as they have no other way of access to their land and that they have been enjoying the said easementary right for the “last many years”. 22. Section 15 of the Act categorically provides that for acquiring any easementary right by prescription, the said right must have been peaceably enjoyed in respect of the servient heritage without any interruption for over 20 years.