QUESTIONS FOR OUR CONSIDERATION 11. Various contentions have been canvassed by either party to the dispute. However, if this Court is to decide those issues, two questions must be considered at the threshold. They are:- (i) Whether Gopalakrishnan’s suit for declaration based on the First Settlement Deed, eventually filed in the year 1993 barred by limitation? (ii) Whether the suit for declaration simpliciter was maintainable in view of Section 34 of the SRA, 1963? To emphasise, we restate that if the answer to the aforementioned questions is in the affirmative, we need not refer to the other contentions raised across the bar. [2024] 2 S.C.R. 339 Vasantha (Dead) Thr. Lr. v. Rajalakshmi @ Rajam (Dead) Thr.Lrs. ANALYSIS & CONSIDERATION ISSUE 1 12. The provisions of the Limitation Act, 1963 relevant to the instant dispute, i.e, Section 27 and Articles 58 and 65 of the First Schedule to the Act, are reproduced hereinbelow for ready reference:- “27. Extinguishment of right to property.—At the determination of the period hereby limited to any person for instituting a suit for possession of any property, his right to such property shall be extinguished. Art. Description Period Time from of suit of which period limitation begins to run 58. To obtain any other Three When the right declaration. years to sue first accrues. 65. For possession of Twelve When the immovable property years possession of or any interest the defendant therein based on becomes title. adverse to the plaintiff. Explanation.- For the purposes of this article-- (a) Where the suit is by a remainderman, a reversioner (other than a landlord) or a devisee, the possession of the defendant shall be deemed to become adverse only when the estate of the remainderman, reversioner or devisee, as the case may be, falls into possession;…” 13. We notice that before us, are different interpretations of when the limitation period would expire thereby making the possession of the suit property, hostile to the rights supposedly vesting in Gopalakrishnan, as the heir of Saroja upon whom, the First Settlement Deed vested a right in the property. The learned Trial Court observed that, given the contention of the original plaintiff (Gopalakrishnan) that the 340 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Second Settlement Deed was invalid, he ought to have challenged the transfer caused thereby within 12 years of such date. Further, it was observed that another possibility of challenge arose in 1974 when Munasamy executed a settlement deed in favour of Vasantha and subsequently in 1976, when another deed was executed in favour of his wife, Pavanuaamal, his daughter. On both these occasions, the heir of the alleged vested interest of Saroja, was silent. Therefore, on both counts the suit filed by Gopalakrishnan was barred by limitation. The First Appellate Court agreed with this reasoning. 14. On the other hand, the learned senior counsel for the Appellants has contended, if at all, Gopalakrishnan has a right in the disputed property, then the period of limitation for establishing the adverse possession of Vasantha began in the year 2004 upon the death of the life estate holder i.e, Pavanuaamal, then by 2016 Vasantha had perfected the title by adverse possession.