Also, such contracts are harshly worded against individuals and not read and understood most often, resulting in grave legal implications. When such standard form contracts ordinarily contain exception clauses, they are invariably construed contra proferentem rule against the person who has drafted the same. 46. Some of the s which have considered the contra proferentem rule are referred to as under: 46.1. In General Assurance Society Ltd. v. Chandumull Jain, AIR 1966 SC 1644, it was held that where there is an ambiguity in the contract of insurance or doubt, it has to be construed contra proferentem against the insurance company. 46.2. In DDA v. Durga Chand Kaushish, AIR 1973 SC 2609, it was observed: “In construing document one must have regard, not to the presumed intention of the parties, but to the meaning of the words they have used. If two interpretations of the document are possible, the one which would give effect and meaning to all its parts should be adopted and for the purpose, the words creating uncertainty in the document can be ignored.” 46.3. Further, in Central Bank of India Ltd. v. Hartford Fire Insurance Co. Ltd., AIR 1965 SC 1288, it was held: “11. … what is called the contra proferentem rule should be applied and as the policy was in a standard form contract prepared by the insurer alone, it should be interpreted in a way that would be favourable to the assured.” 750 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 46.4. In Sahebzada Mohammad Kamgarh Shah v. Jagdish Chandra Deo Dhabal Deb, AIR 1960 SC 953, it was observed that where there is an ambiguity it is the duty of the court to look at all the parts of the document to ascertain what was really intended by the parties. But even here the rule has to be borne in mind that the document being the grantor’s document it has to be interpreted strictly against him and in favour of the grantee. 46.5. In United India Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Orient Treasures (P) Ltd., (2016) 3 SCC 49 , this Court quoted Halsbury’s Laws of England (5th Edn. Vol. 60, Para 105) on the contra proferentem rule as under: “37. … Contra proferentem rule.—Where there is ambiguity in the policy the court will apply the contra proferentem rule. Where a policy is produced by the insurers, it is their business to see that precision and clarity are attained and, if they fail to do so, the ambiguity will be resolved by adopting the construction favourable to the insured. Similarly, as regards language which emanates from the insured, such as the language used in answer to questions in the proposal or in a slip, a construction favourable to the insurers will prevail if the insured has created any ambiguity. This rule, however, only becomes operative where the words are truly ambiguous; it is a rule for resolving ambiguity and it cannot be invoked with a view to creating a doubt. Therefore, where the words used are free from ambiguity in the sense that, fairly and reasonably construed, they admit of only one meaning, the rule has no application.” 46.6.