(4) Where the Central Government is of the opinion that the offence is a Scheduled Offence and it is a fit case to be investigated by the Agency, it shall direct the Agency to investigate the said offence. (5) Notwithstanding anything contained in this section, if the Central Government is of the opinion that a Scheduled Offence has been committed which is required to be investigated under this Act, it may, suo motu, direct the Agency to investigate the said offence. (6) Where any direction has been given under sub-section (4) or sub-section (5), the State Government and any police officer of the State Government investigating the offence shall not proceed with the investigation and shall forthwith transmit the relevant documents and records to the Agency. 1764 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports (7) For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that till the Agency takes up the investigation of the case, it shall be the duty of the officer-in-charge of the police station to continue the investigation. (8) Where the Central Government is of the opinion that a Scheduled Offence has been committed at any place outside India to which this Act extends, it may direct the Agency to register the case and take up investigation as if such offence has been committed in India. (9) For the purposes of sub-section (8), the Special Court at New Delhi shall have the jurisdiction. 7. Power to transfer investigation to State Government.— While investigating any offence under this Act, the Agency, having regard to the gravity of the offence and other relevant factors, may— (a) if it is expedient to do so, request the State Government to associate itself with the investigation; or (b) with the previous approval of the Central Government transfer the case to the State Government for investigation and trial of the offence. 8. Power to investigate connected offences.—While investigating any Scheduled Offence the Agency may also investigate any other offence which the accused is alleged to have committed if the offence is connected with the Scheduled Offence. x x x x 14. Powers of Special Courts with respect to other offences.— (1) When trying any offence, a Special Court may also try any other offence with which the accused may, under the Code be charged, at the same trial if the offence is connected with such other offence. (2) If, in the course of any trial under this Act of any offence, it is found that the accused person has committed any other offence under this Act or under any other law, the Special [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1765 Ankush Vipan Kapoor v. National Investigation Agency Court may convict such person of such other offence and pass any sentence or award punishment authorised by this Act or, as the case may be, under such other law.” 5.1 A perusal of the aforesaid provisions and the long title of the NIA Act elucidates that the NIA Act was enacted to constitute a national level investigation agency to investigate and prosecute offences, inter alia, affecting the sovereignty, security and integrity of India, and security of State.