However, reading an unexpressed term in an agreement would be justified on the basis that such a term was always and obviously intended by the parties thereto. An unexpressed term can be implied if, and only if, the court finds that the parties must have intended that term to form part of their contract. It is not enough for the court to find that such a term would have been adopted by the parties as reasonable men if it had been suggested to them. Rather, it must have been a term that went without saying, a term necessary to give business efficacy to the contract, a term which, although tacit, forms part of the contract.61 75. But before an implied condition, not expressly found in the contract, is read into a contract, by invoking the business efficacy doctrine, it must satisfy following five conditions: a. it must be reasonable and equitable; b. it must be necessary to give business efficacy to the contract, that is, a term will not be implied if the contract is effective without it; c. it must be obvious that “it goes without saying”; d. it must be capable of clear expression; e. it must not contradict any terms of the contract.62 59 South East Asia Marine Engg. & Construction Ltd. (SEAMEC Ltd.) v. Oil India Ltd., (2020) 5 SCC 164 60 Bharat Aluminium Co. V. Kaiser Aluminium Technical Services Inc., (2016) 4 SCC 126. 61 Adani Power (Mundra) Ltd. v. Gujarat ERC, (2019) 19 SCC 9 62 Nabha Power Limited (NPL) v. Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) and Another, (2018) 11 SCC 508, followed in Adani Power (supra) [2024] 9 S.C.R. 551 OPG Power Generation Private Limited v. Enexio Power Cooling Solutions India Private Limited & Anr. ANALYSIS/ DISCUSSION 76. Having noticed the legal principles governing a challenge to an arbitral award, we shall now proceed to address the issues culled out above, which arise for our consideration in these appeals. GITA POWER (R-2) BOUND BY THE ARBITRATION AGREEMENT AND THEREFORE JOINTLY AND SEVERALLY LIABLE 77. To have a clear understanding of the issue as to whether Gita Power (R-2), the appellant in the connected appeal, could be subjected to arbitral proceedings and made jointly and severally liable along with OPG for the dues of Enexio, a look at the facts relating to formation of the contract including the conduct of the parties would be apposite. 78. The relevant facts in this regard, which find mention in the award, are as follows: (a) There were two companies, namely, Gita Power (R-2) and OPG (appellant). Gita Power is the holding company of OPG. Two Tenders were floated. One by a Gujarat Company in the same group, which related to design, manufacture, delivery to site, erection testing and commissioning of two ACC units with auxiliaries for a thermal power plant in Gujarat (for short Gujarat Unit). The other was issued by OPG in respect of design, manufacture, delivery to site, erection testing and commissioning of an ACC unit with auxiliaries for a thermal power plant at Gummidipoondi in Tamil Nadu (for short T.N.