20. From the record, it emerges that Shri Anil Masih, the Presiding Officer had signed each of the ballot papers. However, the video footage appears to indicate that he had also placed certain marks on some of the ballot papers. This was corroborated on 19 February 2024, when Shri Anil Masih, the Presiding authority/seventh respondent, who was present before this Court, stated that besides signing the ballot papers, he had placed his mark on eight ballot papers during the counting of the votes. He stated that he did so as he found that the ballot papers were defaced and sought to highlight them. 21. The grievance of the appellant, urged before this Court by Dr Abhishek Manu Singhvi and Mr Gurminder Singh, senior counsel is that the video footage leaves no manner of doubt that the Presiding Officer while initialing the ballot papers placed an ink mark on the lower half of eight ballot papers, all of which were cast in favour of the appellant. It has been urged that the votes were treated as invalid only as a result of the marks which were put by the Presiding Officer. Consequently, it has been submitted that a deliberate effort was made by the Presiding Officer to treat eight of the votes which were cast in favour of the appellant as invalid and to declare the eighth respondent as the elected candidate on the basis that he had secured sixteen votes. Hence, it has been submitted that the electoral process has been vitiated by the misconduct of the presiding authority, as a consequence of which the democratic process leading up to the election of the Mayor of the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation has been seriously impaired. 22. Mr Mukul Rohatgi, senior counsel appeared on behalf of the Presiding Officer/seventh respondent and urged that the entire process of the election was not only video recorded but both the contesting candidates and their representatives were present in the assembly hall where the counting took place. Mr Rohatgi further submitted that 706 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports apart from initialing the ballot papers, the Presiding Officer placed certain marks in the bottom half of the eight ballots which were treated as invalid based on his assessment that these ballots had already been defaced. 23. Mr Maninder Singh, senior counsel appearing on behalf of the eighth respondent submitted that the relief sought by the appellant in the underlying writ petition before the High Court is for setting aside the result of the election and for the conduct of a fresh election. During the pendency of these proceedings, the eighth respondent has tendered his resignation and hence, it has been submitted that a fresh election would have to be held in terms of the provisions of Section 38(3) of the Act. 24. Mr Tushar Mehta, Solicitor General appeared for the Union Territory of Chandigarh and clarified that he is not representing the Presiding Officer/seventh respondent in these proceedings. 25. As stated above, Regulation 6(9) indicates that at the time of voting, each member shall place a cross (X) on the right-hand side of the ballot paper opposite the name of the candidate for whom the member wishes to vote.