To recall, the Constitution Bench in Sitaram Sugar (supra) has held that the function can be regarded as legislative even if objective guidelines are prescribed for the exercise 93 2011 Guidelines; Clause 3 [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1443 Airports Economic Regulatory Authority of India v. Delhi International Airport Ltd. & Ors. of the function. Further, the provision only prescribes broad guidelines that AERA must “take into consideration”. AERA still has sufficient discretion to adapt to circumstances and various concerns while determining tariff. The Act does not prescribe the weightage that must be provided to each of the factors. That is well within the discretion of AERA. This is also evident from Section 13(1)(a)(viii) which provides that AERA may consider “any other factor which may be relevant for the purposes of the Act”; c. The factors which are required to be considered by AERA indicate the underlying policy considerations of the assessment.94 The factors, inter alia, include the cost of efficiency and economic and viable operation of major airports; d. Section 13(1A) requires that AERA be consulted regarding tariff and tariff structures which are proposed to be incorporated in bidding documents. This provision elucidates that even if AERA does not in a strict sense, “determine” tariff in terms of Section 13(1)(a), it will always be interested in the economic viability of airports and in that sense is a regulator of tariff. Thus, the considerations of AERA while determining tariff will be those of a regulator concerned with public and economic interests, which are purely non-adjudicatory considerations; e. Section 13(2) by enabling AERA to amend the tariff structure even before the completion of the prescribed five year period in “public interest” is clearly indicative of its regulatory role in the regulatory sphere entrusted to it; and f. The “overarching” limitations placed on AERA’s functions by Section 13(3) resemble the grounds for reasonable restrictions prescribed by Article 19 of the Constitution. These grounds are limitations on the broad policy considerations that AERA undertakes while determining tariffs. 59. The respondents have relied on two clauses of Section 13 to argue that tariff determination is an adjudicatory function. The first is the proviso to Section 13(1)(a) which provides that different 94 See Express Newspaper (Private) Ltd. v. Union of India, 1958 SCC OnLine SC 23 [111] 1444 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports tariff structures may be determined for different airports. This, it is argued, is a specific/individualistic component which is an indicator of the adjudicatory function. It is true that this Court in Sitaram Sugar (supra) held that one of the factors to assess if a function is adjudicatory is by determining if it has a specific or a general application. However, the observations cannot be interpreted to mean that it is an overarching consideration in the determination of whether the function is adjudicatory. Neither can it be interpreted to mean that the factor must be considered de hors the context. The consideration of the factors while exercising the function is equally and if not more important as a factor.