The High Court, therefore, in our view committed serious error in coming to the conclusion that there existed vacancies in the post of Field Supervisor on the materials produced before it. In fact the respondents herein who were the petitioners in the High 32 (1998) 7 SCC 469 [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1827 Allahabad University Etc. v. Geetanjali Tiwari (Pandey) & Ors. Etc. Etc. Court had not produced any material in support of their stand that vacancies existed and yet appointments have not been made. We are of the considered opinion that the conclusion of the High Court that there existed vacancies is unsustainable in law and is accordingly set aside.” (emphasis supplied) 36. The difference in pleading in respect of civil proceedings and a writ petition was succinctly noticed in Bharat Singh v. State of Haryana33 and expressed in the following words: “13. …, when a point which is ostensibly a point of law is required to be substantiated by facts, the party raising the point, if he is the writ petitioner, must plead and prove such facts by evidence which must appear from the writ petition and if he is the respondent, from the counter- affidavit. If the facts are not pleaded or the evidence in support of such facts is not annexed to the writ petition or to the counter-affidavit, as the case may be, the court will not entertain the point. In this context, it will not be out of place to point out that in this regard there is a distinction between a pleading under the Code of Civil Procedure and a writ petition or a counter-affidavit. While in a pleading, that is, a plaint or a written statement, the facts and not evidence are required to be pleaded, in a writ petition or in the counter-affidavit not only the facts but also the evidence in proof of such facts have to be pleaded and annexed to it. …” 37. Based on the aforesaid authorities, we hold that while deciding a writ petition on the basis of affidavits, the writ court’s enquiry ought to be restricted to the case pleaded by the parties and the evidence that they have placed on record as part of the writ petition or the counter/ reply affidavit, as the case may be. Findings of the court have to be based on the pleadings and the evidence produced before it by the parties. It is well-nigh impermissible for the writ court to conjecture and surmise and make out a third case, not pleaded by the parties, based on arguments advanced in course of hearing. 33 (1988) 4 SCC 534 1828 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports analysIs and Reasons 38. Allahabad University and, for that matter, Allahabad Degree College are both bound by the UGC Act and the 2018 Regulations. Normally, if compliance with certain statutory provisions of a central statute bring about adverse result for a citizen, the said result has to be accepted by him/her because the statutory provisions are nothing but the will of the people of India expressed by the Parliament.