Digital Supreme Court Reports deals with the necessity of a driving license. It was thus noted in Para 15 and 16 of the : “15. Section 9 provides for “grant of driving licence”. Section 10 prescribes the form and contents of licences to drive which is to the following effect: “10. Form and contents of licences to drive.— (1) Every learner’s licence and driving licence, except a driving licence issued under Section 18, shall be in such form and shall contain such information as may be prescribed by the Central Government. (2) A learner’s licence or, as the case may be, driving licence shall also be expressed as entitling the holder to drive a motor vehicle of one or more of the following classes, namely: (a)-(c)*** (d) light motor vehicle; (e) transport vehicle; [ Substituted for clauses (e) to (h) by Act 54 of 1994, Section 8 (w.e.f. 14-11-1994).] (i) road roller; (j) motor vehicle of a specified description.” The distinction between a “light motor vehicle” and a “transport vehicle” is, therefore, evident. A transport vehicle may be a light motor vehicle but for the purpose of driving the same, a distinct licence is required to be obtained. 16. The distinction between a “transport vehicle” and a “passenger vehicle” can also be noticed from Section 14 of the Act. Sub-section (2) of Section 14 provides for duration of a period of three years in case of an effective licence to drive a “transport vehicle” whereas in case of any other licence, it may remain effective for a period of 20 years.” [emphasis supplied] [2024] 11 S.C.R. 621 M/s Bajaj Alliance General Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Rambha Devi & Ors. 94.2. Relying on the in Prabhu Lal (supra) which distinguished Ashok Gangadhar Maratha (supra), the Court in Angad KoI held that a driver of the mini goods carriage auto holding a LMV license, need not have a license for a Transport Vehicle. The Court also referred to Annappa Irappa Nesaria (supra) to note that the amendment (applicable prospectively) specifically introduced the term ‘Transport Vehicle’ in Section 10. Following this amendment, a specific endorsement for driving a Transport Vehicle would be necessary. It was also noted that since the license was granted for 20 years, a presumption arose that it was for a vehicle other than a transport vehicle. It was ultimately held that the driver did not have a valid driving license, for driving a ‘goods vehicle’ and breach of conditions of the insurance policy was found apparent on the face of record. However, exercising its power under Article 142, this Court directed the Insurance Company to deposit the compensation amount before the Tribunal with liberty to the claimants to withdraw the same providing the right of recovery to the Insurance Company to recover the deposited sum from the owner and the driver of the vehicle. 94.3. Before this Court, the Counsel for the Insurance Companies placed reliance on the above decision in Angad Kol (supra) to argue that there is a clear distinction between ‘transport vehicle’ and ‘light motor vehicle’.