Registered in 1939 as Jamia Milia Islamia Society, the institution was deemed to be a University under section 3 of the University Grants Commission Act, 195638 in 1962. 64. Much would turn on this piece of historical evidence while appreciating whether AMU was an institution established by the Muslim community. 65. Further, in British India, the legislative framework governing educational institutions was such that schools and colleges, such as MAO College, could be established by private persons, but universities in particular were exclusively within the domain of the Governor General-in-Council39. Though there existed no legal bar to the establishment of universities by private individuals or societies, the British Government granted recognition only to degrees issued by universities which were creatures of statute. It is the appellants’ 38 UGC Act, hereafter 39 GGIC, hereafter [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1885 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. submission that in such a context, the appellants had no recourse but to obtain the concurrence of the British Government, if Sir Syed’s dream was ever to be realised. It is pressed that the British Government enacted the AMU Act only upon furnishing of adequate funds by the Muslim community, and hence, though AMU was a statutory institution, it was argued to be established by the Muslims, for the Muslims. 66. Article 30(1) of the Constitution guarantees to minorities, religious and linguistic, the right to establish and ad minister educational institutions of their choice. The provision, at a glance, has the following three components: (i) Existence of a minority community – either religious or linguistic, (ii) the minority community has the right to establish an educational institution; and (iii) the minority community has the right to administer an educational institution. 67. It is no longer res integra that even institutions established prior to the Constitution would be eligible to seek the protection of Article 30(1), as was expressed by this Court in Re: The Kerala Education Bill, 1957 (supra) at p. 1051: “There is no reason why the benefit of Article 30(1) should be limited only to educational institutions established after the commencement of the Constitution. The language employed in Article 30(1) is wide enough to cover both pre-constitution and post-constitution institutions. It must not be overlooked that Article 30(1) gives the minorities two rights, namely, (a) to establish, and (b) to administer, educational institutions of their choice. The second right clearly covers pre-constitution schools just as Article 26 covers the right to maintain pre-constitution religious institutions.” (emphasis supplied) AMU, though established during pre-Constitution days, it was contended that it is thus eligible to seek the protection of Article 30(1). 68. Having regard to such contention, it is necessary to examine the aspect of establishment. To understand how and why AMU came to 1886 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports be established, a perusal of the Statement of Objects and Reasons to the Act, and its Preamble, is necessitated: “An Act to establish and incorporate a teaching and residential Muslim University at Aligarh.” “WHEREAS it is expedient to establish and incorporate a teaching and residential Muslim University at Aligarh, and to dissolve the Societies registered under the Societies’ Registration Act, 1860, which are respectively known as the Muhammadan Anglo-Oriental College, Aligarh, and the Muslim University Association, and to transfer to and rest in the said University all properties and rights of the said Societies and of the Muslim University Foundation Committee.” 69.