(h) Whether the report of medical examination of the woman has been attached where investigation relates to an offence under sections 376, 376A, 376AB, 376B, 376C, 376D, 376DA, 376DB or section 376E of the Penal Code, 1860” (ii) If upon the completion of investigation, there is no sufficient evidence or reasonable ground of suspicion to justify the forwarding of the accused to a Magistrate, the Police officer in charge shall clearly state in the Report about the compliance of Section 169 Cr. P.C. (iii) When the report in respect of a case to which Section 170 applies, the police officer shall forward to the 3 [2024] 3 SCR 614 : 2024 SCC Online SC 269 94 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Magistrate along with the report, all the documents or relevant extracts thereof on which the prosecution proposes to rely other than those already sent to the Magistrate during investigation; and the statements recorded under Section 161 of all the persons whom the prosecution proposes to examine as its witnesses. (iv) In case of further investigation, the Police officer in charge shall forward to the Magistrate a further report or reports regarding such evidence in the form prescribed and shall also comply with the details mentioned in the above sub para (i) to (iii).” 4. The decision in Dablu Kujur (supra) refers to Section 157 of the Code which inter alia states that, if on information received or otherwise, an officer of the police station has reason to suspect commission of an offence which he is empowered under Section 156 to investigate, he shall forthwith send a report of the same to the Magistrate empowered to take cognisance of the offence. Further, he shall proceed in person or depute any of his subordinate officers to proceed to the spot to investigate the facts and circumstances of the case, and if necessary, to take measures for discovery and arrest the offender. Such report is in the nature of a preliminary report. As per Section 169 of the Code, if it appears to the officer in-charge of the police station that there is not sufficient evidence or reasonable ground of suspicion to justify forwarding the accused to the Magistrate, then the officer shall release the person if he is in custody on his executing a bond, with or without sureties, with a direction to such person to appear if and when so required, before the Magistrate empowered to take cognisance of the offence from the police report.4 4 We clarify and respectfully agree with the view expressed by this Court in Siddharth v. State of Uttar Pradesh and Another, (2022) 1 SCC 676, which has interpreted Section 170 of the Code. The word ‘custody’ used in the said Section does not contemplate either police or judicial custody, for otherwise the Section would lead to unpalatable and incongruous consequences. It is observed that in normal and ordinary course, the police should avoid arresting a person and sending him to jail, if it is possible for the police to complete the investigation without his arrest and if every kind of cooperation is provided by the accused to the investigating officer in completing the investigation.