[2024] 11 S.C.R. 1819 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. 119. Having answered the prefatory issues of locus and maintainability, we now proceed to delve into the contours of Article 30 of the Constitution and make an endeavor to explain the true meaning of the expressions ‘establish’ and ‘administer’. Questions regarding constitutional interpretation H. Issue III: What are the tests to seek protection under Article 30? 120. When posed with the question of whether the prongs of ‘establishment’ and ‘administration’ ought to be construed conjunctively or disjunctively in determining whether it is a minority institution, the Appellant sought to contend that minority administration of their institution is merely discretionary and that they are not bound to satisfy the twin test. They instead urged that the prong of administration, would not be a prerequisite for determining the minority status of an educational institution. 121. The Respondents, on the other hand, assailed that for an institution to claim the protection proffered under Article 30, the minority community would have to demonstrate the two prongs of ‘establishment’ and ‘administration’ of the institution conjunctively. 122. Having considered the rival submissions tendered by the parties as well the language of the provision itself, it is evident that ‘establishment’ and ‘administration’ are qualitatively distinct: while the former deals with the history of the institution, the latter deals with the control over the institution, at present. Accordingly, ‘establishment’ is temporally fixated, while ‘administration’ requires analysis over a continuous span of time, both during and post-establishment. 123. Of these two aspects, the necessity of the prong of establishment is not in dispute. Both parties agree that an institution must be established by the minority community. This issue is also largely settled by various judicial precedents of this Court, which have held that establishment by minority is a necessary pre-requisite for claiming the right under Article 30.71 The question, however, has been raised 71 Kerala Education Bill, 1957, supra note 58; State of Kerala vs. Very Rev. Mother Provincial, (1970) 2 SCC 417, para 8; S.P. Mittal vs. Union of India, (1983) 1 SCC 51, para 137; Dayanand Anglo Vedic (DAV) College Trust and Management Society v. State of Maharashtra,(2013) 4 SCC 14. 1820 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports in regard to the administration prong. The Respondents have argued it to be a pre-requisite for invoking Article 30, while the Appellant has argued it to be the result of such an invocation. 124. We find that both the Appellant and Respondents are right, but only to the extent that administration is both a pre-requisite and the result. In this respect, it mirrors its counterpart,Article 29,under the section ‘Cultural and Educational Rights’. Article 29 makes the distinctiveness of culture a pre-requisite for invoking its provision, and once invoked, it bestows the right to conserve such distinctiveness. Similarly, Article 30 outlines administration by the minority community as a pre-requisite for invoking the provision, ultimately granting the right to continue such administration free from unreasonable government interference. 125. There are multifarious reasons behind upholding administration as a pre-requisite rather than merely a right or result.