It is the grievance of the Complainants that banks under the veil of providing credit card facilities, is executing unilateral contracts, for their own profit and gain, and such practice, cannot be fair by any means. It is submitted that such one-sided contracts, offering no choice to the consumer, have been struck down as “unfair trade practices”.7 32. It is submitted that the definition clause of the Act itself, gives adequate ammunition to the court to declare any form of unfair trade practice as illegal and grant the resultant relief to the consumer.8 It is urged that the Consumer Forum has the necessary jurisdiction, to entertain the plea of a consumer, and further adjudicate on the terms of a contract, in the present case being the rates of interest, being charged by the banks. It is also argued that the question of 7 Pioneer Urban Land and Infrastructure Vs Geetu Gidwani Verma & Anr. (2019) 5 SCC 725; Ireo Grace v Abhishek Khanna (2021) 3 SCC 241; Exeprion Developers Pvt Ltd v Sushma Ashok Shiroor (2022) 12 SCC 286 8 Texco Marketing Pvt. Ltd. Vs TATA AIG GIC (2023) 1 SCC 428 1502 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports this excessive rate of interest amounts to penalty falls well-within the meaning of Section 74 of the Indian Contract Act upon which any Civil Court has the jurisdiction to adjudicate. 33. It is submitted that the Complainant, that represents a voluntary consumer association, working for the sake of consumer rights, is well within the scope of the definition of a complainant, under Section 12(1)(b) of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986. The original Complaint, preferred by the Complainants, meets the necessary requirements under section 12 read with section 13 of the Act. In addition, the Respondents had also filed an Application under section 13(6) of the Act, to substantiate their bona fide, however the same was never adjudicated upon. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE RESERVE BANK OF INDIA 34. The Reserve Bank of India has the statutory power under section 21 and 35A of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 for determining the policy in relation to the advances to be followed by the bank from time to time, which the banks are bound to follow. In accordance with this power granted by the Act, the RBI has from time to time issued directives/guidelines to the banks regarding interest rates on advances, credit cards and is of the considered opinion that there exist no extraneous circumstances of violation that warrant an action by the RBI against any bank or the banking sector. 35. The bone of contention raised by the original Complainants that the RBI ought to have taken action against the Banks, has been clarified by the Reserve Bank of India, stating that there is no material before it or the Complainants or the National Commission, to establish that any of the banks have acted contrary to the policy directives issued by the Reserve Bank of India. Hence, the question of directing the RBI to act against any bank does not arise in the facts and circumstances of the present case.