Digital Supreme Court Reports (v) that the work of erection of the new building or new floor or floors shall be completed by the landlord not later than fifteen months from the said date: Provided that, where the court is satisfied that the work of demolishing the premises could not be commenced or completed, or the work of erection of the new building or, as the case may be, the new floor or floors could not be completed, within time, for reasons beyond the control of the landlord, the court may, by , for reasons to be recorded. extend the period by such further periods, not exceeding three months at a time as may, from time to time, be specified by it, so however that the extended period shall not exceed twelve months in the aggregate. (7) Where the possession of premises is recovered on the ground specified under clause (g), (h), (i) or (j) of sub- section (1) and the premises are transferred by the landlord, or by operation of law before the tenant or tenants are placed in occupation, then such transfer shall be subject to the rights and interests of such tenants. (8) For the purposes of clause (m) of sub-section (1), the standard rent or permitted increase in respect of the part sub-let shall be the amounts bearing such proportion to the standard rent or permitted increases in respect of the premises as may be reasonable having regard to the extent of the part sub-let and other relevant considerations. (9) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, where the premises let to any person include- (i) the terrace or part thereof; or (ii) any one or more of the following structures, that is to say, tower-rooms, sitting-outrooms, ornamental structures, architectural features, landings, attics on the terrace of a building, or one or more rooms of whatsoever description on such terrace (such room or rooms being in the aggregate of an area not more than one-sixth of the total area of the terrace); or (iii) the terrace or part thereof and any such structure, [2024] 1 S.C.R. 1119 Baitulla Ismail Shaikh and Anr. v. Khatija Ismail Panhalkar and Ors. and the court is satisfied that the terrace or structure or terrace including structure, as aforesaid, are required by the landlord for the purpose of demolition and erection or raising of a floor or floors on such terrace, the landlord shall be entitled to recover possession of the terrace including such tower-rooms, sitting-out-rooms, ornamental structures, architectural features, landings, attics or rooms, the court may make such reduction, if any, in the rent as it may deem just. (10) A suit for eviction on the grounds specified in clause (h), (i), (i) or (k) of sub-section (1) may be filed by the landlord jointly against all the tenants occupying the premises sought to be demolished.” 10. The eviction proceeding was instituted in the suit giving rise to Civil Appeal No.1543 of 2016 against the appellants, inter-alia, on the grounds of having made construction of permanent nature by extending the area of the shop premises, without the landlords’ consent, causing permanent damage to the property in question, causing nuisance and annoyance to the adjoining area and neighbouring occupiers as also inducting a relative as sub-tenant.