Additionally, Entry 31 – List II in the Government of India Act, 1935 also regulated narcotic drugs and opium along with “intoxicating liquors”. However, references to them were deleted to prevent overlapping with entries in the Concurrent List. In substance, the inference that is drawn is that all – alcohol, narcotic drugs and opium – are products which can be noxiously used because they are also used as raw materials in the production of other products. 12.14 What prima facie appears is that the “intoxication” effect is a sine qua non for the legislative competence of States on any liquors potentially coming within the scope of Entry 8 – List II. In the absence of an “intoxicating” effect from liquors, a State Legislature cannot legislate on the subject. However, in my view, what is required to be seen is the nature of the product which leads to such an intoxicating effect upon human consumption of the same. Here, the expression consumption must be explained. It is not all kinds of human consumption, direct or indirect, which is the determining factor. It is only direct consumption i.e. as an ingestion by the act of drinking as a beverage or a drink. An indirect consumption by use of alcoholic liquors as a raw material for any other product, industrial, medicinal or a toilet item cannot be included as part of Entry 8 – List II. Secondly, merely because there can be a potential misuse of “industrial alcohol”, for example, by converting [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2121 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons rectified spirit (“industrial alcohol”) as a beverage which has an intoxicating effect, Entry 8 – List II cannot be stretched to include such “industrial alcohol”. The prevention of abuse of “industrial alcohol” as a beverage is also covered under Entry 8 – List II. Thus, what is carved out of “Fermentation Industries” in Entry 24 – List II is only “intoxicating liquors” used as beverage and thus, for direct human consumption the said subject is placed in Entry 8 – List II. This would imply that the rest of “Fermentation Industries” would be within the scope and ambit of Entry 24 – List II which is subject to Entry 52 – List I and is a scheduled industry as per Section 2 read with Item 26 of First Schedule of IDRA. 12.15 One must also be cognizant of the fact that Entry 8 – List II concerns itself with “intoxicating liquors” even from a historical perspective. Constitutional framers were not engaged in a theoretical task of demarcating legislative fields but in their utmost wisdom and pragmatism distributed legislate fields between Parliament and State Legislatures that would continue to determine the governance of the nation. One must note that a construction of Entry 8 – List II should not potentially give the States the legislative competence to legislate on “industrial alcohol” which is a scheduled industry under IDRA. That Entry 8 – List II which deals with “intoxicating liquors” cannot also subsume industries for manufacture of “industrial alcohol”, etc.