67 Annual Report 1995-1996, National Commission for Women, 3. 68 ‘NHRC’ [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1549 Society for Enlightenment and Voluntary Action & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. (iv) provide for the maintenance of a minor girl by her husband or guardian till she remarries; and (v) stipulate for the return of all dowry and gifts exchanged during the child marriage.69 The report also stressed on the need to initiate social action by networking with NGOs in the areas where child marriages were prevalent in to sensitize community leaders against such marriages.70 41. On the basis of the two reports, the Government of India consulted the States and the Union Territories. Accordingly, the Parliament decided to repeal the CMRA and enact the PCMA. The Statement of Objects and Reasons of the PCMA stated the salient features of the Act as follows: “4. The salient features of the Bill are as follows:– (i) To make a provision to declare child marriage as voidable at the option of the contracting party to the marriage, who was a child. (ii) To provide a provision requiring the husband or, if he is a minor at the material time, his guardian to pay maintenance to the minor girl until her remarriage. (iii) To make a provision for the custody and maintenance of children born of child marriages (iv) To provide that notwithstanding a child marriage has been annulled by a decree of nullity under the proposed section 3, every child born of such marriage, whether before or after the commencement of the proposed legislation, shall be legitimate for all purposes. (v) To empower the district court to add to, modify or revoke any relating to maintenance of the female petitioner and her residence and custody or maintenance of children, etc. (vi) To make a provision for declaring the child marriage as void in certain circumstances. 69 Annual Report 2001-2002, National Human Rights Commission, 50-51, 336-348. 70 Annual Report 2001-2002, National Human Rights Commission, 51. 1550 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (vii) To empower the courts to issue injunctions prohibiting solemnisation of marriages in contravention of the provisions of the proposed legislation. (viii) To make the offences under the proposed legislation to be cognizable for the purposes of investigation and for other purposes. (ix) To provide for appointment of Child Marriage Prevention Officers by the State Government. (x) To empower the State Governments to make rules for effective administration of the legislation. 5. The Bill seeks to achieve the above objectives.” 42. The PCMA retained the age of marriage as twenty-one for males and eighteen for females.71 The Act provides for governing parties to a child marriage after its commission, punitive measures against offenders of the Act as well as provisions for the prevention of child marriage. We shall analyse the scheme of the PCMA in three parts. In Part i, we shall analyse the provisions that seek to protect women married as girls as well as children born in child marriages (Sections 3 to 8 of the PCMA).