The High Court, vide dated 24.09.2010, observed that the abovementioned letters clearly support the stand earlier taken on behalf of the State and thus, there is no ground for modification sought. The application was dismissed accordingly. Aggrieved by the said s, the Appellant State is before us. 7. The core issue of the matter boils down to whether the exemption from payment of Market fee granted under Clause (i) of 11.4.2 of 2003 Policy of the Punjab Government can be said to include exemption from Rural Development fee as well or not. 8. Before proceeding any further, the relevant statutory provisions may be noticed. 9. Market Fee is levied under Section 23 of the 1961 Act which is as follows: “23. Levy of fees. – A Committee may, subject to such rules as may be made by the State Government in this behalf, levy on advalorem basis fees on the agricultural produce bought or sold by licensees in the notified market area [at the rate of [one rupee and fifty Paise]] for every one hundred rupees: Provided that- 2 1961 Act, hereinafter 3 1987 Act, hereinafter [2024] 7 S.C.R. 749 State of Punjab & Ors. v. M/s Punjab Spintex Ltd. no fee shall be leviable in respect of any transaction in which delivery of the agricultural produce bought or sold is not actually made; and a fee shall be leviable only on the parties to a transaction in which delivery is actually made.” 10. Rural Development Fund is levied under Section 5 of the 1987 Act and the constitution of fund is dealt under Section 6. The relevant provisions are as follows: “Section 5 - Levy and collection of fee Subject to the rules made under this Act, there shall be levied for the purpose of this Act, a fee on ad valoram basis, at the rate of rupees two for every one hundred rupees, in respect of the agricultural produce, bought or sold in the notified market area. (2) The fee levied under sub-section (1) shall be paid by the dealer in such manner as may be prescribed and shall be realised by a Market Committee established under the Punjab Agricultural Produce Markets Act, 1961 (Punjab Act 23 of 1961) : Provided that the burden of the fee shall be passed on by the dealer by adding it to the purchase price recoverable by him from the next purchaser of the agricultural produce or the goods processed or manufactured out of it. [(2-A) If any dealer fails to pay the amount of the fee levied under sub-section (1), he shall, in addition to the amount of fee be liable to pay interest on the amount of fee due from him at the rate of eighteen per centum per annum from the date of default.] (3) The arrears of fee levied under sub-section (1) shall be recoverable as arrears of land revenue. Section 6 – Constitution of Fund (1) There shall be constituted a fund to be called the Punjab Rural Development Fund which shall vest in the Board.