C. There is no apparent regulatory failure attributable to SEBI 18. The petitioners have submitted, based on the Hindenburg Report and other newspaper reports, that the FPIs investing in Adani group stocks in the Indian stock market are shell companies outside India owed by the brother of the Chairperson of the Adani group. These shell companies have, it is urged, an unclear ownership pattern and seem to only trade in Adani stocks which allegedly allows the Adani group to maintain an appearance of financial health and solvency. The petitioners allege that this would artificially boost the value of Adani stocks in the market and expose the Indian market and investors to huge losses. 19. Additionally, the petitioners contend that after accounting for these shell companies which allegedly belong to a member of the Adani family, the promotor shareholding would surpass 75%. This, it is alleged, would be in contravention of Rule 19A of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules 1957 which mandates a minimum of 25% public shareholding. The alleged contravention would 190 [2024] 1 S.C.R. DIGITAL SUPREME COURT REPORTS according to the petitioners entail the delisting of the Adani group as a consequence. According to the petitioners, the disclosure of the ownership of the FPIs investing in the Adani stocks lies at the heart of the alleged violation of Rule 19A. In its dated 10 March 2023, this Court noted that SEBI was already seized of investigations into the Adani group since 2020. This Court further directed SEBI to investigate the alleged violation of Rule 19A of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules 1957. 20. The FPI Regulations, 2014 had mandated the disclosure of the ultimate beneficial ownership by natural persons of the FPI under the provisions concerning “opaque structures” in ownership of FPIs. The declaration of the “ultimate beneficial owner” under SEBI Regulations was required to conform to the disclosure of “beneficial owner” under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 200211 and thereby under Rule 9 of the Prevention of Money Laundering Maintenance of Records Rules, 2004. These requirements were amended by SEBI in 2018 and 2019 by removing the requirement of disclosing ownership of the FPIs by a natural person. The petitioner submits that this amounts to a regulatory failure on the part of SEBI. 21. The petitioner further argues that the LODR Regulations, 2015 defined a “related party transaction” in Regulation 2(1)(zb) as a transaction involving a transfer of resources between a listed entity and a “related party”, regardless of whether a price is charged. The term “related party”, in Regulation 2(1)(zc) had the same meaning that is ascribed to “related party” under Section 2(76) of the Companies Act, 2013. Based on a report of the Committee on Corporate Governance dated 5 October 2017 the definition was amended on 1 April 2019 to provide that any person or entity belonging to the “promoter” or “promoter group” of a listed entity that held 20% or more of the shareholding in the listed entity shall be deemed to be a related party.