In the “Best Bakery Case”, wherein the Trial Court directed the acquittal of the accused person in a case of mass killings, the same was upheld by the High Court of Gujarat while dismissing the criminal appeal, this Court, after considering the facts and circumstances of the case, directed the de novo trial of the accused person by observing that: “73. … We are satisfied that it is a fit and proper case, in the background of the nature of additional evidence sought to be adduced and the perfunctory manner of trial conducted on the basis of tainted investigation a retrial is a must and essentially called for in to save and preserve the justice-delivery system unsullied and unscathed by vested interests. We should not be understood to have held that whenever additional evidence is accepted, retrial is a necessary corollary. The case on hand is without parallel and comparison to any of the cases where even 1566 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports such grievances were sought to be made. It stands on its own as an exemplary one, special of its kind, necessary to prevent its recurrence. It is normally for the appellate court to decide whether the adjudication itself by taking into account the additional evidence would be proper or it would be appropriate to direct a fresh trial, though, on the facts of this case, the direction for retrial becomes inevitable.” 17. A Three Judge Bench of this Court in Mohd. Hussain v. State (Govt. of NCT of Delhi),23 held that: 41. The appellate court hearing a criminal appeal from a of conviction has power to the retrial of the accused under Section 386 of the Code. That is clear from the bare language of Section 386(b). Though such power exists, it should not be exercised in a routine manner. A de novo trial or retrial of the accused should be ed by the appellate court in exceptional and rare cases and only when in the opinion of the appellate court such course becomes indispensable to avert failure of justice. Surely this power cannot be used to allow the prosecution to improve upon its case or fill up the lacuna. A retrial is not the second trial; it is continuation of the same trial and same prosecution. The guiding factor for retrial must always be demand of justice. Obviously, the exercise of power of retrial under Section 386(b) of the Code, will depend on the facts and circumstances of each case for which no straitjacket formula can be formulated but the appeal court must closely keep in view that while protecting the right of an accused to fair trial and due process, the people who seek protection of law do not lose hope in legal system and the interests of the society are not altogether overlooked. (Emphasis supplied) 18. While relying upon the decision of the Constitution Bench in Ukha Kolhe (supra), this court discussed the scope of Section 386 of 23 (2012) 9 SCC 408 [2024] 12 S.C.R.