The only issue that survived thereafter was of the quantum of sentence for which, the 706 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports procedure contemplated under sub-section (2) was to be complied with. The High Court has, thus, rightly held that the successor officer would hear the appellant on the question of sentence and pass an appropriate . We see no legal infirmity in the impugned passed by the High Court. 17. Learned senior counsel for the appellant vehemently urges that the of conviction, granted against the appellant, does not satisfy the ingredients of Section 353 read with Section 354 of the Cr.P.C. and hence, there is no `’ rendered in the eyes of law within the meaning of sub-section (1) of Section 235 of the Cr.P.C. 18. We are, however, not impressed by the submission. We say so for the reason that the Trial Court delivered a self-speaking of conviction which satisfies all the constituents illustrated in Section 354(1) of the Cr.P.C. Further, the operative part of the as well as the passed on that very date for granting exemption from personal appearance to the appellant, reveal that the said of conviction was read out by the Presiding Officer in open court, in the presence of the appellant’s counsel, and it was well understood by his pleader. The Presiding Officer thus, followed the procedure envisaged under sub-section (1) of Section 353 of the Cr.P.C. The next step to be taken by the Presiding Officer, was to list the case to accord a hearing to the appellant on the quantum of sentence. That is precisely what has been done in the instant case. We are, thus, of the view that there is not even a fragment of violation of Sections 353 or 354 of the Cr.P.C., as claimed on behalf of the appellant. 19. There is thus no merit in this appeal which is consequently dismissed. 20. The Presiding Officer, presently posted in the concerned trial Court, is directed to hear the appellant on the question of sentence as early as possible but not later than one month from the date of receipt of a copy of this . The necessary consequences will follow. 21. The appellant is directed to surrender before the Trial Court on 04.11.2024 at 10.00 a.m. for being taken into judicial custody. He shall be produced before the Trial Court on the date of hearing on the quantum of sentence as also the date of pronouncement of the on sentence. In case he absents or absconds, the law must [2024] 10 S.C.R. 707 Harshad Gupta v. The State of Chhattisgarh take its own course. The Police Authorities are directed to ensure that the appellant remains present before the Court to meet the necessary consequences. 22. ed accordingly. Result of the Case: Appeal dismissed. †Headnotes prepared by: Divya Pandey