This being the case, the Court cannot direct a re-exam. 85. In the previous section which sets out the position of law on this issue, this Court noticed that the purpose of assessing whether the sanctity of the exam has been vitiated at a systemic level was to facilitate and encourage a proportional response. If it is possible to separate the tainted candidates from the untainted ones, there would be no justification to cancel the exam. This is because honest candidates would be made to suffer without reason due to the actions of some unscrupulous candidates. It is also important for the response to malpractice to be proportionate. ing a re-test would disrupt the 86 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports academic schedule for the year. The delay in completing admission will impact the availability of resident doctors to attend to patient care in the future. Any such direction will have disproportionate consequences for candidates from marginalised backgrounds. They would be disadvantaged, in the event of a re-exam – neither are desirable outcomes. 86. The petitioners have placed reliance on the s of this Court in Tanvi Sarwal v. CBSE16 and Sachin Kumar (supra) in support of their contention that a re-test must be directed. It is necessary to briefly advert to the facts and the ruling in these cases to appreciate their applicability to the present case. 87. In Tanvi Sarwal’s case (supra), the Court adjudicated writ petitions challenging the validity of the All India Pre-Medical and Pre-Dental Entrance Test 2015 on the ground that the integrity of the exam had been compromised by the use of unfair means. After the exam was conducted, news reports revealed that answer keys had been transmitted to many candidates in the course of the examination, using electronic devices. The Court noticed the following from multiple status reports filed by the investigating agency in that case: a. Some arrested persons stated that they had planned to recover Rs. 20 lakhs from each student who wished to avail of their services to cheat in the exam; b. One of the arrested persons was a doctor. Several answer keys were found to be stored on his mobile phone. They were also forwarded to two other mobile numbers using WhatsApp; c. Vests for men and women fitted with micro SIMs were recovered from some persons suspected to be involved in the scam; d. Bluetooth devices were recovered from a person suspected of facilitating cheating; e. The question paper had been leaked in Behror, Alwar District, Rajasthan. The arrested persons planned to communicate the answers to the students during the conduct of the examination using the vests fitted with micro SIMs. At least three hundred such vests were used; 16 (2015) 6 SCC 573 [2024] 8 S.C.R. 87 Vanshika Yadav v. Union of India & Ors. f. The persons suspected of being the masterminds of the scam were found to have called several people in Jharkhand, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Delhi, Maharashtra, Odisha and Haryana, using different phone numbers; g. 358 mobile numbers were used to transmit the answers to the question paper to various beneficiaries across the country; h. Some candidates admitted to having received the answers during the exam, through electronic devices supplied to them by the alleged offenders; i.