They, accordingly, prayed for rectification of the Register of Members of the company, by entering their names, and to initiate appropriate action against respondent Nos. 2, 3 and 4. Allegations were also made against V. Vasudev Reddy, respondent No.5, the Chartered Accountant associated with the company, to the effect that he was a co-conspirator and action was sought against him. The appellants also sought various interim reliefs pending disposal of the Company Petition. In the first instance, the NCLT directed status quo to be maintained as regards the company’s assets and invited objections from the other side. 5. The company, respondent No.1, filed a counter opposing the grant of interim reliefs. Therein, it contended that the appellants could not allege oppression and mismanagement as they were not members of the company and were, in fact, seeking rectification of the Register of Members in that regard. The transfer of shares, as claimed by the appellants, was denied and, in consequence, their locus to maintain the company petition was challenged. Issue of limitation was also raised as the appellants’ claim was that they had acquired the shares on 18.04.2015 but the company petition was filed only on 09.11.2018, i.e., after the lapse of over three years. The company alleged that it had received emails from respondent Nos. 3 and 4 stating that 240 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the appellants had forged their signatures on the purported share certificates and the company asserted that the NCLT would have no jurisdiction to adjudicate such allegations of fraud and only the competent civil court could decide the same. 6. A reply was also filed by Mantena Narasa Raju, respondent No.2, contesting the interim reliefs sought. While reiterating the contentions of the company in its counter, he disputed the appellants’ ownership of the shares. He asserted that he never sold any shares to the appellants and that they were complete strangers to him. He claimed that he had borrowed a sum of ₹5.66 crore from one L. Ramesh, his friend, who agreed to lend him the money through banking channels, by arranging for a total sum of ₹14.66 crore, out of which he would take back ₹9 crore and the balance ₹5.66 crore could be retained by respondent No.2. He further claimed that L. Ramesh arranged for his known persons to remit the amounts in his bank account and it was in this context that the appellants deposited the total sum of ₹14,66,39,400/- in his account. He further claimed that he returned the sum of ₹9 crore, as per the instructions of L. Ramesh, to one Swarna Bhaskar H. (₹7.5 crore) and to one Venkata Surya R (₹1.5 crore), i.e., in all, ₹9 crore. He further claimed that L. Ramesh forcibly obtained his signatures on several documents, including white papers, letter heads, blank non-judicial stamp papers and green sheets, at that time. He alleged that those blank papers might have been handed over to the appellants by L. Ramesh and they fabricated the documents.