framed. 3. Whether The executants of the partition Decided the plaint deed formed a natural group of in schedule Marumakkathayees, that is, the FAVOUR first item matrilineal heirs, and this led to of the property was the conclusion that the property Plaintiffs. the property was tharwad property. of Andippillil Taravadu? [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1023 Ramachandran & Ors. v. Vijayan & Ors. 4. Whether Property belonged to the Decided the Plaint thavazhi of Parvathy, as it in Schedule was allotted to her and her FAVOUR second item son as per the recitals in the of the property was mortgage deed. The plaint Plaintiffs. the property schedule second item property of Andippillil thus belonged to the thavazhi Taravadu? of Parukutty Amma (through Parvathy’s son, Padmanabhan), as the property, obtained through a mortgage deed, was in the possession and enjoyment of the children of Parakutty Amma. 5. Whether the In Ammalu Amma and others v. No alienations Lakshmi Amma and other (1966 made by KLT 32) a Full Bench of the High Neelakanta Court held that the undivided Menon are interest of a member of a valid? thavazhi cannot be alienated. So the alienations made by Neelakanta Menon are void. 6. Whether Both items 1 and 2 were No partition deed thavazhi properties the partition No.6143/1981 deed executed by 3 members is binding on alone does not bind the other the plaintiffs? members of the thavazhi. 7. Whether the The executants of partition deed No alienations did not have exclusive title to the made by properties and that document defendants is not binding on the other 1 and 2 are members of the thavazhi. Hence, binding on the the subsequent transactions are plaintiffs? also not binding on the other members. 8. Whether the This transaction is also not No alienation binding on the other members made by the of the thavazhi, as the property 8th defendant was a thavazhi property. is binding on the plaintiffs? 1024 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 9. What is the Defendants 1 to 8 and plaintiffs 1/15 share (if any) 1 to7 are entitled to 1/15 shares. share to which each of the co-owners is entitled in the plaint schedule properties? 10. What is the There is no evidence to None amount (if show that they have made any) to which improvements to the properties defendants 13 thus, no relief can be granted and 15 to 17 to them even if there was any are entitled entitlement. as value of improvements? 11. What is the -- Costs to as to be borne costs? out of the estate. 12. It was concluded that the properties were tharwad property. A preliminary decree was passed allotting one share each to defendants 1-7 and plaintiffs 2-8 and one share to defendants 9-14 altogether. The relevant extract reads thus: “In the result, a preliminary decree is passed in the following terms :- 1. The plaint schedule properties will be divided by metes and bounds into 15 shares. 2. Defendants 1 to 7 and plaintiffs 2 to 8 are entitled to one share each.