3. Under sub-Section (1) of Section 3 of the Act, the Government has to initially publish a draft notification declaring its intention of regulating purchase and sale of proposed notified agricultural produce, livestock or products of livestock in an area. It is only after hearing objections from public, it finally publishes its notification under sub-Section (3) of Section 3 declaring the area to be a ‘notified area’ in respect of such agricultural produce, livestock and products of livestock. Under Sub-Section (4) of Section 3 the Government also has a power to exclude from a notified area, any area earlier included in it. 4. After a notification is made under Section 3, there comes the process of notification under Section 4 of the Act. Under Section 4 (1) of the Act, a process is given wherein the Government further notifies a market committee for every notified area. Under Sub Section (3) of Section 4, the market committee is empowered to establish markets for the purchase and sale of any notified agricultural produce, livestock or products of livestock. After the establishment of markets by the market committee under Section 4 (3), the Government declares by a notification under Section 4 (4)1, 1 Section 4 (4) stands omitted vide the Andhra Pradesh (Agricultural Produce and Livestock) Markets (Amendment) Act, 2015. 178 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the ‘notified market area’ for the purposes of the Act in respect of the notified products. In short, the above provisions provide that first there will be a larger physical unit called “notified area” wherein the market committee shall establish markets and thereafter, through a notification u/s 4 (4), the Govt. declares a “notified market area” in respect of the notified products. 5. In the year 1968, the State of Andhra Pradesh had issued a notification u/s 3 (3) of the Act declaring “notified areas” in the State where “ghee” was included in Schedule II of the said notification as a livestock product. Thereafter, in the year 1971, a notification u/s 4 (4) was published, which declared the ‘notified market areas’ in respect of the respondent-committee, i.e. Agricultural Market Committee, Guntur and “ghee” was specified as a notified product. However, in 1972 the 1971 notification was amended and “ghee” was taken out of the list of notified livestock products in respect of the respondent-committee, and it remained so for a considerable period of time. We must clarify here that both these notifications i.e., notifications of 1971 & 1972 were issued u/s 4 (4) of the Act and not u/s 3 (3) of the Act. 6. Later, on 15.07.1994, the Govt of A.P. published a general notification directing all the notified markets within the State of AP to regulate all the products notified in Schedule II of the 1968 Notification, which also included Ghee. 7. It is this notification of the year 1994 which came to be challenged by the producers of livestock products and which has now before us for determination. This notification was challenged before the Andhra Pradesh High Court on two grounds.