The Question-3(a) was, “what does the expression “backward class of citizens” in Article 16(4) mean?”The Question-3(e) was, “whether the class, to be designated as a backward class, should be situated similarly to the Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes?” The Question-10 was, “whether the distinction made in the second memorandum between poorer sections of the backward classes and others was permissible under Article 16?” 61. Justice Jeevan Reddy in his leading while answering question 3(b) with regard to identification of “backward class of citizens” observed in Paragraph 781 as under: - “781. At the outset, we may state that for the purpose of this discussion, we keep aside the Scheduled Tribes and Scheduled Castes (since they are admittedly included within the backward classes), except to remark that backward classes contemplated by Article 16(4) do comprise some castes — for it cannot be denied that Scheduled Castes include quite a few castes.” 62. Justice Jeevan Reddy further discussed the issue with regard to the “means test” and “creamy layer test” qua question no. 3 (d) and made a special note in paragraph 792 at page 725 that: - “This discussion is confined to Other Backward Classes only and has no relevance in the case of Scheduled Tribes and Scheduled Castes.” 63. While summarising the issues involved in Question no. 3, Justice Jeevan Reddy held in Para 796 and 797 as under: - “796.-797. We may now summarise our discussion under Question No. 3. (a) A caste can be and quite often is a social class in India. If it is backward socially, it would [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1633 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. be a backward class for the purposes of Article 16(4). Among non-Hindus, there are several occupational groups, sects and denominations, which for historical reasons are socially backward. They too represent backward social collectivities for the purposes of Article 16(4). (b) Neither the constitution nor the law prescribe the procedure or method of identification of backward classes. Nor is it possible or advisable for the court to lay down any such procedure or method. It must be left to the authority appointed to identify. It can adopt such method/procedure as it thinks convenient and so long as its survey covers the entire populace, no objection can be taken to it. Identification of the backward classes can certainly be done with reference to castes among, and along with, other groups, classes and sections of people. One can start the process with the castes, wherever they are found, apply the criteria (evolved for determining backwardness) and find out whether it satisfies the criteria. If it does — what emerges is a “backward class of citizens” within the meaning of and for the purposes of Article 16(4). Similar process can be adopted in the case of other occupational groups, communities and classes, so as to cover the entire populace. The central idea and overall objective should be to consider all available groups, sections and classes in society. Since caste represents an existing, identifiable social group/class encompassing an overwhelming majority of the country’s population, one can well begin with it and then go to other groups, sections and classes.