A. FACTUAL MATRIX 2. The petitioner, M/s Arif Azim Co. Ltd., is a company based in Afghanistan, having its registered office at 1st Floor, Zarnigar Hotel, Mohammed Jan Khan Watt, Kabul, Afghanistan and is engaged in the business of providing training in computer education, information technology, English language, etc. 3. The respondent, M/s Aptech Limited, is a company having its registered office at Aptech House, A-65, MIDC Marol, Andheri (E), Mumbai – 400093, Maharashtra, India and is engaged in the business of providing training and education in information technology through its network in India and abroad. 4. On 21.03.2013, three separate franchise agreements were entered into between petitioner/franchisee and the respondent/franchisor. As per the terms of the said agreements, the petitioner, as the franchisee, was granted a non-exclusive license, by the respondent to establish and operate businesses under the following trade names: I. Aptech English Language Academy (for short, “AELA”) II. Aptech Computer Education (for short, “ACE”) III. Aptech Hardware and Networking Academy (for short, “AHNA”) 5. The dispute in the present case pertains to the agreement entered into between the parties for the AELA. A perusal of the recitals of the said agreement reveals that the respondent company has the expertise in imparting training in information technology and had developed content and established programs for training in computer- based information. The programs developed by the respondent under the brand name AELA included the recurring use of trade names, trademarks, advertising and publicity, distinctive style and character of premises and furnishings, support and placement program for students, etc. The petitioner, desirous of establishing a centre for providing training in information technology in the courses conducted by the respondent with a view to train and educate students to enable [2024] 3 S.C.R. 81 M/S Arif Azim Co. Ltd. v. M/S Aptech Ltd. them to appear and qualify in the said courses, had approached the respondent as a result of which the franchise agreements for AELA, ACE and AHNA were entered into between the parties. 6. The relevant clauses of the AELA franchise agreement are reproduced hereinbelow: “1. GRANT OF LICENSE 1.01 The Franchisor hereby grants to the Franchisee for the duration of the term and upon the terms of this Agreement, an non-exclusive Licence (“the Licence”) to establish and operate in the Territory, a business under the Trade Name “APTECH ENGLISH LEARNING ACADEMY” in accordance with the PROGRAM, on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth (“the Licensed Business”), from the designated training centre located at First Floor, Zarnigar Hotel, Mohammad Jan Khan Watt, Kabul, Afghanistan (hereinafter the center)) set up in the designated territory, unless revoked otherwise by the Franchisor. The Franchisor shall Licence to the Franchisee use of the Trade Name in the said territory for the purpose of running the said center. The Franchisee shall conduct only those courses as are mentioned in Schedule 2. The Franchisee shall be required to obtain the prior written permission of the Franchisor, if so directed by the Franchisor before commencing the licensed business from the said centre.