But social science research, not judicial impressionism, will alone tell the whole truth and a constant process of objective re-evaluation of progress registered by the “underdog” categories is essential lest a once deserving “reservation” should be degraded into “reverse discrimination”. Innovations in administrative strategy to help the really untouched, most backward classes also emerge from such socio-legal studies and audit exercises, if dispassionately made. In fact, research conducted by the A.N. Sinha Institute of Social Studies, Patna, has revealed a dual society among harijans, a tiny elite gobbling up the benefits and the darker layers sleeping distances away from the special concessions. For them, Articles 46 and 335 remain a “noble romance” [As Huxley called it in “Administrative Nihilism” (Methods and Results, Vol. 4 of Collected Essays).] , the bonanza going to the “higher” harijans. I mention this in the present case because lower division clerks are likely to be drawn from the lowest levels of harijan humanity and promotion prospects being accelerated by withdrawing, for a time, “test” qualifications for this category may perhaps delve deeper. An equalitarian breakthrough in a hierarchical structure has to use many weapons and Rule 13-AA perhaps is one. 1498 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 125. The core conclusion I seek to emphasise is that every step needed to achieve in action actual, equal, partnership for the harijans, alone amounts to social justice — not enshrinement of great rights in Part III and good goals in Part IV. Otherwise, the solemn undertakings in Articles 14 to 16 read with Articles 46 and 335 may be reduced to a “teasing illusion or promise of unreality”. A clear vision of the true intendment of these provisions demands a deep understanding of the Indian spiritual-secular idea that divinity dwells in all and that ancient environmental pollution and social placement, which the State must extirpate, account for the current socio-economic backwardness of the blacked-out human areas described euphemistically as scheduled castes and scheduled tribes. The roots of our constitutional ideas — at least some of them — can be traced to our ancient culture. The noble Upanishadic behest of collective acquisition of cultural strength (सह वीीर्यय करवीावीहे) is involved in and must evolve out of “equality”, if we are true to the subtle substance of our finer heritage.” 89. His Lordship categorizes three-fold danger of reservation. According to him, firstly the benefits, by and large, are snatched away by the top creamy layer of the “backward” caste or class, thus keeping the weakest among the weak always weak and leaving the fortunate layers to consume the whole cake. Secondly, this claim of backwardness is overplayed extravagantly in democracy by large and vocal groups whose burden of backwardness has been substantially lightened by the march of time and measures of better education and more opportunities of employment. However, they wish to wear the “weaker section” label to score over their near-equals formally categorized as the upper brackets. Thirdly, according to him, a lasting solution to the problem would come only from improvement of social environment, added educational facilities and cross-fertilization of castes by inter-caste and inter-class marriages sponsored as a massive State program.