Apparently the words “as a Christian Minorities’ Educational Institutions” were added in to enable the society [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1979 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. to claim the rights guaranteed by Article 30(1) of the Constitution and for no other purpose. This will become clearer and clearer as we narrate further facts. xxx 7. Even while narrating the facts, we think, we have said enough to justify a refusal by us to exercise our discretionary jurisdiction under Article 136 of the Constitution. We do not have any doubt that the claim of the petitioner to start a minority educational institution was no more than the merest pretence. Except the words, “as the Christian Minorities’ Educational Institutions” occurring in one of the objects of the society, as mentioned in the memorandum of association, there is nothing whatever to justify the claim of the society that the institutions proposed to be started by it were ‘minority educational institutions’. Every letter written by the society whether to the Central Government, the State Government or the University contained false and misleading statements. As we had already mentioned the petitioner had the temerity to admit or pretend to admit students in the first year MBBS course without any permission being granted by the government for the starting of the medical college and without any affiliation being granted by the University. The society did this despite the strong protest voiced by the University and the several warnings issued by the University. The society acted in defiance of the University and the government, in disregard of the provisions of the Andhra Pradesh Education Act, the Osmania University Act and the regulations of the Osmania University and with total indifference to the interest and welfare of the students. The society has played havoc with the careers of several score students and jeopardised their future irretrievably. Obviously the so-called establishment of a medical college was in the nature of a financial adventure for the so-called society and its office bearers, but an educational misadventure for the students. Many, many conditions had to be fulfilled before affiliation could be granted by the University. Yet the society launched into the venture without fulfilling a single condition beyond appointing someone as Principal. 1980 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports No one could have imagined that a medical college could function without a teaching hospital, without the necessary scientific equipment, without the necessary staff, without the necessary buildings and without the necessary funds. Yet that is what the society did or pretended to do. We do not have any doubt that the society and the so-called institutions were started as business ventures with a view to make money from gullible individuals anxious to obtain admission to professional colleges. It was nothing but a daring imposture and sculduggery. By no stretch of imagination, can we confer on it the status and dignity of a minority institution. 8. It was seriously contended before us that any minority, even a single individual belonging to a minority, could found a minority institution and had the right so to do under the Constitution and neither the government nor the University could deny the society’s right to establish a minority institution, at the very threshold as it were, howsoever, they may impose regulatory measures in the interests of uniformity, efficiency and excellence of education.