v. Life Insurance Corporation of India (ii) appeals against the s of any State Commission; and (b) to call for the records and pass appropriate s in any consumer dispute which is pending before or has been decided by any State Commission where it appears to the National Commission that such State Commission has exercised a jurisdiction not vested in it by law, or has failed to exercise a jurisdiction so vested, or has acted in the exercise of its jurisdiction illegally or with material irregularity.” 10. A bare perusal of Sections 21 (a) and 21 (b) would reveal that the powers thereunder are different and distinct and the powers under Section 21 (b) is very limited. The NCDRC itself, in the decision in Kongaraananthram v. Telecom Distt. Engineer, Ma- Habubnagar2, held that its revisional powers under the said Section are very limited. The said Section provides power to call for the records from the State Commission and to set aside its issued sans jurisdiction vested in it by law or if the State Commission failed to exercise a jurisdiction so vested or if the State Commission has acted in exercise of its jurisdiction illegally or with material irregularity. 11. As noticed hereinbefore, a specific direction was issued under the impugned by NCDRC after dismissing the complaint which was allowed by the District Forum and got confirmance from the State Commission. It is true that what was ed by NCDRC is not for payment of benefits based on the policy bearing No.832471906 but only payment of Rs.1 lakh by way of ex gratia, as offered in the memorandum of the revision petition. Ex gratia is an act of gratis and has no connection with the liability, payable as a legal duty. Going by the Oxford Dictionary of Law, 5th Edition, the term “ex gratia” is payment not required to be made by a legal duty. 12. In the contextual situation, it is relevant to refer to the decision of this Court in Sudesh Dogra v. Union of India & Ors.3. This Court held therein that ex gratia is an act of gratis and it got no connection with the liability of the State under law and the very nature of the relief 2 1990 SCC OnLine NCDRC 24 3 (2014) 6 SCC 486 460 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports and its dispensation by the State could not be governed by directions in the nature of mandamus unless, of course, there is an apparent discrimination in the manner of grant of such relief. 13. In the context of the directions, it is also to be noted that such an offer was made by the Respondent much earlier even before the matter reached the District Forum, but the appellant had denied to accept such an offer. The specific direction, in such circumstances issued in exercise of the revisional power dissuade us to accept the impugned as one dismissing the complaint in toto and in the aforesaid circumstances, the impugned virtually partakes the character of an modifying the of the District Forum which was confirmed by the State Commission.