Relying upon the rendered in the case of Rev. Oswald (supra) and also in the case of “Century Spinning and Manufacturing Company Limited and Another Vs. The Ulhasnagar Municipal Council and Another, AIR 1971 SC 1021” and “Union of India and Others Vs. M/s. Anglo Afghan Agencies Limited, AIR 1968 SC 718” on the issue of estoppel, the findings recorded by the College Tribunal and the learned Single Judge of the High Court were affirmed. ARGUMENTS RAISED 5. Learned counsel for the appellant placed reliance upon the of “Union of India and Others Vs. Gopal Chand Misra and Others, (1978) 2 SCC 301” to contend that the decision of Rev. Oswald 622 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (supra) has been considered and distinguished in the said case. It is submitted that in the absence of any contrary provision governing the employment, prospective resignation given by an employee can be withdrawn at any time before it becomes effective. Reliance has further been placed on the s of “Srikantha S.M. Vs. Bharath Earth Movers Limited, (2005) 8 SCC 314”; Balram Gupta Vs. Union of India and Another, 1987 (Supp) SCC 228; “Air India Express Limited and Others Vs. Captain Gurdarshan Kaur Sandhu, (2019) 17 SCC 129” and “New Victoria Mills and Others Vs. Shrikant Arya, (2021) 13 SCC 771”. It is pointed out that on filing of an appeal before the Tribunal, there was a stay in favour of the appellant till the disposal of the said appeal, i.e., 30.04.2004. On disposal of the appeal by the College Tribunal and during the pendency of the proceedings before the High Court, she secured another job as Principal at M.M.P. Shah College and after joining on 01.10.2007, she worked till the age of superannuation, i.e., till 31.10.2015. It is urged that the period from the date of acceptance of the resignation till the joining in the new college may be directed to be regularized on reinstatement, as otherwise, it may cause serious prejudice to the appellant in the matter of payment of pension. It is stated that, in the instant case, there was no written contract or any contrary Rule governing the service of appellant, hence, it is contended that she was entitled to withdraw the prospective resignation. Learned Counsel contested the finding of implied contract after referring to the correspondence between the appellant and the management. According to the learned counsel, the said finding was recorded without appreciating the contents of the letter in their correct perspective. The College Tribunal, learned Single Judge and the Division Bench, according to learned counsel have relied upon the case of Rev. Oswald (supra) which was a based on the deed of resignation executed before the witnesses. Therefore, the ratio of the said is not applicable in the facts of this case and the findings as recorded are not in conformity with the law. 6. Per contra, learned counsel for the Trust vehemently opposed the stand taken by the appellant and argued in support of the reasonings and findings of the impugned .