clause (b) which deals with post award interest. The ‘sum’ directed to be paid by the arbitral tribunal shall, unless the award otherwise directs, carry interest at the rate of 18 percent per annum from the date of the award to the date of payment. Thus, what clause (b) provides for is that the arbitral tribunal may award interest on the ‘sum’ adjudged under clause (a). But if no such interest is awarded, then there shall be interest at the rate of 18 percent on the ‘sum’ awarded by the arbitral tribunal from the date of the award to the date of payment. The two crucial words in this part are sum and shall. As seen from clause (a), the ‘sum’ awarded by the arbitral tribunal would include interest 1602 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports if it is granted by the arbitral tribunal. Therefore, the ‘sum’ as awarded by the arbitral tribunal may or may not include interest. Whether the ‘sum’ so awarded includes or does not include interest, it would carry further interest at the rate of 18 percent from the date of the award to the date of payment unless another rate of interest is granted by the arbitral tribunal. While granting of interest under clauses (a) and (b) by the arbitral tribunal is discretionary, the interest contemplated under clause (b) in the event of failure of the arbitral tribunal to award interest is mandatory. Therefore, the legislature has consciously used the word shall. 37. Thus from an analysis of Section 31(7)(a) of the 1996 Act, which provides for pre-award interest, it is seen that the provision begins with the expression unless otherwise agreed by the parties, thereby highlighting the legislative stance that parties possess the autonomy to determine pre-award interest on the payment of money awarded by the arbitral tribunal. However, no such discretion is available to the parties under Section 31(7)(b) of the 1996 Act though such discretion is available to the arbitral tribunal. 38. Natural corollary to the above analysis would be that the ‘sum’ so awarded by the arbitral tribunal which may include interest from the date when the cause of action arose to the date of the award, would carry further interest of 18 percent from the date of the award to the date of payment unless the arbitral award otherwise directs. Thus, the legislative intent is that the awarded sum whether inclusive of interest or not, in case included, then from the date of cause of action to the date of award, would carry further interest from the date of the award to the date of payment. 39. Generally, going by the provisions contained in Section 31(7) of the 1996 Act, it is evident that an arbitral tribunal has the power to grant (i) pre-award (ii) pendente lite (iii) post-award interest. Intention behind awarding pre-award interest is primarily to compensate the claimant for the pecuniary loss suffered from the time the cause of action arose till passing of the arbitral award.