Ultimately, the Court held that under the provisions of the Kerala Revenue Recovery Act a debt which is barred by the law of limitation cannot be recovered. 11. The Division Bench, in the impugned , has relied on Bombay Dyeing (supra) to reinforce the point that the statute of limitation only bars the remedy and does not extinguish the debt. The decision in Bombay Dyeing (supra) was a case where the Constitution Bench of this Court reiterarted the principle that statutes of limitation only bar the remedy and do not extinguish the right and so holding, it found that the definition of “unpaid accumulations” in that case did apply to wages of employees that were time-barred. The Court went on to hold that while time-barred wages did vest in the State, since the Act did not, in that case, provide for disbursement of the wages to the workers whose claims could be established and since there was no provision for the workers making the claim, the Act was held to be contrary to Article 31(2) of the Constitution, which then existed. 12. It is well settled that the laws of limitation only bar the remedy and do not extinguish the right, except in cases where title is acquired by prescription. We may note here that V.R. Kalliyanikutty (supra) did not dispute the principle that the statute of limitation only bars [2024] 6 S.C.R. 245 K.P. Khemka & Anr. v. Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited & Ors. the remedy and does not extinguish the debt. After considering this principle it went onto hold that there was no enlargement of right in the Kerala Revenue Recovery Act. The impugned , in the present case, further holds that Bombay Dyeing (supra) and Tilokchand and Motichand (supra) were not brought to the notice in V.R. Kalliyanikutty (supra). The decision in Tilokchand and Motichand (supra) was a case which inter alia dealt with extension of the principles of laches and res judicata to writ proceedings and have no direct relevance to the present controversy. The impugned , in the present case, thereafter goes on to hold that the machinery for recovery under the Recovery of Dues Act or the State Financial Corporations Act do not have the trappings of a Court to hold that the provisions of the Limitation Act have no application for the same. Discussion and Reasoning:- 13. In our view, the findings of the Division Bench in the impugned do not directly address the holding in V.R. Kalliyanikutty (supra) that the Kerala Revenue Recovery Act did not create any additional right to recover and enforce the outstanding amounts due. 14. The real question that arises is do the State Financial Corporations Act, 1951 and the Recovery of Dues Act create a distinct right and provided an alternative mechanism of enforcement to reover the amount due, even if the amounts due were time barred? To answer this question, we need to examine the relevant statutory provisions. 15. The objects and reasons of the State Financial Corporations Act are relevant for the purposes of the present case.