After the deposit of the title deeds the creditor and borrower may record the transaction in a memorandum but such a memorandum would not be an instrument of mortgage. A memorandum reducing other terms and conditions with regard to the deposit in the form of a document, however, shall require 1018 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports registration under Section 17(1)(c) of the Registration Act, but in a case in which such a document does not incorporate any term and condition, it is merely evidential and does not require registration. 12. This Court had the occasion to consider this question in Rachpal Mahraj v. Bhagwandas Daruka [1950 SCC 195 : AIR 1950 SC 272] and the statement of law made therein supports the view we have taken, which would be evident from the following passage of the : (AIR p. 273, para 4) “4. A mortgage by deposit of title deeds is a form of mortgage recognised by Section 58(f) of the TP Act, which provides that it may be effected in certain towns (including Calcutta) by a person ‘delivering to his creditor or his agent documents of title to immovable property with intent to create a security thereon’. That is to say, when the debtor deposits with the creditor the title deeds of his property with intent to create a security, the law implies a contract between the parties to create a mortgage, and no registered instrument is required under Section 59 as in other forms of mortgage. But if the parties choose to reduce the contract to writing, the implication is excluded by their express bargain, and the document will be the sole evidence of its terms. In such a case the deposit and the document both form integral parts of the transaction and are essential ingredients in the creation of the mortgage. As the deposit alone is not intended to create the charge and the document, which constitutes the bargain regarding the security, is also necessary and operates to create the charge in conjunction with the deposit, it requires registration under Section 17 of the Registration Act, 1908, as a non-testamentary instrument creating an interest in immovable property, where the value of such property is one hundred rupees and upwards. The time factor is not decisive. The document may be handed over to the creditor along with the title deeds and yet may not be registrable.” [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1019 A.B. Govardhan v. P. Ragothaman 13. This Court while relying on the aforesaid in United Bank of India Ltd. v. Lekharam Sonaram & Co. [AIR 1965 SC 1591] reiterated as follows: (AIR p. 1593, para 7) “7. … It is essential to bear in mind that the essence of a mortgage by deposit of title deeds is the actual handing over by a borrower to the lender of documents of title to immovable property with the intention that those documents shall constitute a security which will enable the creditor ultimately to recover the money which he has lent.