30. Contextually, it is only apposite to note that the expression ‘corpus delicti’ got no reference to corpses. Virtually, it means that before seeking to prove that accused is the author of the crime concerned, it must be established that the crime charged has been committed. In fact, the said Latin expression is used with reference to the establishment of the fact that an offence has been committed, as opposed to the proof that a given person has committed it. I may hasten to add that, at times, the said expression is found to be used in the sense “dead body of the victim of alleged homicide”. In the decision of Sevaka Perumal & Anr. v. State of Tamil Nadu,8 it was laid down that it would not be essential to establish corpus delicti, but the factum of death of the deceased concerned must be established like any other fact. In the decision of Ram Chandra and Ram Bharosey v. State of Uttar Pradesh,9 it was held that in 7 [1993] 2 SCR 137 : (1993) 2 SCC 435 8 [1991] 2 SCR 711 : (1991) 3 SCC 471 9 AIR 1957 SC 381 [2024] 9 S.C.R. 741 Manik & Ors. v. The State of Maharashtra law, a conviction for an offence did not necessarily depend upon the corpus delicti, i.e., the dead body, is being found. However, there must be reliable evidence, direct or circumstantial, of commission of murder, though corpus delicti is not traceable. In the decision of Mani Kumar Thapa v. State of Sikkim,10 it was held that in a trial for murder it is neither an absolute necessity nor an essential ingredient to establish corpus delicti, but the factum of death of the deceased concerned must be established like any other fact. Furthermore, it was held that in some cases it would not be possible to trace or recover corpus delicti owing to a number of possibilities such as dead body might have been disposed of without trace. Taking into account such possibilities it was furthermore held that if the recovery of dead body is to be held to be mandatory to convict an accused, in many cases, the accused would manage to see that the dead body is destroyed, which would have afforded the accused a complete immunity from being held guilty or from being punished. It was therefore held that what is required in law to base a conviction for an offence of murder is that there should be reliable and plausible evidence, like any other fact, that death was committed and it could be proved by direct or circumstantial evidence albeit the dead body could not be traced. Thus, the law laid down in the aforesaid decisions, which was consistently being followed, would reveal that conviction of an offence referred above did not depend upon whether the dead body is found, if reliable evidence, direct or circumstantial, of the commission of homicide is established despite the non-tracing of the dead body. Having held thus, I may hasten to add that the same cannot be the position, rather, the position would be different, when prosecution itself got a case that the dead body was recovered.