The fatal nature of these injuries, as confirmed by medical evidence, and the circumstances of 7 [2021] 11 SCR 954 : (2021) 19 SCC 181 8 [2009] 5 SCR 242 : (2009) 15 SCC 366 [2024] 12 S.C.R. 411 Kunhimuhammed@Kunheethu v. The State of Kerala the attack clearly point to an intent to cause death or at least an intention to inflict injuries with the knowledge that they were likely to result in death. Even if it is presumed that the appellant – accused no. 1 did not have an intention to cause such bodily injury, the act of causing injuries with knife to vital parts is reflective of the knowledge that causing such injuries is likely to cause death in the ordinary course. 25.17 The defence’s argument that the incident was a spontaneous scuffle does not absolve the appellant of liability. While the scuffle may have triggered the attack, the appellant’s use of a lethal weapon and the manner in which the injuries were inflicted elevate the act from culpable homicide to murder. Courts have consistently held that intent can be inferred from the nature and severity of injuries, as well as the choice of weapon and the manner of its use. The use of a lethal weapon and the deliberate targeting of vital parts of the body are strong indicators of such intent. 25.18 In light of the evidence and the legal principles involved, the appellant’s plea for leniency on the grounds of spontaneity and lack of premeditation cannot be sustained. The nature and location of the injuries inflicted, the choice of weapon, and the circumstances of the attack unequivocally establish the liability of the appellant for causing the death of Subrahmannian. The argument that the act was committed in the spur of the moment does not diminish the gravity of the offence or the appellant’s culpability. 26. Plea of Private Defence: The appellant’s counsel has invoked the right of private defence arguing that the act of stabbing was carried out under a perceived threat to the appellant–accused no. 1’s life. It is further contended that the appellant exceeded the bounds of lawful defence, thereby bringing the act within the ambit of Exception 2 to Section 300, IPC, which reads: “Culpable homicide is not murder if the offender, in the exercise of good faith of the right of private defence of person or property, exceeds the power given to him by law and causes the death of the person against whom he is exercising such right.” 412 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 26.1 To bring the appellant’s act under section 304, IPC in light of the offence being committed in exercise of private defense and thereby exceeding the power given under the law, that is under exception 2 to section 300, IPC – the ingredients therein must be proved. The ingredients for this exception are: 1. The accused must be free from fault in bringing about the encounter; 2. There must be an impending peril to life or of great bodily harm, either real or apparent; 3.