The price in the said sale deed was Rs. 100 per sq.ft. for an area of 1500 sq.ft. This is the document which is Exh.45 in C.A.No. @ SLP (C) No. 6820 of 2023 and C.A. No. @ SLP (C) No. 2753 of 2023 and this document is also one of the basis for the enhancement. According to our conclusion in this batch of appeals, decided hereinabove, the High Court was right in rejecting the other sale deeds. Relevant Legal Principles: 60. It is well settled that in determining the compensation the court would take into consideration the potentialities of the land existing as on the date of the notification published under Section 4(1) (State of Orissa vs. Brij Lal Misra and Others (1995) 5 SCC 203) 61. This Court in Sardara Singh and Others v. Land Acquisition Collector, Improvement Trust, Rupnagar and Others (2020) 14 SCC 483, has held that the rates of compensation awarded in adjacent villages cannot be disregarded if in the given set of facts and evidence, similarity is established. Similarly, in Om Parkash and Others v. State of Haryana (2016) 13 SCC 190, the Court held that compensation awarded in the adjoining village can be considered when there was similarity in potentiality. [See also Special Land Acquisition Officer v. Karigowda and Others (2010) 5 SCC 708]. In view of this settled position of law, we see no ground to interfere with this finding. 62. When there is a choice between an exemplar where the transaction is between unrelated parties dealing at arm’s length and between an exemplar where the transaction is between related parties of a higher value, both of which are broadly around the same period, prudence would dictate and common sense would command that we accept the value of set out in the transaction between 2274 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports unrelated parties. We are inclined to accept the transaction which is at arm’s length and accept the market value of the amount of Rs. 100/- per sq. ft. and reject the claim of Rs. 175/- per sq. ft. 63. It is well settled that market value is determined based on the price of a willing buyer- a willing seller at arm’s length. In Administrator General of West Bengal Vs. Collector, Varanasi (1988) 2 SCC 150, it was held : “8. The determination of market value of a piece of land with potentialities for urban use is an intricate exercise which calls for collection and collation of diverse economic criteria. The market value of a piece of property, for purposes of Section 23 of the Act, is stated to be the price at which the property changes hands from a willing seller to a willing, but not too anxious a buyer, dealing at arm’s length. The determination of market value, as one author put it, is the prediction of an economic event viz. the price outcome of a hypothetical sale, expressed in terms of probabilities. Prices fetched for similar lands with similar advantages and potentialities under bonafide transactions of sale at or about the time of the preliminary notification are the usual, and indeed the best, evidences of market value.