The proviso to the Article mandates that the rules made under Article 229(2) require the approval of the Governor of the State, in so far as they relate to salaries, allowances, leave or pensions. The provision reads as follows: 229. Officers and servants and the expenses of High Courts. — (1) Appointments of officers and servants of a High Court shall be made by the Chief Justice of the Court or such other Judge or officer of the Court as he may direct: Provided that the Governor of the State may by rule require that in such cases as may be specified in the rule no person not already attached to the Court shall be appointed to any office connected with the Court save after consultation with the State Public Service Commission. (2) Subject to the provisions of any law made by the Legislature of the State, the conditions of service of officers and servants of a High Court shall be such as may be prescribed by rules made by the Chief Justice of the Court or by some other Judge or officer of the Court authorised by the Chief Justice to make rules for the purpose: Provided that the rules made under this clause shall, so far as they relate to salaries, allowances, leave or pensions, require the approval of the Governor of the State. (3) The administrative expenses of a High Court, including all salaries, allowances and pensions payable to or in respect of the officers and servants of the Court, shall be 228 [2024] 1 S.C.R. DIGITAL SUPREME COURT REPORTS charged upon the Consolidated Fund of the State, and any fees or other moneys taken by the Court shall form part of that Fund (Emphasis Supplied) 25. Article 229(2) pertains only to the service conditions of ‘officers and servants’ of the High Courts and does not include Judges of the High Court (both sitting and retired judges). The Chief Justice does not have the power, under Article 229, to make rules pertaining to the post-retiral benefits payable to former Chief Justices and judges of the High Court. Therefore, the Rules proposed by the Chief Justice, in the present case, do not fall within the competence of the Chief Justice under Article 229. The reliance placed on the provision in the preamble to the Rules is misplaced. 26. It is a settled principle of law that merely because reference is made to a wrong provision of law while exercising power, that by itself does not vitiate the exercise of power so long as the power of the authority can be traced to another source of law. However, in the Rules, the Impugned s or in its submissions before this Court, the High Court has not brought to the fore any other source of law which empowers the Chief Justice to frame binding rules for post- retiral benefits of former judges of the High Court. In the Impugned s, the High Court merely adverts to the judgements of this Court in P Ramakrishnan Raju (supra) and Justice V.S.