period of three years would start from the date of acknowledgement, which got further extended, by virtue of the provisions of Section 1974 of the 1963 Act, on account of the offer made on 26 May 2018 to pay Rs. 3 crores as full and final settlement of all dues. Hence, as on 2 May 2019, the claim was not barred by limitation. 91. A plain reading of Article 14 of the Schedule to the 1963 Act, which is pari materia Article 5275 of the First Schedule to the Limitation Act, 1908 (in short 1908 Act), would indicate that it applies where: (a) the suit/ claim is for the price of goods sold and delivered; and (b) no fixed period of credit is agreed upon. Whereas Article 18 of the Schedule, which is pari materia Article 5676 of the First Schedule of the 1908 Act, applies where: (a) the suit/claim is for the price of work done by the plaintiff/ claimant for the defendant at his request; and (b) no time has been fixed for payment. Thus, where a suit is for goods supplied and work done by the plaintiff (a contractor) and the price of materials and the price of work is separately mentioned, and the time for payment is not fixed by the contract, Article 14 will apply to the former claim, and Article 18 to the latter. But where a claim is made for a specific sum of money as one indivisible claim on the contract, without mentioning any time when it was signed; but subject to the provisions of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (1 of 1872), oral evidence of its content shall not be received. Explanation.-- for the purposes of this section, -- (a) an acknowledgement may be sufficient though it omits to specify the exact nature of the property or right, or avers that the time for payment, delivery, performance or enjoyment has not yet come or is accompanied by a refusal to pay, deliver, perform or permit to enjoy, or is coupled with a claim to set off, or is addressed to a person other than a person entitled to the property or right; (b) the word ‘signed’ means signed either personally or by an agent duly authorized in this behalf; and (c) an application for the execution of a decree or shall not be deemed to be an application in respect of any property or right. 74 Section 19. Effect of payment on account of debt or of interest on legacy.--- Where payment on account of a debt or of interest on a legacy is made before the expiration of the prescribed period by the person liable to pay the debt or legacy or by his agent duly authorized in this behalf, a fresh period of limitation shall be computed from the time when the payment was made: Provided that, save in the case of payment of interest made before the 1st day of January, 1928, an acknowledgement of the payment appears in the handwriting of, or in writing signed by, the person making the payment.