24. We are not inclined to accept the request of the counsel for the State for a further adjournment of these proceedings, having due regard to the fact that pleadings have been completed and the Court is required to evaluate material that has been placed on the record for deciding upon the legality of the action. 25. The following position emerges from the narration of facts : (i) The State of Uttar Pradesh has produced no document to establish the original width of the State Highway which was notified as NH 730, a National Highway; (ii) No material has been produced by the State of Uttar Pradesh to indicate whether any enquiry or demarcation was carried to earmark the encroachments; (iii) There is no material to indicate that the land had been acquired before the work of demolition was carried out beyond a statement on affidavit that there was ‘encroachment’; 2358 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports (iv) The State has failed to disclose : (a) The precise extent of the encroachment; (b) The width of the existing road; (c) The width of the notified highway; (d) The extent of the property of the petitioner which actually fell within the notified width; and (v) Any justification for why the demolition was required to be carried out beyond even the area of alleged encroachment as the report which has been submitted by the NHRC would indicate that the demolition was far in excess of the alleged encroachment which was to the extent of 3.70 meters. 26. The demolition was preceded only by a Munadi. There was no written notice; and no disclosure of the basis of demarcation or the extent of the demolition to the occupiers. Even in respect of the area allegedly encroached no due process was followed and a written notice was not issued. 27. From the above facts that have emerged, based on very disclosures made by the State of Uttar Pradesh, it is clear that the demolition was high-handed and without the authority of law. 28. At this stage, it may be also material to note the allegation of the petitioner in his letter dated 4 October 2019 addressed to the Secretary General which stated : “a few days before the demolition of the house, my father had demanded an inquiry by the SIT about the huge irregularities, bribes and corruption taking place in the construction being done with a cost of Rs.185 crore, of the 20 km road at the NH – 730 between 484 to 505 km. This had been published in the local newspapers. The local political and administrative people were vexed with us for demanding an inquiry into a construction costing 185 crore rupees, and were seething with anger hidden inside them.” 29. The petitioner has alleged that the demolition was a reprisal for a newspaper report which contained allegations of wrongdoing in relation to the construction of the road in question. We need not engage with this aspect, save and except to the extent that it supplies [2024] 11 S.C.R.