The Chargors have agreed that upon demand of the Security Trustee, they will pay such shortfall or deficiency in the expenses. The learned senior counsel urged that the effect of a contract means as it reads, and it is not open for a Court to supplement or add to a contract since a contract is entered into on the basis of commercial decisions of the parties. 28. The learned counsel submitted that even assuming that a portion of clause 5(iii) of the DoH is a separate agreement, it is manifestly a contingent contract as per Section 32 of the Contract Act. The contingency would have arisen only when the hypothecated properties were sold, expenses were incurred, and there was a shortfall in realisation. He relied upon a decision of the Bombay High Court in the case of Western Coalfields Limited & Anr. v. Rajesh s/o Nandlal Biyani.12 His submission is that the contingent contract ceased to exist when the moratorium was declared under Section 14 of the IBC with effect from 15th May 2018, since after the moratorium, hypothecated property could not be sold either in fact or in law. As the hypothecated property could not be sold, there was no question of sale or realisation. As there would not be a shortfall, the question of meeting the shortfall would not arise. 29. The learned counsel further submitted that the enforcement of security is left out of the domain of CIRP as it focuses on revival of a Corporate Debtor as opposed to the process of liquidation. After the moratorium applies, the enforcement of security becomes impossible. 11 2021 INSC 59 : (2021) 2 SCC 799 12 2011 SCC OnLine Bom 1217 : (2012) 2 Mah LJ 394 2056 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 30. The learned senior counsel submitted that the DoH does not contain any promise by the Corporate Debtor to discharge the liability of any of the borrowers to any other lender. As there are no third parties to the document, it cannot be termed as a guarantee. He submitted that clause 5(iii) of the DoH is found in every standard draft of a deed of hypothecation. 31. He submitted that there are other clauses in the DoH, such as clauses 2, 3, 5 and 9, which indicate that the Corporate Debtor has merely created a security in favour of the Security Trustee, which represents the lenders. The Corporate Debtor has not agreed to discharge the obligations of any borrower. The mere security interest created by hypothecation or mortgage does not constitute a financial debt as held by this Court in the case of Anuj Jain, Interim Resolution Professional for Jaypee Infratech Limited v. Axis Bank Limited & Ors.13 32. The learned counsel submitted that when financial debt is intact, a lender would remain a Financial Creditor and can make a claim before the RP. However, when the claim made by the Financial Creditor is based on a contingent event, a lender cannot become a Financial Creditor until the contingent event has happened and the debt is crystalised/accrued.