It was obvious that development of mineral as envisaged by Section 18 of the MMDR Act, 1957 and even by Entry 50 - List II necessarily would mean extraction of mineral from the earth or from the crust of the earth by mining operations. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1799 Mineral Area Development Authority & Anr. v. M/s Steel Authority of India & Anr. Etc. Therefore, the term development of minerals has a direct linkage with mining operation. Without that, minerals cannot develop by themselves. Therefore, it was held that regulation of mines and development of minerals are interconnected concepts. This was because minerals hidden in the earth by themselves cannot yield profit to anyone and they become minerals only when they are brought out on the surface of the earth by mining operations. Therefore, imposition of royalty is in the context of development of minerals on a uniform pattern throughout the country. It was further observed that the original writ petitioners had failed to show how the enhanced rate of royalty as per the impugned notification had become unreasonable or confiscatory in nature. Consequently, the appeals were dismissed. Mahanadi Coalfields: 20. The main controversy in this case was with regard to levy of tax under the Orissa Rural Employment, Education and Production Act, 1992, on coal-bearing lands. The Division Bench of the High Court of Orissa held that the State Legislature did not have the competence to levy the tax on coal-bearing lands and had struck down Section 3(2)(c) of the said Act as well as the Schedule appended to the said Act. The High Court took the view that the levy was hit by Section 9-A of the MMDR Act, 1957 and was also discriminatory and hit by Article 14 of the Constitution. On discussing the earlier s of this Court in light of the constitutional Entries in Lists I and II and the Scheme of the MMDR Act, 1957 as well as the combined effect of the proposed levy, the civil appeals were disposed of by concurring with the conclusions of the High Court of Orissa to the effect that the State had no legislative competence to levy the cess under the aforesaid Act of 1992. Saurashtra Cement. : 21. In this case, the interesting question was regarding the constitutional validity of Section 9(3) of the MMDR Act, 1957, inter alia, on the ground that the levy of royalty on minerals is a tax and the Union Legislature did not have the power under Entry 54 - List I to enact such a law which denudes the right of the State Legislature to levy tax on minerals right under Entry 50 - List II. The Gujarat High Court followed the dicta in India Cement and Mahalaxmi Fabric Mills and disposed of the writ petitions. 1800 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Goodricke: 22. In Goodricke Group Ltd. vs. State of West Bengal, 1995 Supp. (1) SCC 707 (“Goodricke”), the validity of the levy of education cess and rural employment cess created by the West Bengal Taxation Laws (Second Amendment) Act, 1989 was called in question by way of writ petitions preferred by several tea estates in West Bengal.