Digital Supreme Court Reports “Section 41 of the Punjab Act Section 100 CPC 41. Second appeals.—(1) An 100. Second appeal.—(1) Save appeal shall lie to the High Court where otherwise expressly from every decree passed in provided in the body of this appeal by any court subordinate Code or by any other law for the to the High Court on any of the time being in force, an appeal following grounds, namely: shall lie to the High Court from every decree passed in appeal by any court subordinate to a High Court, on any of the following grounds, namely: (a) the decision being contrary to (a) the decision being contrary law or to some custom or usage to law or to some usage having having the force of law; the force of law; (b) the decision having failed to (b) the decision having failed to determine some material issue determine some material issue of law or custom or usage having of law or usage having the force the force of law; of law; (c) a substantial error or defect (c) a substantial error or defect in the procedure provided by the in the procedure provided by Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (V this Code or by any other law of 1908), or by any other law for for the time being in force, which the time being in force which may may possibly have produced possibly have produced error or error or defect in the decision defect in the decision of the case of the case upon the merits. upon the merits; * * * (2) An appeal may lie under this (2) An appeal may lie under section from an appellate decree this section from an appellate passed ex parte. decree passed ex parte.” 12. In Pankajakshi (supra), the Constitution Bench of this Court has held that substantial question of law may not be required to be framed in a second appeal before Punjab and Haryana High Court. However, the finding of fact recorded, cannot be interfered with even in terms of Section 41 of Punjab Act. The law laid down by this Court in Pankajakshi (supra) has been relied upon in Randhir Kaur (supra) to hold thus in paragraphs 10 to 12: - [2024] 6 S.C.R. 397 Lehna Singh (D) By Lrs. v. Gurnam Singh (D) By Lrs. & Ors. “10. The effect of the Constitution Bench in Pankajakshi is that in second appeal, the scope of interference within the Punjab and Haryana High Court would be the same as the Code of Civil Procedure existed prior to the 1976 Amendment. The provisions of Section 41 of the Punjab Act and of Section 100 CPC are in pari materia. 11. Some of the s of this Court dealing with the scope of the old Section 100 are required to be discussed. In a in Deity Pattabhiramaswamy v. S. Hanymayya [AIR 1959 SC 57] — three Judges, while examining the scope of Section 100 CPC, held as under : (AIR p. 59, para 13) “13.