[2024] 3 S.C.R. 1181 : 2024 INSC 239 Nenavath Bujji Etc. v. The State of Telangana and Ors. (Criminal Appeal Nos 1738-39 of 2024) 21 March 2024 [Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI, J.B Pardiwala* and Manoj Misra, JJ.] Issue for Consideration High Court, if erred in affirming the of preventive detention passed by the Detaining Authority against the detenu and his associates for committing offence of gold chain snatching creating lot of fear and panic in the minds of the women folk. Headnotes Telangana Prevention of Dangerous Activities of BootLeggers, Dacoits, Drug-Offenders, Goondas, Immoral Traffic Offenders Land-Grabbers, Spurious Seed Offenders, Insecticide Offenders, Fertiliser Offenders, Food Adulteration Offenders, Fake Document Offenders, Scheduled Commodities Offenders, Forest Offenders, Gaming Offenders, Sexual Offenders, Explosive Substances Offenders, Arms Offenders, Cyber Crime Offenders and White Collar or Financial Offenders Act, 1986 – s. 3(2) – Preventive detention under – Proposed detenu along with his associates habitually committing robberies, property theft offences and gold chain snatchings from women folk by using criminal force on public roads in broad day light continuously – Registeration of four FIRs against the detenue for the said offence, however, the Detaining Authority took into consideration only two FIRs registered within its territorial jurisdiction – of preventive detention passed – Division Bench of the High Court upheld the – Correctness: Held: Habituality of committing offence cannot, in isolation, be taken as a basis of any detention ; rather it has to be tested on the matrices of “public ” – It is only those cases where such habituality has created disturbance of public that they could qualify as a ground to detention – Inability on the part of the state’s police machinery to tackle the law and situation * Author 1182 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports should not be an excuse to invoke the jurisdiction of preventive detention – On facts, mere registration of the two FIRs for the alleged offences of robbery etc could not have been made the basis to invoke the provisions of the Act 1986 for the purpose of preventively detaining the detenue on the assumption that he is a “GOONDA” as defined u/s. 2(g) – What has been alleged against the detenu could be said to have raised the problems relating to law and but it is difficult to say that they impinged on public – Nothing to indicate that any such statements of people, more particularly the women of the concerned locality, were recorded so as to arrive at the subjective satisfaction that the nefarious activities of the detenu created an atmosphere of panic and fear in the minds of the people of the concerned locality – Furthermore, in none of the FIRs the name of the detenu has been disclosed as one of the accused persons – Detaining Authority could be said to have taken into consideration something extraneous – Thus, the of detention passed against the detenu and co-detenu quashed and set aside – Impugned and passed by the High Court set aside.