The Court observed that if in the selection process it is shown that there was a reasonable likelihood of bias, it is sufficient to set aside the such selection. 31. This Court in the case of G.N. Nayak (supra) again emphasising the element of impartiality in the mind of judicial, quasi-judicial or administrative body held as thus: - “33. Bias may be generally defined as partiality or preference. It is true that any person or authority required to act in a judicial or quasi-judicial matter must act impartially. “If however, ‘bias’ and ‘partiality’ be defined to mean the total absence of preconceptions in the mind of the Judge, then no one has ever had a fair trial and no one ever will. The human mind, even at infancy, is no blank piece of paper. We are born with predispositions and the processes of education, formal and informal, create attitudes which precede reasoning in particular instances and which, therefore, by definition, are prejudices.” [ Per Frank, J. in Linahan, Re, (1943) 138 F 2d 650, 652] [2024] 4 S.C.R. 179 Krishnadatt Awasthy v. State of Madhya Pradesh & Ors. 34. It is not every kind of bias which in law is taken to vitiate an act. It must be a prejudice which is not founded on reason, and actuated by self-interest — whether pecuniary or personal. Because of this element of personal interest, bias is also seen as an extension of the principles of natural justice that no man should be a judge in his own cause. Being a state of mind, a bias is sometimes impossible to determine. Therefore, the courts have evolved the principle that it is sufficient for a litigant to successfully impugn an action by establishing a reasonable possibility of bias or proving circumstances from which the operation of influences affecting a fair assessment of the merits of the case can be inferred”. 32. The case of Gurdip Singh (supra) is a case of similar nature as on hand, in paragraph 3 of the said case, this Court has observed as thus: “3. …..It has been established beyond doubt that the father of Respondent 3 being the Secretary of the Managing Committee of the school participated in the selection of his daughter, Respondent 3 and later on confirmation was given about such selection in favour of Respondent 3 where Respondent 3 by virtue of improper selection also constituted as one of the members of the Managing Committee giving confirmation. In the aforesaid circumstances, we set aside the selection of Respondent 3 as the Headmistress of the said school.” 33. On the other side, learned counsel for the appellants has heavily placed reliance on the of Javid Rasool Bhat & Ors. Vs. State of Jammu and Kashmir & Ors. ; (1984) 2 SCC 631 to contend that in absence of any allegation of mala fide, it would not be right to set aside the selection merely because one of the candidates happened to be related to a member of the selection committee who abstained from participating in the interview of that candidate.