27 Vaibhav Jain v. Hindustan Motors Pvt. Ltd. and within the scope of his authority, is a rebuttable presumption. If the original employer is able to establish that when the servant was lent, the effective control over him was also transferred to the hirer, the original owner can avoid his liability and the temporary employer or the hirer, as the case may be, must be held vicariously liable for the tort committed by the employee concerned in the course of his employment while under the command and control of the hirer notwithstanding the fact that the driver would continue to be on the payroll of the original owner………..” 16. In that backdrop, this Court while construing the definition of “owner”, as provided in Section 2(19) of the old Motor Vehicles Act, 1939,12 held that (a) the definition of “owner” under section 2 (19) of the Act is not exhaustive; (b) it has to be construed in a wider sense based on the facts and circumstances of a given case; and (c) it must include, in a given case, the person who has the actual possession and control of the vehicle and under whose direction and command the driver is obliged to operate the same. It was also observed that to confine the meaning of owner to the registered owner only would not be proper where the vehicle is in the actual possession and control of the hirer at the time of the accident. 17. In National Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Deepa Devi & Ors.13 the question was as to who would be liable to pay compensation if the offending vehicle at the time of accident is under requisition for election. From the claimant’s side, by relying on the decision of this Court in Guru Govekar v. Filomena F. Lobo,14 it was argued that regardless of the vehicle being in possession of some other person, the owner would be liable. Negativing this argument, this Court held that when a vehicle is requisitioned for State duty, the owner of the vehicle has no other alternative but to hand over the possession to the statutory authority and, therefore, the case would be distinguishable from the one where the owner gives the vehicle to someone else on his own free will. Holding so, it was observed: 12 See Footnote 3 13 [2007] 13 SCR 134 : (2008) 1 SCC 414 14 [1988] Suppl. 1 SCR 170 : (1988) 3 SCC 1 28 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “10. …. While the vehicle remains under requisition, the owner does not exercise any control there over. The driver may still be the employee of the owner of the vehicle but he has to drive it as per the direction of the officer of the State, who is put in charge thereof. Save and except for legal ownership, for all intent and purport, the registered owner of the vehicle loses entire control thereover. He has no say as to whether the vehicle should be driven at a given point of time or not.