It only stands to reason that Aldermen should be elderly men with a measure of maturity, experience and standing in the public so as to enable them to provide a valuable input to the deliberations of the Corporations by reason of their expertise or experience in public affairs. The present provisions in the Act do not ensure this. We consider that an Alderman, if he is to play any useful role, should be a person elected from members of the public, residing within the limits of the Corporation concerned, with adequate knowledge, reputation and experience of public affairs and with a background of public service. They can be chosen from persons who have retired after rendering service as teachers, doctors, engineers or government servants. Delhi is full of such men of experience and it will be in the public interest that the talents of such experienced men should be utilized usefully in the civic administration. We recommend that the Act should prescribe these qualifications. The Aldermen should be elected by the Councillors from among persons so qualified by the method of proportional representation by means of a single transferable vote. We recommend accordingly. We also recommend that the actual number of Alderman may be fixed for each corporation at a figure not less than two but more than four.” Committee on Reorganisation of Delhi Set-up Report, December 1989 Part II.” [2024] 8 S.C.R. 215 Government of NCT of Delhi v. Office of Lieutenant Governor of Delhi shall be filled by members chosen by direct election from territorial constituencies in the National Capital Territory. (b)… (c)… (3) (a) Subject to the provisions of this Constitution, the Legislative Assembly shall have power to make laws for the whole or any part of the National Capital Territory with respect to any of the matters enumerated in the State List or in the Concurrent List in so far as any such matter is applicable to Union territories except matters with respect to Entries 1, 2 and 18 of the State List and Entries 64, 65 and 66 of that List in so far as they relate to the said Entries 1, 2 and 18. (b) Nothing in sub-clause (a) shall derogate from the powers of Parliament under this Constitution to make laws with respect to any matter for a Union territory or any part thereof. (c) If any provision of a law made by the Legislative Assembly with respect to any matter is repugnant to any provision of a law made by Parliament with respect to that matter, whether passed before or after the law made by the Legislative Assembly, or of an earlier law, other than a law made by the Legislative Assembly, then, in either case, the law made by Parliament, or, as the case may be, such earlier law, shall prevail and the law made by the Legislative Assembly shall, to the extent of the repugnancy, be void: Provided that if any such law made by the Legislative Assembly has been reserved for the consideration of the President and has received his assent, such law shall prevail in the National Capital Territory: Provided further that nothing in this sub-clause shall prevent Parliament from enacting at any time any law with respect to the same matter including a law adding to, amending, varying or repealing the law so made by the Legislative Assembly.