In some respects, it may be inadequate but that cannot be a ground for challenge of the constitutionality of the law under Article 31(2) of the Constitution. 14.3 That the State Government on acquisition and the vesting of the acquired property would enable the Road Transport Corporation to run the vehicles. Since the constitutional validity of the Act was upheld, the majority speaking through Untwalia, J. did not consider it necessary to express any opinion with reference to Article 31C read with clauses (b) and (c) of Article 39. It was categorically observed that Krishna Iyer, J. had prepared a separate opinion especially dealing with this point but the majority issued a caveat stating that they had not agreed with all that he had stated in his . Consequently, the appeals filed by the State were allowed and the writ petitions filed by the contract carriage operators were unsuccessful. 14.4 Krishna Iyer, J. for himself and on behalf of Bhagwati and Jaswant Singh, JJ. penned a separate opinion while agreeing with the majority on the result. The opinion focussed on judicial perspective vis-à-vis constitutionality of economic legislation. It was observed that the quintessence of the Constitution consists in its Preamble, Articles 38, 39(b) and (c), 31 and the bunch of Articles 31A, 31B and 31C. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 245 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. 14.5 On the question whether the Karnataka Act was in accordance with the public purpose, it was observed that the purpose of a public body, to run a public transport service for the benefit of the people operating in a responsible manner through exercise of public power which is controlled and controllable by society through its organs like the Legislature and, at times, even the Court, is manifestly a public purpose. It was discussed further that there may be a wide range of choices for achieving a public purpose. The State may walk into the open market and buy the items, movable and immovable, to fulfil the public purpose; or it may compulsorily acquire from some private person’s possession and ownership the articles needed to meet the public purpose; it may requisition, instead of resorting to acquisition; it may take on loan or on hire or itself manufacture or produce. All these steps are various alternative means to meet the public purpose. 14.6 The State may require several items to run a welfare-oriented administration or a public corporation or answer a community requirement. If the purpose is for servicing the public, as governmental purposes ordinarily are, then everything desiderated for subserving such public purpose falls under the broad and expanding rubric. The nexus between the taking of property and the public purpose springs necessarily into existence if the former is capable of answering the latter. On the other hand, if the purpose is a private or non-public one, the mere fact that the hand that acquires or requires is Government or a public corporation, does not make the purpose automatically a public purpose.