Upon an evaluation of the totality of the circumstances, we are of the opinion that the performance of the contract would involve [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1197 Parswanath Saha v. Bandhana Modak (Das) and Anr. such hardship on the appellant as he did not foresee while the non-performance would not involve such hardship on the respondents. The contract though valid at the time when it was entered, is engrossed into such circumstances that the performance thereof cannot be secured with precision. The present one is a case where the discretionary jurisdiction to decree the specific performance ought not to be exercised in favour of the respondents. …” (Emphasis supplied) 9. In Nirmala Anand v. Advent Corpn. (P) Ltd. & Ors., reported in (2002) 8 SCC 146 this Court held as under: “6. ⁠It is true that grant of decree of specific performance lies in the discretion of the court and it is also well settled that it is not always necessary to grant specific performance simply for the reason that it is legal to do so. It is further well settled that the court in its discretion can impose any reasonable condition including payment of an additional amount by one party to the other while granting or refusing decree of specific performance. Whether the purchaser shall be directed to pay an additional amount to the seller or converse would depend upon the facts and circumstances of a case. Ordinarily, the plaintiff is not to be denied the relief of specific performance only on account of the phenomenal increase of price during the pendency of litigation. That may be, in a given case, one of the considerations besides many others to be taken into consideration for refusing the decree of specific performance. As a general rule, it cannot be held that ordinarily the plaintiff cannot be allowed to have, for her alone, the entire benefit of phenomenal increase of the value of the property during the pendency of the litigation. While balancing the equities, one of the considerations to be kept in view is as to who is the defaulting party. It is also to be borne in mind whether a party is trying to take undue advantage over the other as also the hardship that may be caused to the defendant by directing specific performance. There 1198 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports may be other circumstances on which parties may not have any control. The totality of the circumstances is required to be seen.” (Emphasis supplied) 10. In K. Prakash v. B.R. Sampath Kumar, reported in (2015) 1 SCC 597 this Court held as under: “18. Subsequent rise in price will not be treated as a hardship entailing refusal of the decree for specific performance. Rise in price is a normal change of circumstances and, therefore, on that ground a decree for specific performance cannot be reversed. 19. However, the court may take notice of the fact that there has been an increase in the price of the property and considering the other facts and circumstances of the case, this Court while granting decree for specific performance can impose such condition which may to some extent compensate the defendant-owner of the property …” (Emphasis supplied) 11.