The contents of the same are extracted below: “Sir, in concern to abovementioned subject, I draw your attention that Dr. Ritu Singh Veterinary Doctor Policlinic Sonipat Animal Husbandry Department was appointed in year 2013-2014 at Nizampur Gohana. Thereafter, Dr. Ritu Singh visited foreign countries 6-7 times without the permission of department. During these visits, she had shown her presence at State Veterinary Hospital Nizampur. During this period (Foreign Trips), showing false presence, self verified and withdraw the salary from Govt. Treasury. During this period, she also presented false medical certificates and intentionally, under a scheme, she withdrew the salary from Govt. Treasury and committed loss to Govt. Treasury. It is requested to you that this complaint be fairly investigated and legal action be taken against her. Enclosed: Information received under RTI. 26 Applicant: Satish Saroha S/o Sh. Lekhi Ram Village Veyapur, Sonipat.” 6.1 Immediately after registration of FIR, respondent no.1 filed a petition before the High Court seeking quashing thereof, on the basis of the compromise with the complainant, which was allowed by the High Court. 7. A perusal of the contents of the FIR would show that it was not the complainant who was the victim with reference to the allegations made in the complaint to the police, to enable the High Court to exercise the power to quash the FIR on the basis of compromise. The allegations are with reference to withdrawal of salary for the period the respondent no.1 was on unauthorized foreign trips and also withdrawal of salary by producing false medical certificates5. When the FIR in-question was quashed the matter was still being 5 The victim was not the complainant but the State. 1008 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports investigated by the police. It was even so submitted by the State in its reply to the quashing petition in the High Court. 8. In the facts of the present case after setting the criminal machinery into motion, which had relevance with the fraud allegedly committed by the respondent no.1 with her employer, the complainant did not have any locus to compromise the matter with the accused when the FIR had been registered. Even the High Court had failed to consider that aspect of the matter. Even though the reply filed by the State to the quashing petition was taken on record but without even referring to the stand taken therein, merely on the basis of compromise entered into between the complainant and the accused, the FIR was quashed. The cannot be legally sustained. The allegations against the accused are of defrauding the State. How can such a matter be settled on the basis of a “compromise” between two private individuals? The simple answer is that it cannot be done. 8.1 The argument raised by the learned counsel for the respondent no.1 that in the departmental proceedings initiated on the same ground, she has already been exonerated is merely to be noticed as this may be a defence of the accused, which was not at all the ground on the basis of which the FIR in-question was quashed, at the stage of investigation.