In my opinion, it would be incongruous with the constitutional intent to hold that the conscious provision for Union supremacy through the insertion of aforesaid apparatus, specifically through insertion of Entry 50 – List II, denudes the States’ power to use mineral rights or royalty levied upon them as a measure to tax land. To do so would simply render Entry 50 – List II nugatory. 22.6 The contention that land cannot be decoupled from mineral rights is attractive at first blush. But, on closer examination, this proposition goes against the cardinal rule of interpreting Entries in the Lists. It is settled law that there must be a reasonable nexus between the nature of tax and the measure of tax. In India Cement, this Court had noted that royalty is only indirectly connected with land and cannot be said to be a tax directly on land as a unit. In my opinion, this finding requires no second look. The contention that royalty can be used a measure to tax land under Entry 49 – List II would, in my opinion, inevitably lead to conflation with the nature of tax that is reserved for Entry 50 – List II subject to any limitations imposed by Parliament by law relating to mineral development. Kesoram: 23. The dictum in India Cement by a seven-judge Bench and subsequent decisions which followed it was doubted by a majority of a five-judge [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1803 Mineral Area Development Authority & Anr. v. M/s Steel Authority of India & Anr. Etc. Bench of this Court in Kesoram. It would be useful to highlight the relevant portions of the said as the real controversy stems from this . In the said case, three sets of matters arose from West Bengal, which, for the sake of convenience, were called as (A) “coal matters” (B) “tea matters” and (C) “brick earth matters”. The other set of matters which arose from the State of Uttar Pradesh was (D) “minor mineral matters”. 23.1 In the coal matters, the constitutional validity of the amendment made to the Cess Act, 1880 and West Bengal Rural Employment and Production Act, 1976 by which the expression “coal-bearing land” was defined to mean holding or holdings of land having one or more seams of coal comprising the area of a coal mine, given effect to from 01.04.1992, was successfully impugned before the High Court. Therefore, the State of West Bengal had filed the appeal before this Court. The High Court had placed reliance on the s of this Court in India Cement and Orissa Cement wherein the levy of cess impugned therein was struck down as unconstitutional. The Calcutta High Court had held that the levy was without legislative competence of the State and hence, was liable to be struck down. The High Court had also concluded that the Cess cannot be said to be on land so as to be covered by Entry 49 - List II. 23.2 A similar cess was levied by the State Legislature of Orissa as the Orissa Rural Employment, Education and Production Act, 1992 on land-bearing coal and other minerals.