In that view of the matter, the conditional approval of DMH-11 granted by the GEAC, is upheld as being independent, reasoned and in consonance with the rules. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1891 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. Constitutionality of the 1989 Rules 26. The Petitioners have also laid challenge to the constitutional validity of the 1989 Rules on the ground that they are violative of Article 14 and Article 21 of the Constitution of India. The primary prong of this attack is that the constitution of the GEAC, in the submission of the Petitioners is lopsided with bureaucratic influence with the same being evidenced by the top three positions therein being occupied by such persons. Before delving into the substance of the challenge, it would be apposite to appreciate certain pronouncements of this Court wherein such challenges were adjudicated. 26.1. In the landmark case of E.P. Royappa v. State of T.N.18 (5-Judge Bench), this Court while dealing with Article 14 and Article 16 observed that : “In fact equality and arbitrariness are sworn enemies; one belongs to the rule of law in a republic while the other, to the whim and caprice of an absolute monarch. Where an act is arbitrary, it is implicit in it that it is unequal both according to political logic and constitutional law and is therefore violative of Article 14, and if it effects any matter relating to public employment, it is also violative of Article 16. Articles 14 and 16 strike at arbitrariness in State action and ensure fairness and equality of treatment. They require that State action must be based on valid relevant principles applicable alike to all similarly situate and it must not be guided by any extraneous or irrelevant considerations because that would be denial of equality. Where the operative reason for State action, as distinguished from motive inducing from the antechamber of the mind, is not legitimate and relevant but is extraneous and outside the area of permissible considerations, it would amount to mala fide exercise of power and that is hit by Articles 14 and 16. Mala fide exercise of power and arbitrariness are 18 [1974] 2 SCR 348 : (1974) 4 SCC 3 1892 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports different lethal radiations emanating from the same vice: in fact the latter comprehends the former. Both are inhibited by Articles 14 and 16.” (Emphasis supplied) 26.2. On similar lines, in State of T. N. & Ors. v. Ananthi Ammal19 (3-Judge Bench) this Court observed: “7. When a statute is impugned under Article 14 what the court has to decide is whether the statute is so arbitrary or unreasonable that it must be struck down. At best, a statute upon a similar subject which derives its authority from another source can be referred to, if its provisions have been held to be reasonable or have stood the test of time, only for the purpose of indicating what may be said to be reasonable in the context...” (Emphasis supplied) 26.3.