Act and also the provision prescribing the options available to a claimant in regard to place(s) for suing for such compensation viz., sub-section (1) of Section 165 and sub-section (2) of Section 166 of the M.V. Act. They read thus:- “165. Claims Tribunals.—(1) A State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, constitute one or more Motor Accidents Claims Tribunals (hereafter in this Chapter referred to as Claims Tribunal) for such area as may be specified in the notification for the purpose of adjudicating upon claims for compensation in respect of accidents involving the death of, or bodily injury to, persons arising out of the use of motor vehicles, or damages to any property of a third party so arising, or both. *** *** *** *** 1214 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 166. (1)........ (2) Every application under sub-section (1) shall be made, at the option of the claimant, either to the Claims Tribunal having jurisdiction over the area in which the accident occurred or to the Claims Tribunal within the local limits of whose jurisdiction the claimant resides or carries on business or within the local limits of whose jurisdiction the defendant resides, and shall be in such form and contain such particulars as may be prescribed: Provided that where no claim for compensation under section 140 is made in such application, the application shall contain a separate statement to that effect immediately before the signature of the applicant.” 17. The words ‘at the option of the claimant’ employed in Section 166(2) and the options available to a claimant in regard to places for suing for such compensation under Section 166 (2), assume relevance for consideration of the moot question. Indubitably, the statute indicates that option lies with the claimant to make application for compensation either to the Claims Tribunal having jurisdiction over the area in which the accident occurred, or to the Claims Tribunal within the local limits of whose jurisdiction the claimant resides or carries on business or within the local limits of whose jurisdiction the defendant resides. There can be no doubt with respect to the position that if more than one Court has jurisdiction to adjudicate a dispute it will be open to the party concerned to choose one of the competent Courts to decide his dispute. Thus, it is obvious that merely because the claimant made the application for compensation not to the Claims Tribunal having jurisdiction over the area in which the accident occurred or not to the Claims Tribunal within the local limits of whose jurisdiction he resides or carries on business, is no reason to dismiss the application provided it is filed before a Claims Tribunal where it is otherwise maintainable. This aspect calls for consideration not solely confining to strict construction of the rest of the provision under Section 166 (2) of the M.V. Act, but by looking into various other authorities, as well. 18. In the aforementioned context, it is not inappropriate to refer to the decision of this Court in United India Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Shila [2024] 2 S.C.R.