He contended that these provisions do not, in any manner, mandate a blanket ban on the arrest of an individual, against whom there is a reasonable suspicion of commission of a cognizable offence, punishable with imprisonment up to seven years. The law only stipulates that the investigating authority ought to be satisfied with the necessity of such an arrest, which has been duly met in the present case. He strenuously 2 Arnesh Kumar v. State of Bihar (2014) 8 SCC 273 [2024] 9 S.C.R. 695 Arvind Kejriwal v. Central Bureau of Investigation urged that the pre-requisites set out in Section 41(1)(b)(ii) had been fulfilled as the CBI deemed it imperative to conduct the custodial interrogation of the Appellant to unearth a larger conspiracy hatched amongst the accused persons and to establish the money trail of ill-gotten proceeds. 9. Mr. Raju contended that the requirement of notice under Section 41A of the CrPC is intended solely to compel the accused to appear before the investigating authority. Since the accused in the instant case was already in judicial custody, such notice would have been an empty formality. He argued that the CBI had obtained permission from the Trial Court, under whose custody the Appellant was. He supported his contention by referencing Section 41A (4) of the CrPC, which outlines the procedure for situations where an accused fails to comply with a Section 41A notice. Mr. Raju maintained that, given the Appellant’s incarceration, the circumstance envisaged under Section 41A (4) becomes inapplicable, and therefore, the requirement of notice thereunder was not necessary. In regard to the misgivings on the erroneous application of Section 41(2) of the CrPC, he explained that the High Court had inadvertently mistyped the provision and that it ought to be read as Section 41(1)(b)(ii) of the CrPC instead. 10. While strongly opposing the Appellant’s prayer for bail, Mr. Raju contended that there was a likelihood of witness intimidation, should the Appellant be released on bail, resulting in the trial proceedings being severely derailed. Mr. Raju also alluded to certain instances having occurred in the context of M/s. Mahadev Liquors of Punjab, thus pointing to the influence exerted by the Appellant, whose political outfit is ruling more than one State. 11. Mr. Raju vehemently pressed into aid his preliminary objection to relegate the Appellant to the Trial Court, who he stressed ought not to have approached the High Court directly, notwithstanding the concurrent jurisdiction under Section 439 of the CrPC. He urged that the Appellant should not be granted any special treatment merely because of the position of power he holds or his political stature. Mr. Raju canvassed that the Appellant deserves to be treated like any other undertrial and, hence, he must firstly approach the Trial Court, emphasizing that the High Court’s jurisdiction is discretionary and should be exercised only in rare and exceptional circumstances. 696 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 12. According to the Learned ASG, the High Court was correct in refusing to exercise its jurisdiction because the Appellant had failed to make out an exceptional case warranting such special scrutiny.