Supreme Court Reports compared to the institutions run by the others will have to be struck down. At the same time there also cannot be any reverse discrimination. It was observed in St. Xavier’s College case at SCR p. 192 that: (SCC p. 743, para 9) “The whole object of conferring the right on minorities under Article 30 is to ensure that there will be equality between the majority and the minority. If the minorities do not have such special protection they will be denied equality.” In other words, the essence of Article 30(1) is to ensure equal treatment between the majority and the minority institutions. No one type or category of institution should be disfavoured or, for that matter, receive more favourable treatment than another. Laws of the land, including rules and regulations, must apply equally to the majority institutions as well as to the minority institutions. The minority institutions must be allowed to do what the non- minority institutions are permitted to do.” 254. Article 30, therefore, is a reinstatement of constitutional values of Chapter III, specifically in the context of educational institutions. It is clear that the crux of Article 30(1) lies in its mandate to ensure parity between non-minority [or ‘neutral’] institutions and minority institutions. Its fundamental aim is to prevent any form of discrimination or preferential treatment, thereby advocating for equal treatment under the law for one and all. This provision underscores that no specific category or type of institution should be disadvantaged or unduly favoured over another within the legal framework. 255. In this light, and under the mandate of TMA Pai [supra], to assert that the neutral institutions are majoritarian by nature, would be ignore the mandate of other provisions of the Constitution which specifically provide for equal treatment for all, protect secularism and diversity and protect individuals and communities against arbitrariness. o. the ugc act and yashpal 256. In relation to the UGC Act, the parties challenging the of the High Court relied upon Section 2(f), Section 3, Section 22, and Section 23, read with the in Prof. Yashpal v. State [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2031 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. of Chhattisgarh, (2005) 5 SCC 420, to assert that universities are necessarily created and chartered through legislative enactments. As per the said provisions, the institutions established in that manner only are legally authorized to utilize the term “University” in their names and confer degrees. Taking this further, it was argued that, if the judgement in Azeez Basha [supra], which holds that if any institution is established by virtue of the statute, cannot be a minority institution, because a University has to be established by and under a statute, no University can ever be conferred the status of a minority institution. 257. As already concluded hereinabove, the in Azeez Basha [supra] ought to be understood in its historical context and does not lay down a proposition that whenever a University is established by way of an enactment, it cannot be a minority institution.