In such cases, we think, the position would be the same as if one of these two grounds was irrelevant for the purpose of the Act or was wholly illusory and this would vitiate the detention as a whole. This principle, which was recognised by the Federal Court in Keshav Talpade v. King Emperor [Keshav Talpade v. King Emperor, (1943) 5 FCR 88 : 1943 SCC OnLine FC 13] seems to us to be quite sound and applicable to the facts of this case.” (Emphasis supplied) 40. Thus, from the aforesaid, two propositions of law are discernible. First, in the case on hand if the Detaining Authority thought fit to eschew from its consideration the two FIRs registered outside his territorial jurisdiction then he could not have made such FIRs as the 1218 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports basis to arrive at the subjective satisfaction that the appellant detenu is a history sheeter. Secondly, if at all the Detaining Authority wanted to take into consideration the two FIRs registered with the police station not falling within his territorial jurisdiction then he should have recorded the subjective satisfaction that the incidence of the two FIRs created “public dis”. In other words, as observed by this Court in Ameena Begum (supra) habituality of committing offence cannot, in isolation, be taken as a basis of any detention ; rather it has to be tested on the matrices of “public ”. It is only those cases where such habituality has created disturbance of public that they could qualify as a ground to detention. 41. The learned counsel appearing for the appellant detenu is also right in his submission that if it is the case of the Detaining Authority that there was no other option but to pass an of preventive detention as the appellant detenu came to be released by the regular criminal courts on bail then the State should have gone for cancellation of bail. Whenever, any accused is released on bail by any criminal court in connection with any offence, whether specifically said so in the of bail while imposing conditions or not, it is implied that the bail is granted on the condition that the accused shall not indulge in any such offence or illegal activities in future. In some cases, courts do deem fit to impose one of such conditions for the grant of bail. However, even in those cases, where such a condition is not specifically imposed while granting bail it is implied that if such accused after his release on bail once again commits any offence or indulges in nefarious activities then his bail is liable to be cancelled. In the case on hand, the State instead of proceeding to pass an of detention could have approached the courts concerned for cancellation of the bail on the ground that the appellant detenu had continued to indulge in nefarious activities and many more FIRs have been registered against him. 42. In the aforesaid context, we may refer to the decision of this Court in the case of Shaik Nazeen v. State of Telangana and Others reported in (2023) 9 SCC 633, wherein in paras 11 and 19 respectively, this Court observed as under: “11.