The main controversy was in respect of refund of excess freight charges said to have been collected by the railways than the prescribed rates fixed on the basis of distance. In that connection the respondent Company had sought for clarification about the actual distance for which the appellant railways gave the reply. As could be seen from the records the actual distance between Ammasandra to Panamburu is 358 kms., whereas the railways had calculated the distance as 365 kms., but they have collected the rates applicable for the distance above 360 Kms. It is an admitted fact that after clarification regarding actual distance, [2024] 3 S.C.R. 1131 Union of India v. M/s Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. the railways had settled some of the claims of the respondent Company regarding excess charges which were within the limitation period. Some of the claims to an extent of Rs.8,85,000/- were rejected on the reason that they were barred by limitation. Under these circumstances, it is necessary to ascertain whether the repudiation of claims regarding Rs.8,85,000/- was justified. xxx xxx xxx 24. In the aforesaid case the principal contention raised by the petitioner was that the claimant had discovered the mistake when the railway authorities confirmed by their letter that they had committed a mistake in charging excess freight on wrong calculation of distance. [...]” (Emphasis supplied) 106.3 We do not propose to dwell any further on the decisions of J.K. Lakshmi (supra) and Mineral Enterprises (supra), and leave it at rest with just one observation that, as long as there is no error or patent illegality in the very genesis or core of a charge that has been notified i.e., the charge that has been made permissible or applicable by sanction of a law, it will not be an illegal charge. 107. In view of the above, since admittedly, what was charged from the respondent was as per the chargeable distance notified and required to be payable by law at that time with nothing in excess, and since the respondent has challenged the very basis or genus of the charge i.e., primary challenge is to the chargeable distance of 444 km in itself and not the incidental quantum of freight levied on the distance of 444 km, and because the same was admittedly charged as per the prevailing law and not due to any misapplication or mistake i.e., as per the old local distance table, this clearly is not a case of overcharge and would not fall within the four corners of Section 106(3) of the Act, 1989. b. Whether the chargeable distance of 444 km was correct or not? 108. The respondent company herein has challenged the very validity or correctness of the notified chargeable distance of 444 km which was 1132 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports payable as per the old local distance table. At this stage, it would be apposite to understand on what basis, the respondent company has challenged the said chargeable distance of 444 km. 109.