5. The other appeal i.e. Civil Appeal No.5526 of 2012 has been filed by the complainants. The complainants in the appeal have not claimed any enhancement though upon a reading of the contents, it is implicit that they are not satisfied with the compensation awarded and that the same is inadequate. The main prayer in appeal is only to grant the special leave to petition against the of the NCDRC but with no other prayer. The relief claimed in the appeal by the complainants has been drafted in a very casual and improper manner with no sense of responsibility. We deprecate the manner in which this appeal has been filed, but in the ends of justice, proceed to consider it on merits along with the tagged appeal. 6. The complainants are father and son. The son was a minor aged about 6 years when he was diagnosed of congenital dis in his left eye (also known as ‘PTOSIS’ or ‘drooping eyelid’) for which a minor surgery was performed on 26.06.1996 by Dr. Neeraj Sud at PGI. The complainant alleges that there was no other defect in the eyes of the son and both eyes had normal 6/9 equal vision and the 2 Hereinafter referred to as ‘PGI’ [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1479 Neeraj Sud and Anr. v. Jaswinder Singh (Minor) and Anr. physical deformity diagnosed (PTOSIS, drooping eyelid) could have been cured by a minor operation which required lifting of the left eyelid a little to make it of the same size as the right eye but the said surgery was done in a most negligent manner. Instead of any improvement the condition of the eye further deteriorated post-surgery. 7. The complainants, thus through the complaint made to the State Commission claimed compensation of Rs.15,00,000/- for the sufferings due to negligence of the doctor and a further sum of Rs.4,55,000/- towards the cost of the treatment, loss of studies etc. In defence, Dr. Neeraj Sud and the PGI admitted that the surgery was performed on 26.06.1996 by Dr. Neeraj Sud who is a qualified post-graduate in ophthalmology. He had three years of experience in eye surgeries including surgery of PTOSIS. During the period 1994- 1996 when Dr. Neeraj Sud was a Senior Resident at PGI, he was associated with about 74 PTOSIS operations. The complainant was given proper treatment with due care during operation and that the correction and reoccurrence of PTOSIS is a common complication of congenital ptosis which could have been set right by repeat surgery. The patient was not examined by Dr. Neeraj Sud after January, 1997 as he was taken for treatment to Guru Nanak Eye Centre, Delhi and Dr. Daljit Singh Hospital, Amritsar. 8. The complainants have not adduced any evidence to establish any negligence in the performance of surgery or treatment on part of Dr. Neeraj Sud or the PGI. They mainly relied upon the medical records of the PGI which were obtained and considered by the State Commission. 9. The State Commission, upon examination of the records, concluded that the complainants failed to establish any negligence or carelessness on part of the doctor in treating one of the complainants and that the doctor had not adopted any unacceptable medical practice which may have caused damage to the patient.