A word uttered in the fit of anger or emotion without intending the consequences to actually follow cannot be said to be instigation.” 5 [2010] 9 SCR 1111 : (2010) 12 SCC 190 6 [2001] Supp. 4 SCR 247 : (2001) 9 SCC 618 [2024] 12 S.C.R. 449 Jayedeepsinh Pravinsinh Chavda & Ors. v. State of Gujarat 20. The essential ingredients to be fulfilled in to bring a case under Section 306, IPC are: i. the abetment; ii. the intention of the accused to aid or instigate or abet the deceased to commit suicide. 21. Thus, to bring a case under this provision, it is imperative that the accused intended by their act to instigate the deceased to commit suicide. Thus, in cases of death of a wife, the Court must meticulously examine the facts and circumstances of the case, as well as assess the evidence presented. It is necessary to determine whether the cruelty or harassment inflicted on the victim left them with no other option but to end their life. In cases of alleged abetment of suicide, there must be concrete proof of either direct or indirect acts of incitement that led to the suicide. Mere allegations of harassment are insufficient to establish guilt. For a conviction, there must be evidence of a positive act by the accused, closely linked to the time of the incident, that compelled or drove the victim to commit suicide. 22. It is essential to establish that the death was a result of suicide and that the accused actively abetted its commission. This can involve instigating the victim or engaging in specific actions that facilitated the act. The prosecution must prove beyond doubt that the accused played a definitive role in the abetment. Without clear evidence of an active role in provoking or assisting the suicide, a conviction under Section 306 IPC cannot be sustained. 23. The act of abetment must be explicitly demonstrated through actions or behaviors of the accused that directly contributed to the victim’s decision to take their own life. Harassment, in itself, does not suffice unless it is accompanied by deliberate acts of incitement or facilitation. Furthermore, these actions must be proximate to the time of the suicide, showcasing a clear connection between the accused’s behavior and the tragic outcome. It is only through the establishment of this direct link that a conviction under Section 306 IPC can be justified. The prosecution bears the burden of proving this active involvement to hold the accused accountable for the alleged abetment of suicide. The same position has been laid down by this court in several s, such as: 450 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports i. M. Mohan v. State;7 ii. Amalendu Pal alias Jhantu v. State of West Bengal,8 iii. Kamalakar v. State of Karnataka.9 24. Therefore, for a conviction under Section 306 IPC, there must be clear evidence of direct or indirect acts of incitement to commit suicide. The cause of suicide, especially in the context of abetment, involves complex attributes of human behavior and reactions, requiring the Court to rely on cogent and convincing proof of the accused’s role in instigating the act.