In the instant case, debit note was unilaterally issued by the employer of the contractor. It, therefore, did not bind the contractor. In such circumstances, it was open for the contractor to sue for its dues without seeking a declaration qua the debit notes. Consequently, rejection of the declaratory relief as barred by limitation, in our considered view, did not have a material bearing on Enexio’s claim against the appellant(s) herein for the outstanding principal amount payable under the contract. And, further, that amount, as shown debited in the debit note(s), was not to be automatically adjusted against the principal outstanding amount payable to Enexio. In our view, while deciding the claim of Enexio, the arbitral tribunal was well within its remit to adjudicate upon the 129 See Padhiyar Prahladji Chenaji v. Maniben Jagmalbhai & Ors., (2022) 12 SCC 128, paragraph 17 [2024] 9 S.C.R. 603 OPG Power Generation Private Limited v. Enexio Power Cooling Solutions India Private Limited & Anr. issue whether such amount should be adjusted or not against the outstanding principal amount payable to Enexio. For the reasons aforesaid, there is no perversity in the award on this count. Sub- issue (d) is decided accordingly. THE ARBITRAL TRIBUNAL DID NOT ADOPT DIFFERENT YARDSTICK / REASONING OF THE ARBITRAL TRIBUNAL IS NOT FLAWED OR PERVERSE 142. The next argument on behalf of the appellant(s) is that the arbitral tribunal adopted different yardstick for adjudicating the claim than what was adopted for the counterclaim; and the reasoning is completely flawed and perverse. By referring to paragraphs 16.03 (d)130 and 16.04131 of the award it was submitted: (a) If negotiations could extend limitation for the claim, it would extend limitation for the counterclaim as well, because both arise from same contractual relationship. Moreover, it is well settled that negotiations by themselves do not extend limitation as held by this Court in Geo Miller (supra) and B & T AG (supra). (b) If the minutes of meeting dated 19 April 2018 could be relied on to hold that appellant(s) had admitted their liability qua the claim for the outstanding principal amount, it ought to have been relied also for upholding Enexio’s liability qua liquidated damages for delay and customs duty. 143. At first blush, the above arguments appear attractive, but, when we test them by reading the award in its entirety, we find that the tribunal did not reject the counterclaims qua liquidated damages and custom duties as barred by limitation. Rather, rejected them on merit. Liquidated damages were denied because Enexio was entitled to 539 days extension for completion; and customs duties were found payable by the purchaser. The findings thereon are based on construction of the terms of the contract with reference to the conduct of the parties, therefore, it does not call for interference under Section 34 of the 1996 Act. 130 See paragraph 15 of this wherein paragraph 16.03(d) of the award has been extracted. 131 See paragraph 16 of this wherein paragraph 16.04 of the award has been extracted.