It further notes that these interlinked man-made lakes worked as a storm-water drain network. However, in to meet the demand for space for construction and roads, the administrators allowed the lakes to be breached regularly. The lakes, which once numbered a thousand-odd, are now reduced to a paltry number. Worse, the rajakaluves that channelised the storm water had buildings built over them. 158. The warning flagged by the City of Bengaluru needs to be given due attention by the legislature, executive and the policy-makers. It is high time that before permitting urban development, EIA of such development needs to be done.” 120. Again, while emphasizing the need for balancing the development along with preservation of ecology and environment, this Court, speaking through one of us (B.R. Gavai, J. ), in the case of State of Uttar Pradesh and Others v. Uday Education and Welfare Trust and Others35, while referring to the earlier s on the issue observed thus: “100. Though we are allowing the appeals, setting aside the s of the learned NGT, and upholding the action of the State Government in granting licenses, we would like to remind the State and its authorities that it is their duty to protect the 35 [2022] 19 SCR 781 : 2022 SCC OnLine SC 1469 : 2022 INSC 465 [2024] 1 S.C.R. 1039 The State of Himachal Pradesh and Others v. Yogendera Mohan Sengupta and Another environment. The State and its authorities should ensure that necessary steps are taken for arresting the problem of declining forest and tree cover. The State and its authorities should make meaningful and concerted efforts to ensure that the green cover in the State of Uttar Pradesh is not reduced and to ensure that it increases. 101. The conservation of forest plays a vital role in maintaining the ecology. It acts as processors of the water cycle and soil and also as providers of livelihoods. As such, preservation and sustainable management of forests deserve to be given due importance in formulation of policies by the State. In this regard, it will be apposite to refer to certain earlier pronouncements of this Court. (a) In the case of Samatha v. State of A.P. [AIR 1997 SC 3297 : (1997) 8 SCC 191], a three-Judge Bench of this Court after referring to the earlier in the case of State of H.P. v. Ganesh Wood Products [(1995) 6 SCC 363] observed that, even while considering the grant of renewal of mining leases, the provisions of the Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980 and the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 would apply. This Court held that the MOEF and all the States have a duty to prevent mining operations affecting forests. It further observed that, whether mining operations are carried on within the reserved forest or other forest area, it is their duty to ensure that the industry or enterprise does not denude the forest to become a menace to human existence nor a source to destroy flora and fauna and biodiversity. It has further been held that if it becomes inevitable to disturb the existence of forests, there is a concomitant duty upon the State to reforest and restore the green cover and to ensure adequate measures to promote, protect and improve both man- made and natural environment, flora and fauna as well as biodiversity.