108. In the result, reliance of the prosecution to prove that the dead body, subject-matter, was that of Shyama is based on guess work than on positive evidence. Result is that unless it is proved that the dead body was that of Shyma, the evidence in relation to efforts made by the accused persons to mutilate the said body and thereby destroy the evidence are rendered like a hazy picture, and do not constitute proof of charge under Section 302 of Indian Penal Code, and, therefore, charge to destroy evidence of murder is not proved to that extent.” 20. A scanning of the afore-extracted paragraphs would show that the High Court had clearly arrived at the conclusion that even if it could take that the prosecution had succeeded in proving that the finger prints kept in the police station would match with the dissected [2024] 9 S.C.R. 737 Manik & Ors. v. The State of Maharashtra fingers of the corpse, it had failed to establish that the finger prints, which were used as basic document to be the finger print of Shama and thereby, that the recovered dead body was that of deceased Shama. Evidently, the High Court held that the evidence of PW-41, Sharad Dayaram Girhepunje failed to prove positively that the finger prints that were used as a basic document to be the finger prints of Shama, taken by a particular person entrusted with the duty of maintenance of due record thereof. It is such cumulative consideration that constrained the High Court to reverse the conclusion of the Trial Court and ultimately to hold that the finding that the dead body was that of Shama was based on guess work than on positive evidence. The aforesaid paragraphs would show that after appreciating the evidence, the High Court held that unless it is proved that the dead body is that of Shama, the evidence in relation to efforts made by the accused persons to mutilate the said body and to destroy the evidence would not constitute the proof of charge under Section 302, IPC. In short, assigning specific reasons the High Court reversed the finding of the trial Court that the opinion on the fingerprint test is acceptable and the prosecution had thus succeeded in proving the identity of the recovered body as that of Shama. After holding thus, it was further held that unless it is proved that the dead body was that of Shama, the evidence in relation to efforts made by the accused persons to mutilate the said body could not be taken as proof for destruction of evidence of murder of Shama. At this juncture, I will refer to the other aspect of acquittal (or conviction) for the offence under Section 201 read with Section 34, IPC, referred to earlier by me as one that also requires consideration. 21. In paragraph 77 of the judgement of the trial Court it was observed thus: - “Whatever be reason, but there is no direct evidence in this case, that all the accused No.1 to 9 had caused disappearance of the dead body of deceased Shama @ Kalya by nothing it to fire”.