The mandate of Section 154 of CrPC implies that every information disclosing commission of a cognizable offence shall be entered in a book to be kept by the officer in charge of the police station in such form as the State Government may prescribe. In Lalita Kumari v. Government of Uttar Pradesh & Others, (2014) 2 SCC 1, the Constitution Bench of this Court while answering the question as to whether the information disclosing commission of a cognizable offence shall first be entered into the General Diary or in a book kept by the Officer in charge of Police Station which in common parlance is referred as First Information Report has critically analyzed the interplay between Section 154 of CrPC and Section 44 of the Police Act, 1861. This Court also had occasion to analyze the legislative history of CrPC 1861, CrPC 1973 and the Police Act 1861 to answer the aforesaid question, whereby it was held that an Information [2024] 2 S.C.R. 799 Shailesh Kumar v. State of U.P. (Now State of Uttarakhand) disclosing commission of a cognizable offence shall first be entered in a book kept by the officer in charge of police station and not in the General Diary. Therefore, it is amply clear that a General Diary entry cannot precede the registration of FIR, except in cases where preliminary inquiry is needed. While an FIR is to be registered on an information disclosing the commission of a cognizable offence, so also a recording is thereafter required to be made in the case diary. Lalita Kumari (Supra), “57. It is contented by the learned ASG appearing for the State of Chhattisgarh that the recording of first information under Section 154 in the “book” is subsequent to the entry in the General Diary/ Station Diary/Daily Diary, which is maintained in the police station. Therefore, according to the learned ASG, first information is a document at the earliest in the General Diary, then if any preliminary inquiry is needed the police officer may conduct the same and thereafter the information will be registered as FIR. This interpretation is wholly unfounded. The first information report is in fact the “information” that is received first in point of time, which is either given in writing or is reduced to writing. It is not the “substance” of it, which is to be entered in the diary prescribed by the State Government. The term “General Diary” (also called as “Station Diary” or “Daily Diary” in some States) is maintained not under Section 154 of the Code but under the provisions of Section 44 of the Police Act, 1861 in the States to which it applies, or under the respective provisions of the Police Act(s) applicable to a State or under the Police Manual of a State, as the case may be. 58. Section 44 of the Police Act, 1861 is reproduced below: “44.Police officers to keep diary.—It shall be the duty of every officer in charge of a police station to keep a General Diary in such form as shall, from time to time, be prescribed by the State Government and to record therein all complaints and charges preferred, the names 800 [2024] 2 S.C.R.