Consideration of the report of CBI dated 27.07.2017 (along with annexures) by the Board of KPCL and their Report thereon 2. The entire matter including the 344 documents produced along with the Report and the witness statements of 67 witnesses have been perused by the members of the Board. The Board has also considered the applicable law on the point. 3. The offence is complained of by Shri R. Nagaraja in his capacity as a nominee of KPCL in the Board of KECML. It is the matter of fact that the nominees of KPCL who have been appointed to the Board of KECML are not persons well versed in mining matters. As KPCL was not capable of handling mining operations, a joint Venture Company was formed. The Board of KECML and the nominees of KPCL on the Board entirely depended on the inputs provided by the Managing Director, Statutory Auditor and other personnel for making their decisions. 4. The Mining Plan for the operationalization of the mine was prepared by Dr. Seam who was a Ministry of Coal official and not an employee of KECML or KPCL. The Mining Plan was approved by the Ministry of Coal when it did not contain any provisions for disposal of the rejects. In such a situation, the Board of Directors of KECML and especially the KPCL nominees (A-1 to A-7) could not be blamed for the non-compliance of the Allotment Letter and there is no act of omission or commission on the part of KPCL’s employees including Shri R. Nagaraja. 5. A perusal of the KPCL Office Notes (Document No.199 to 202) for the period indicates that by way of letter dated 12.01.2009, the Managing Director of KPCL had specifically raised the issue of whether washing of coal is required or not. If washing was 1226 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports not necessary, then the question of generation of rejects would not arise at all. Therefore, after taking into account the office note generated by Shri Purushottam, Shri R. Nagaraja had sought to examine whether washing is required at all. Hence, Shri R. Nagaraja has acted with great prudence to ensure that no loss is caused to KPCL under the directions of Dr. S.M. Jaamdar, MD, KPCL. 6. If washing of coal was not required, then the MoU with Gupta was not required to be approved inasmuch as the main purpose of the agreement was to start the washing process. Although the MoU was ratified, it could not be operationalized specifically Clause 12 of the MoU was not ratified by the Board of KECML. Conditional ratification of MoU does not mean that the Board has dishonestly refrained from protecting the interest of KPCL. (See Board minutes of KECML at Document No.232) 7. From the reading of the Clause 12, it appears that the fact that there was no concluded contract vis-à-vis of rejects inasmuch it was understood that it was to be sold on ‘mutually agreed terms’ and ‘subject to legal clearances’.