f) This Court has held in the case of Special Deputy Collector, Land Acquisition CMDA (supra) that: [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1027 Urban Improvement Trust v. Smt. Vidhya Devi and Ors. “The acquiring authority need not prove actual notice of the proposal to acquire under section 4(1)of the Act to the person challenging the acquisition. As the purpose of publication of public notice provided in section 4(10) of the Act is to give notice of the proposal of acquisition to the persons concerned, such notice can also be by way of implied notice or constructive notice. For this purpose, we may refer to the difference between actual, implied and constructive notice: 1. When notice is directly served upon a party in a formal manner or when it is received personally by him, there is actual notice. 2. If from the facts it can be inferred that a party knew about the subject matter of the notice, knowledge is to be imputed by implied notice. For example, if the purpose of the notice is to require a party to appear before an authority on a particular date, even though such a notice is not personally served on him, if the person appears before the authority on that date or participates in the subsequent proceedings, then the person can be said to have implied notice. 3. Notice arising by presumption of law from the existence of certain specified facts and circumstances is constructive or deemed notice, for example, any person purchasing or obtaining a transfer of an immovable property is deemed to have notice of all transactions relating to such property affected by registered instruments till the date of his acquisition. Or where the statute provides for publication of the notification relating to a proposed acquisition of lands in the gazette and newspapers and by causing public notice of the substance of the notification at convenient places in the locality, but does not provide for actual direct notice, then such provision provides for constructive notice and on fulfillment of those requirements, all persons interested in the lands 1028 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports proposed for acquisition are deemed to have notice of the proposal regarding acquisition.” [Emphasis supplied] Therefore, the participation in the proceedings by the landowners themselves is sufficient evidence that the object of the publication of the notice under Section 52(2) was met and we are of the view that the acquiring authority that is, the State was not required to prove actual notice of the proposal to acquire in this case and the knowledge of the appellants about the acquisition proceedings is equivalent to implied notice to the appellants. g) Therefore, the non-service of individual notices upon the owners under Section 52(2) cannot be a ground to invalidate the acquisition proceedings. We find that the reasoning of the High Court to this extent is liable to be set aside. 58. As regards the validity of the notification under Section 52(1) for the acquisition of the Moongaska lands and procedural deviation as alleged by the respondents, we observe the following: a) In case of this parcel of land as well, the State did not serve individual notices upon the owners.