However, insofar as the Safari at ‘Pakhrau’ is concerned, we direct the State of Uttarakhand to relocate or establish a rescue centre in the vicinity of the ‘Tiger Safari’. The directions which would be issued by this Court with regard to establishment and maintenance of the ‘Tiger Safaris’ upon receipt of the recommendations of the Committee which we are directing to be appointed would also be applicable to the existing Safaris including the Safari to be established at Pakhrau. B. The MoEF&CC shall appoint a Committee consisting of the following : (i) a representative of the NTCA; (ii) a representative of the Wildlife Institute of India (WII); (iii) a representative of the CEC; and (iv) an officer of the MoEF&CC not below the rank of Joint Secretary as its Member Secretary. We however clarify that the Committee would be entitled to co-opt any other authority including a representative of CZA and also take the services of the experts in the field, if found necessary. C. The said Committee will : (i) recommend the measures for restoration of the damages, in the local in situ environment to its original state before the damage was caused; (ii) assess the environmental damage caused in the Corbett Tiger Reserve (CTR) and quantify the costs for restoration; (iii) identify the persons/officials responsible for such a damage. Needless to state that the State shall recover the cost so quantified from the persons/delinquent officers found responsible for the same. The cost so recovered shall be exclusively used for the purpose of restoration of the damage caused to the environment. [2024] 3 S.C.R. 291 In Re: T.N. Godavarman Thirumulpad v. Union of India & Ors. In Re: Gaurav Kumar Bansal (iv) specify how the funds so collected be utilized for active restoration of ecological damage. D. The aforesaid Committee, inter alia, shall consider and recommend : (i) The question as to whether Tiger Safaris shall be permitted in the buffer area or fringe area. (ii) If such Safaris can be permitted, then what should be the guidelines for establishing such Safaris? (iii) While considering the aforesaid aspect, the Committee shall take into consideration the following factors : a) the approach must be of ecocentrism and not of anthropocentrism; b) the precautionary principle must be applied to ensure that the least amount of environmental damage is caused; c) the animals sourced shall not be from outside the Tiger Reserve. Only injured, conflicted, or orphaned tigers may be exhibited as per the 2016 Guidelines. To that extent the contrary provisions in the 2019 Guidelines stand quashed. d) That such Safaris should be proximate to the Rescue Centres. Needles to state that the aforesaid factors are only some of the factors to be taken into consideration and the Committee would always be at liberty to take such other factors into consideration as it deems fit. (iv) The type of activities that should be permitted and prohibited in the buffer zone and fringe areas of the Tiger Reserve. While doing so, if tourism is to be promoted, it has to be eco-tourism.