This position has been recognized and approved by both the TSERC and the APTEL. c) Under the 2013 Regulations, there are two types of licensees: first, those who apply for a distribution licence under regulations 2(d) and 12, and secondly, those already deemed licensees, seeking recognition of their status as such, under regulations 2(h) and 13. The appellant belongs to the latter category. d) Regulation 12 of the 2013 Regulations applies to general applicants seeking a distribution licence, mandating compliance with both the 2005 Rules and the procedures prescribed in regulations 4 to 11. It cannot apply to a deemed licensee under regulation 13. The TSERC’s finding, as approved by the APTEL, that the 2005 Rules are in-built into the 2013 Regulations and therefore have to be satisfied by the appellant because of implied application of regulation 12 to deemed licensees, is contrary to the provisions of the Electricity Act and the very scheme of the 2013 Regulations. e) APTEL erred by agreeing with the TSERC’s reasoning that the requirement to infuse Rs. 26.90 crore in equity was imposed on the appellant under section 16 of the Electricity Act, despite recognising the appellant as a deemed distribution licensee. Conditions under section 16, whether general or specific, must be ‘specified’ by the Appropriate Commission through regulations according to section 2(62) of the Electricity Act. 4. Resting on the aforesaid submissions, learned senior counsel urged this Court to allow the appeal and set-aside the s of the TSERC and the APTEL to the extent requiring the appellant to comply with the conditions stipulated in rule 3 of the 2005 Rules and infuse additional capital to gain the status of a deemed licensee. 748 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 5. Per contra, Mr. Vaidyanathan, learned senior counsel appearing for the second respondent (Southern Power Distribution Company of Telangana Limited), joined by Mr. Goud, learned counsel appearing for respondent no. 1 (TSERC), supported the impugned and and advanced the following submissions: a) No doubt, the appellant, a SEZ developer, may be granted the status of a deemed licensee; however, the 2005 Rules and the 2013 Regulations will be applicable to the appellant as per the law laid down by this Court in Sesa Sterlite Limited. v. Orissa Electricity Regulatory Commission and others12. b) The appellant cannot be deemed to be a distribution licensee on its own without making an application under regulation 13. c) There is a necessity to harmoniously interpret the SEZ Act and the Electricity Act to uphold the provisions of both enactments. The appellant cannot argue that the 2005 Rules and the 2013 Regulations do not apply to it, being a SEZ developer. d) TSERC is empowered to impose general and specific conditions at its discretion. The purpose of requiring the appellant to infuse an additional capital under the 2005 Rules was to assess the credit-worthiness of the appellant as it had accumulated losses at the end of the financial year 2013-2014 and more than 50% of its net-worth has been wiped-out, a fact which is reflected from the Statutory Auditor’s report.