The said illegal construction activities are being undertaken in the Corbett Tiger Reserve, one of the premier Tiger Reserves of the country. 2. According to the said article, a Committee of the National Tiger Conservation Authority (“NTCA” for short) had recently visited the Corbett Tiger Reserve. The Committee discovered not only illegal construction of bridges and buildings, but even the felling of trees. The Committee further noted that there has been violation of the provisions of the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972, the Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980, as well as the Indian Forest Act, 1927. Surprisingly, a single lane road is being constructed in the core/critical habitat of the Corbett Tiger Reserve. Despite the fact that the Committee has recommended that all illegal constructions in Morghatti and Pakhrau FRH campuses be demolished, and eco-restoration work be undertaken 200 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports with immediate effect, no concrete steps have been taken by the respondents. 3. Moreover, despite the fact that the Committee recommended that the Ministry of Environment should initiate action against the responsible officers, as per the provisions contained in the Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980, not even initial steps have been taken even by the Ministry. Therefore, this Court issues notices to the respondents. 4. Mr. Rakesh Thapliyal, the learned Assistant Solicitor General for the Union of India, accepts notice on behalf of the respondent no.1. 5. Mr. C.S. Rawat, the learned Chief Standing Counsel for the State of Uttarakhand, accepts notice on behalf of the respondent nos. 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 and 11. 6. Issue notice to the respondent no.4. Rule made returnable within four weeks. 7. The Registry is directed to implead the National Tiger Conservation Authority as a party respondent in this Writ Petition. 8. Meanwhile, the Principal Chief Conservator of Forest (General), Uttarakhand, the respondent no.5, the Principal Chief Conservator of Forest (Wildlife), Uttarakhand, the respondent no.6, and the Director of the Corbett National Park, Uttarakhand, the respondent no.8, are directed to inspect the site, and to submit a report with regard to the nature and extent of the illegal constructions being carried out, with regard to the persons, who are responsible for carrying out the said illegal constructions, and with regard to the concrete steps taken by the respondent nos. 5, 6 and 8 against such persons, and against the illegal constructions.” 1.4 It appears that in the meantime, Mr. Gaurav Kumar Bansal also filed an Application No.1558 of 2021 before the Central Empowered Committee (“CEC” for short), bringing to the notice of the CEC the following : [2024] 3 S.C.R. 201 In Re: T.N. Godavarman Thirumulpad v. Union of India & Ors. In Re: Gaurav Kumar Bansal "a. Illegal felling of trees in the name of establishment of Tiger Safari in Gujjar Sot, Pakhrau Block, Sonandi Range, Kalagarh Division, Corbett Tiger Reserve; b. Illegal construction of buildings and waterbodies etc. by way of cutting trees illegally in (i) Saneh Forest Rest House toward Pakhrau Forest Rest House.