The materialism has overshadowed the old ethos and the quest for personal gain has become so intense that those involved in litigation do not hesitate to take shelter of falsehood, misrepresentation and suppression of facts in the court proceedings. In the last 40 years, the values have gone down and now a litigants can go to any extent to mislead the court. They have no respect for the truth. The principle has been evolved to meet the challenges posed by this new breed of litigants. Now it is well settled that a litigant, who attempts to pollute the stream of justice or who touches the pure fountain of justice with tainted hands, is not entitled to any relief, interim or final. Suppression of material facts from the court of law, is actually playing fraud with the court. The maxim supressio veri, expression faisi, i.e. suppression of the truth is equivalent to the expression of falsehood, gets attracted. [2024] 1 S.C.R. 611 Kusha Duruka v. The State of Odisha Its nothing but degradation of moral values in the society, may be because of our education system. Now we are more happy to hear anything except truth; read anything except truth; speak anything except truth and believe anything except truth. Someone rightly said that `Lies are very sweet, while truth is bitter, that’s why most people prefer telling lies.’ 8. In a recent matter, this Court again came across a litigant who had tried to overreach the Court by concealing material facts in Saumya Chaurasia v. Directorate of Enforcement5. It was a case where the appellant before this Court had challenged the passed by the High Court6 rejecting his bail application. He was accused of committing various crimes under the Indian Penal Code and the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002. His bail application was rejected by the High Court on 23.06.2023. In the pleadings before this Court, it was mentioned that the High Court had committed gross error in not considering the chargesheet dated 08.06.2023 and the cognizance dated 16.06.2023, which clearly suggested that there was error apparent on the fact of it. The fact which was available on record was that an in the bail application was reserved by the High Court on 17.04.2023 and pronounced on 23.06.2023. Having some suspicion, this Court directed the appellant to file an affidavit to clarify the aforesaid position. There was no specific reply given to the aforesaid query to the Court. Rather vague statements were made. Considering the facts available, this Court observed that there was a bold attempt by and on behalf of the appellant therein to misrepresent the facts for challenging the impugned therein, regarding the conduct of the parties and the counsel, this Court made the following observations: “14. It cannot be gainsaid that every party approaching the court seeking justice is expected to make full and correct disclosure of material facts and that every advocate being an officer of the court, though appearing for a particular party, is expected to assist the court fairly in carrying out its function to administer the justice.