With respect to the first limb, i.e., the perspective of the person applying the law, the standards are made clear in State of Madhya Pradesh v. Baldeo Prasad,175 where while dealing with a constitutional challenge to the validity of the Central Provinces and Berar Goondas Act, 1946, it was observed that the definition of the word ‘goonda’ does not give necessary assistance to the District Magistrate, in deciding whether a particular citizen falls under the category of ‘goonda’ or not. Further, in Maneka Gandhi (supra), a Constitution Bench of this Court, while trying to construe the import 174 Shreya Singhal v Union of India (2015) 5 SCC 1 175 State of Madhya Pradesh v. Baldeo Prasad [1961] 1 SCR 970 [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1105 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 of the words ‘in the interests of general public’ in Section 10(3)(c) of the Passport Act, 1967, observed that the law is well settled to the effect that “when a statute vests unguided and unrestricted power in any authority to affect the rights of a person without laying down any policy or principle which is to guide the authority in exercise of this power, it would be affected by the vice of discrimination…”. After noting that the impugned words in the provision are taken ipsissima verba from Article 19(5) of the Constitution, it was held as follows: "16. (…)We are clearly of the view that sufficient guidelines are provided by the words “in the interests of the general public” and the power conferred on the Passport Authority to impound a passport cannot be said to be unguided or unfettered(…).” [Emphasis supplied] 257. This view has also been endorsed in Harakchand Ratanchand Banthia (supra), where a Constitution Bench of this Court dealt with the constitutional validity of the Gold Control Act, 1968. The challenge made by the Petitioners therein, against Section 27 of the Act, mainly contended that the conditions imposed through the section for the grant or renewal of licenses were uncertain, vague and unintelligible, thus conferring broad and unfettered power upon the statutory authorities in the matter of grant or renewal of license. 258. Hence, to satisfy the first facet regarding the person applying the law, the impugned law must be clear enough to provide necessary guidelines regarding application, and must not confer unfettered discretion. 259. When evaluating the issue from the second perspective, which focuses on the individuals affected by the law, it is essential to adopt an objective standard reflecting the viewpoint of a person of average intelligence within the affected group. Thus, it follows that a person of ordinary intelligence amongst such a class of persons on which the impugned law operates should be able to understand the scope or sphere of application of the law. This standard was observed by a Constitution Bench of this Court in Kartar Singh v. State of Punjab,176 where it dealt with the constitutionality of specific 176 Kartar Singh v. State of Punjab (1994) 3 SCC 569.