135 V. Vincent Velankanni v. The Union of India and Others referred to above and it has been decided that seniority may be delinked from confirmation as per the directive of the Supreme Court in Para, 47 (A) of its , dated 2-5-1990. Accordingly, in modification of the General Principle 3, proviso to General Principle 4 and proviso to General Principle 5 (i) contained in O.M. No. 9/11155-RPS, dated the 22nd December, 1959 and Para. 2.3 of O.M., dated the 3rd July, 1986, it has been decided that the seniority of a person regularly appointed to a post according to rule would be determined by the of merit indicated at the time of initial appointment and not according to the date of confirmation. 4. These s shall take effect from the date of issue of this Office Memorandum. Seniority already determined according to the existing principles on the date of issue of these s will not be reopened even if in some cases seniority has already been challenged or is in dispute and it will continue to be determined on the basis of the principles already existing prior to the date of issue of these s.” (emphasis supplied) He thus urged that the seniority of a person regularly appointed would have to be reckoned based on the merit indicated at the time of the initial appointment and not as per the date of confirmation. To support this submission, he also placed reliance on the Constitution Bench decision of this Court in Direct Recruit Class II Engg. Officers’ Assn. v. State of Maharashtra.18 He thus implored the Court to accept the appeal, set aside the impugned rendered by the High Court, and restore the of the CAT. Submissions on behalf of the respondents: 17. Per contra, learned counsel appearing for respondent Nos. 1 and 2 submitted that the appellant was appointed as Fitter General(semi- 18 [1990] 2 SCR 900 : (1990) 2 SCC 715 136 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports skilled) on 17th January, 1996. The semi-skilled grade is only a trainee grade and in to be confirmed in service and for being promoted to the skilled grade, the employee would have to complete the probation period satisfactorily and pass the requisite trade test prescribed for promotion to the skilled grade. Only on passing the trade test, the employee would qualify for a permanent status and promotion to the skilled grade. 18. He further submitted that it is a settled law that in cases where there are no rules governing the field, it is the placement in the initial merit list that will decide the seniority, however, if the rules are in vogue, then the same will prevail. In this regard, he placed reliance on Suresh Chandra Jha v. State of Bihar and Others.19 19. Learned counsel for the respondents placed reliance on Statutory Regulatory 20 No. 185 of 1994 dated 1st November, 1994 to urge that any appointment in the industrial establishment is done against the skilled grade and hence, the period spent in the semi- skilled grade till completion of probation period and qualifying the prescribed trade test for promotion to the skilled grade is considered only as a trainee grade.