However, owing to the statutory provisions governing motor vehicles, this Court held that an intending owner or buyer of a motor vehicle cannot ascertain the particulars of the vehicle for appropriating it to the contract of sale till its possession is handed over to him after observing the requirements of the Act of 1988 and the rules framed thereunder and such possession can be given only at the registration office immediately preceding the registration. Owing to the aforestated legal position, this Court held that, prior to getting possession of the motor vehicle, the intending purchaser/ owner would not have a claim over any ‘ascertained motor vehicle’. The observations in this would, however, have to be understood in the context of the first sale of a vehicle by the dealer, i.e., where such vehicle has no registration whatsoever as opposed to the subsequent sale of a registered vehicle. 25. Presently, insofar as the Scooty bearing No. AR-11/4474 is concerned, it stood in the name of Bagilu Kri but Md. Nizammudin (DW5) deposed that he had taken this vehicle as scrap and sold it as such to Promod Prasad (DW6). In turn, Promod Prasad (DW6) confirmed that he bought the Scooty as scrap from Md. Nizammudin (DW5). During their cross-examination, nothing was elicited from these witnesses to doubt their claims. However, letter dated 20.09.2019 addressed by the District Transport Officer, Lohit District, Tezu, [2024] 4 S.C.R. 413 Karikho Kri v. Nuney Tayang and Another to Bagilu Kri, manifests that the registration of the Scooty in her name stood cancelled only at that time. The taxes in respect of this Scooty were paid till 26.03.2022, as borne out by Treasury Challan No. 4806 dated 30.08.2019. Though much was argued about this payment of taxes and the fact that the receipt was issued in the name of Bagilu Kri, we are not inclined to give any weightage to it. The payment was made after the filing of the election petition and any person could have done so. The receipt therefor would automatically be generated in the name of the registered owner. We may also note that in relation to the other two vehicles in question, there were actual documents of conveyance and also proof of the requisite forms prescribed under the Act of 1988 being duly filled in and issued by Bagilu Kri and Goshinso Kri. Form No. 29, relating to notice of ownership transfer of a vehicle by the registered owner, viz., the transferor, was issued in respect of each of these vehicles but despite the same, the transferees did not do the needful to get their own names registered as the owners. 26. In Surendra Kumar Bhilawe vs. New India Assurance Co. Ltd.5, the issue before this Court was as to whether an insurance company would be liable to cover the claim arising out of an accident on the ground that the vehicle was sold to another long before the date of the accident but the insured continued to be the registered owner of the vehicle.