In our view, the facts of the present case are broadly similar to the said case. 25. Learned counsel for Trust has placed reliance on the of this Court in BSES Yamuna Power Limited (supra), however, the facts of the said case are different. In the said case, the resignation was treated as request for voluntary retirement however, the High Court counting the past service of petitioner held him entitled for pensionary benefits. The petitioner in the said case was regularized on 22.12.1971. He submitted resignation on 07.07.1990, which was accepted. The acceptance of the said resignation would have resulted in forfeiture of past service. The High Court has treated it as request for voluntary retirement and granted pensionary benefits. Dealing with the said issue, this Court after referring the provision of Rule 26 of Central Civil Services Pension Rules, 1972, clarified that the resignation would have entailed forfeiture of service, and such request cannot be treated as request for voluntary retirement. With the said discussion, the of the High Court was set-aside. In our view, looking to the facts of this case, the said is of no help to the respondent. 26. The of Captain Gurdarshan Kaur Sandhu (supra) has been relied upon by the counsels for both sides, wherein this Court in paragraph 12 reaffirmed the law laid down in Gopal Chandra Misra (supra) and Balram Gupta (supra). The relevant para of the said is reproduced as thus – "12. It is thus well settled that normally, until the resignation becomes effective, it is open to an employee to withdraw his resignation. When would the resignation become effective may depend upon the governing service regulations and/or the terms and conditions of the office/post. As stated in paras 41 and 50 in Gopal Chandra Misra [Union of India v. Gopal Chandra [2024] 2 S.C.R. 635 Dr. Mrs. Suman V. Jain v. Marwadi Sammelan through its Secretary and Others Misra, (1978) 2 SCC 301 : 1978 SCC (L&S) 303], “in the absence of anything to the contrary in the provisions governing the terms and conditions of the office/post” or “in the absence of a legal contractual or constitutional bar, a ‘prospective resignation’ can be withdrawn at any time before it becomes effective”. Further, as laid down in Balram Gupta [Balram Gupta v. Union of India, 1987 Supp SCC 228 : 1988 SCC (L&S) 126], “If, however, the administration had made arrangements acting on his resignation or letter of retirement to make other employee available for his job, that would be another matter. ” In the said case, this Court carved out an exception on the basis of a legal, contractual or a constitutional bar for withdrawal of prospective resignation as referred in paragraph 50 of Gopal Chandra Misra (supra). This Court referring to the “Civil Aviation Requirements, 2009” (hereinafter referred to as “CAR”) made a distinction that the public interest would prevail over the interest of an employee’s own interest. Interpreting Clause 3.7 of the CAR, the Court observed that without appointment of pilots for operating the flights, the public interest would be adversely affected.