The court is not bound to grant the relief of specific performance merely because it is lawful to do so. Section 20(1) of the Specific Relief Act, 1963 indicates that the jurisdiction to decree specific performance is discretionary. Yet, the discretion of the court is not arbitrary but is “sound and reasonable”, to be “guided by judicial principles”. The exercise of discretion is capable of being corrected by a court of appeal in the hierarchy of appellate courts. Sub-section (2) of Section 20 contains a stipulation of those cases where the court may exercise its discretion not to grant specific performance. (See: Jayakantham & Ors. v. Abaykumar reported in (2017) 5 SCC 178.) 28. A perusal of Section 20 of the Specific Relief Act, 1963 as it then stood would go to show as to under what circumstances ‘hardship’ can be taken into consideration in refusing specific performance. It is not possible to enumerate the different circumstances which constitute a hardship. It will suffice if it is noted that the question of hardship will have to be adjudged in the facts and circumstances of the case. In this connection, the observations of the Privy Council in the decision in G.W. Davis v. Maung Shwe Go reported in 1911 SCC OnLine PC 25 throw light on an important aspect of the matter. Among other things, it is observed in the said case as under: “In the absence of any evidence of fraud or misrepresentation on the part of the plaintiff which induced the defendant to enter into the contract, their Lordships see no reason [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1205 Parswanath Saha v. Bandhana Modak (Das) and Anr. to accede to the argument. The bargain is onerous, but there is nothing to show that it is unconscionable. The defendant knew all along that a lakh was the plaintiff’s limit; it is in evidence that he had frequently urged the defendant’s daughter to advise him to sell the land if he was getting a higher offer. It is difficult to say under the circumstances that he took an improper advantage of his position or the difficulties of the defendant.” (Emphasis supplied) 29. Then again, it is necessary to remember that mere rise in price subsequent to the date of the contract or inadequacy of price is not to be treated as a hardship entailing refusal of specific performance of the contract. Further, the hardship involved should be one not foreseen by the party and should be collateral to the contract. In sum, it is not just one factor or two, that is relevant for consideration. But it is the some total on various factors which is required to enter into the judicial verdict. 30. The High Court seems to have been carried away by the fact that in the written statement the defendants did plead that hardship would be caused if they would be asked to execute the Sale Deed of the suit property. 31. The Trial Court had not framed any issue as regards hardship that may be caused to the defendants.