Thereafter, there was another column asking for the post in which they were employed and the period during which the emoluments were received. 28. Apart from this, the justification offered for defending the age relaxation is also available for the grant of excess bonus marks. In fact, as is clear from the background set out above, the creation of the post of ‘Prabodhak’ and ‘Senior Prabodhak’ was to get the advantage of the benefits that the projects gave to the State. At the same time, opportunity was given to all, with the only difference being that by an executive instruction additional marks were granted for project 212 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports experience. The executive guidelines only supplemented the Rules and did not supplant them. 29. Moreover, intrinsically from Rule 13(v) the validity of which we have upheld, evidence is available to show that the Rule recognized the experience gathered from project work stood on a higher pedestal because it was in tune with the nature of the work of Prabodhak. Further, under Rule 25, the Committee was to prepare a list of candidates whom they consider suitable for appointment. 30. In Srinivas K. Gouda v. Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences and Others (2022) 1 SCC 49, a notification was issued inviting applications for the post of Junior Lab Technician. Eligibility and requirements were prescribed. At the time of selection, the Selection Committee decided that out of the 15% marks for interview, 10% of the marks were to be set apart for the length of work experience and/ or additional training in teaching hospitals of the medical college, with special preference to those who had worked in teaching hospitals of Government/autonomous medical colleges and the remaining 5% marks were to be assigned to the personality of the candidates based on viva voice. In the minutes, it was set out as under: “4. …. It was decided that in to select the most suitable candidates, proportionate weightage based on the length of experience and/or additional training to the extent of 10 marks be given to those candidates who had work experience and/or additional training in medical college teaching hospitals and especially those who had worked in government/autonomous medical college teaching hospitals. It was agreed that the type of work in these institutions most closely resembled the working conditions at Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences, Hubli and hence the candidates who had experience in such institutions would be the most suitable. It was also decided to set apart a maximum of 5 marks for the personality of the candidate and his/her presentation and performance….” (Emphasis supplied) 31. The appellant in that case was selected and the selection had been set aside by the Division Bench of the High Court. The appellant secured 9.5 marks in the experience category while the [2024] 7 S.C.R. 213 Mahesh Chand Bareth & Anr. v. State of Rajasthan & Ors. writ petitioner who had challenged his appointment had secured one (1) mark under the component of experience.