Murar, district Gwalior was with the inconsistent report of the Murar police officials and after investigation I.O. has submitted its report to SSP, Gwalior and JM, Gwalior and stated that the case was false. The above mentioned police officials have been suspended after conducting a departmental investigation also they have been named for conspiring the death along with accused Ashok Dixit in the charge sheet that has been presented before CJM, Firozabad in which they have been charged u/s 302, 120B I.P.C… It is correct that the distance of 160 kilometres cannot be covered in one hour and if accused Ashok Dixit was at Murar, Gwalior at 9.30 a.m., then he cannot be involved in the commission of incident at Firozabad at 8.30 a.m. It was contended in this regard on behalf of the prosecution that accused Ashok Dixit is a cunning criminal. He showed his presence there colluding with Murar Police station, Gwalior in to escape himself from the offence of murder. The investigator SHO Shri Baldhari Singh made enquiries after going there, then the whole matter was found forged and the investigator gave an application to SSP Gwalior in this regard and also submitted an application before JM Gwalior 788 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports Madhya Pradesh and keeping the investigation in progress, it was found that in to save accused Ashok Dixit from the heinous crime like murder, the forged arrest and his release on bail has been shown by the police of Murar police station. SSP Gwalior, on investigation, finding the whole case forged, has suspended all the officials involved in the said matter and initiated departmental inquiry against them and after collecting the evidence in the said case, a charge sheet has been filed in the court of CJM Firozabad against the said police officials Niranjan Upadhyay, T.I. Police Station Murar, Gwalior and Shailendra Singh and Triloki Gaur and ASI P.P. Gunkar, Head constable Vijay Bahadur and Head Constable. Rambaran Yadav under Section 147, 148, 149, 307, 302, 201, 120B IPC with regard to give cooperation in the conspiracy of murder under Section 120B IPC. A case No. 67 A/2008 State Versus Niranjan and others is pending in that regard in the court of CJM Firozabad and the warrant of the arrest of the accused persons have been issued. The said file pending in the court of CJM was summoned on behalf of the prosecution in this regard, which is available on the file of the instant session trial which makes it clear that accused Ashok Dixit has shown his presence at 9.30 a.m. on the day of incident showing his arrest under Section 34 of Excise Act in to escape from the case of murder of Suman Prakash colluding with the police officials of police station Murar, District Gwalior, Madhya Pradesh which was found forged in the investigation and charge sheet has been filed against the said police officials involving them in the conspiracy of murder and in to save accused Ashok Dixit from punishment, the case of the same is pending in the court of CJM, Firozabad and warrant of arrest against all the police officials have been issued and SSP Gwalior has suspended them and departmental inquiry has been initiated against them.