The evidence of the circumstance, simpliciter, that the accused pointed out to the police officer, the place where the dead body of the kidnapped boy was found and on their pointing out the body was exhumed, would be admissible as conduct under Section 8 irrespective of the fact whether the statement made by the accused contemporaneously with or antecedent to such conduct falls within the purview of Section 27 or not as held by this Court in Prakash Chand v. State (Delhi Admn.) [(1979) 3 SCC 90 : 1979 SCC (Cri) 656 : AIR 1979 SC 400] . Even if we hold that the disclosure statement made by the accused-appellants (Exts. P-15 and P-16) is not admissible under Section 27 of the Evidence Act, still it is relevant under Section 8. [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1085 Sambhubhai Raisangbhai Padhiyar v. State of Gujarat The evidence of the investigating officer and PWs 1, 2, 7 and PW 4 the spot mahazar witness that the accused had taken them to the spot and pointed out the place where the dead body was buried, is an admissible piece of evidence under Section 8 as the conduct of the accused. Presence of A-1 and A-2 at a place where ransom demand was to be fulfilled and their action of fleeing on spotting the police party is a relevant circumstance and are admissible under Section 8 of the Evidence Act.” We take this as an additional link in the chain of circumstances. Circumstance No. 5: Matching of Blood Group 25. Blood group on the clothes of the deceased tallied with the blood group of the accused as per Exh.50, the Serological Analysis Report. PW-9 the father of the deceased identified the clothes worn by the deceased on the fateful day. PW-17 the Investigating Officer Gajendra Kumar has clearly deposed that the apparel of the deceased was recovered near the situs of the crime. PW-7 Dr. Kamlesh Kumar who medically examined the appellant deposed that samples of pubic hair, blood, saliva, semen and nails were obtained of the accused and he further deposed that the samples were sealed and the Muddamal was sent for further investigation through police constable to FSL, Surat. Coming back to PW-17, he deposed about receiving the sealed samples and keeping it in safe custody. Thereafter, he deposed that a forwarding note was prepared for analysis of the aforementioned Muddamal and the sealed samples to FSL, Surat and that a constable was deputed to submit the same to FSL, Surat. The receipt obtained was duly filed. The Biological and Serological Reports received from FSL, Surat were marked as Exh.49 and Exh.50 respectively. The Serological analysis clearly showed that the small trouser (leggings), the anal swab (semen) and the perianal swab (semen) had blood of group O. The accused had also blood group O. We are satisfied with the chain of custody as emerging from the evidence. The defence has a case that sample mark H mentioned in Exh.47 which is the forwarding letter to the forensic science laboratory has neither been analyzed in the biological analysis Exh.49 or in the serological analysis Exh.50 and hence tampering cannot be ruled out.