The Bar Councils conduct activities related to providing advocates knowledge about the substantive and procedural aspects of law. Many SBCs have published books and manuals and assisted members of the legal profession in acquiring the practical skills required for the successful pursuit of a career as an advocate. The Bar Councils conduct welfare schemes for advocates. During the period of the Covid pandemic and even at other times, the Bar Councils have stepped in to provide relief to advocates and their families. In doing so many Bar Councils have provided significant aid to advocates. The enrolment fee and other miscellaneous fees are the only source of income available to the SBCs to perform their functions under the Advocates Act and implement welfare schemes for advocates. 58 In Re Sanjiv Dutta, Deputy Secretary, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting (1995) 3 SCC 619 [20]; Ajitsinh Arjunsinh Gohil v. Bar Council of Gujarat (2017) 5 SCC 465 [39] [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1521 Gaurav Kumar v. Union of India and Ors. However, the imposition of the enrolment fee and other miscellaneous fees by the SBCs must be consistent with the Constitution and the scheme of the Advocates Act. F. SBCs cannot charge enrolment fees beyond the mandate of Section 24(1)(f) i. Legislative Scheme 45. Parliament has enacted the Advocates Act under Article 246 read with Entries 77 and 78 of List I to deal with legal practitioners and their qualifications, enrolment, right to practice, and discipline. The Advocates Act establishes the SBCs and the BCI to create a common all-India bar. The SBCs have been entrusted with the function of admitting persons as advocates on the State roll. Persons who are admitted on the roll are entitled to the right to practice in all courts, tribunals, or authority throughout the territory of India.59 46. Sections 15 and 28 of the Advocates Act vests a rule-making power in the SBCs. The rule-making power under Section 15 is available to both the SBCs and the BCI. Section 15(1) specifies that a Bar Council “may make rules to carry out the purposes of this Chapter.” A Bar Council can make rules providing for the election of members, Chairman and Vice-Chairman, filing of casual vacancies, constitution of one or more funds to give financial assistance or legal aid or advice, organization of legal aid, etc. Section 15(3) provides that no rule made by the SBCs shall have effect unless it is approved by the BCI. Thus, the scope of the rule-making powers of the SBCs and the BCI under Section 15 pertains to the subjects in Chapter II. Other than Section 15, Chapter II comprises of Sections 3 to 14: (a) Section 3 provides for establishment of the SBCs; (b) Section 4 establishes the BCI; (c) Section 5 provides that every Bar Council should be a body corporate; (d) Section 6 lays down the functions of the SBCs; (e) Section 7 lays down the functions of the BCI; 59 Section 30, Advocates Act 1522 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (f) Section 7A pertains to membership in international bodies; (g) Section 8 specifies terms of office of the members of the SBCs; (h) Section 8A talks about constitution of a special committee in the absence of an election; (i) Section 9 deals with disciplinary committees; (j) Section 9A talks about constitution of legal aid committees; (k) Section 10 provides for constitution of committees other than disciplinary committees; (l) Section 10A pertains to transaction of business by Bar Councils and committees; (m) Section 11 allows Bar Councils to appoint staff; (n) Section 12 mandates Bar Councils to maintain books of account for audit; (o) Section 13 provides that vacancies in Bar Councils cannot be a ground to challenge the validity of acts done by a Bar Council; and (p) Section 14 pertains to challenges to elections to Bar Councils.