Of course, an apology must be offered and that too clearly and at the earliest opportunity. However, even if the apology is not belated but the court finds it to be without real contrition and remorse, and finds that it was merely tendered as a weapon of defence, the court may refuse to accept it. If the apology is offered at the time when the contemnor finds that the court is going to impose punishment, it ceases to be an apology and becomes an act of a cringing coward. 19. This Court has clearly laid down that an apology tendered is not to be accepted as a matter of course and the court is not bound to accept the same. The court is competent to reject the apology and impose the punishment recording reasons for the same. The use of insulting language (sic and later on tendering an apology) does not absolve the contemnor on any count whatsoever. If the words are calculated and clearly intended to cause any insult, an apology, if tendered and lack penitence, regret or contrition, does not deserve to be accepted.” (emphasis added) 28 [1984] 3 SCR 833 : (1984) 3 SCC 405 29 (2006) 5 SCC 1 444 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 47. In T.M.A. Pai Foundation and Others v. State of Karnataka and Others,30 on noticing that the s passed by this Court were assigned a distorted interpretation by judicial officers, who subsequently tendered an unqualified apology for their conduct, the said apologies were firmly rejected with the following observations : “10. All the five officers, viz., Shri Arvind Choudhari, Capt. Shaikh, Smt Joyce Sankaran, Shri P.S. Mane and Shri B.G. More, have no doubt tendered unqualified apology to this Court but in the facts and circumstances stated above, it would be a travesty of justice to accept the same. They are senior and experienced officers and must be presumed to know that under the constitutional scheme obtaining in this country, s of this Court have to be obeyed implicitly and that s of the Apex Court — for that matter, any Court — should not be trifled with. We have found hereinabove that they have acted deliberately to subvert the s of this Court, evidently at the instance of the Association of Private Medical Colleges. It is equally necessary to erase an impression which appears to be gaining ground that the ‘mantra’ of unconditional apology is a complete answer to violations and infractions of the s of this Court. 11. Accordingly, we reject the “unconditional apology” tendered by the five officers, hold them guilty of contempt of court and do hereby censure their conduct. A copy of this shall form part of the Annual Confidential Reports/ Record of Service of each of the said officers.” (emphasis added) 48. In Balwantbhai Somabhai Bhandari (supra), where the contemnors sold the suit property in violation of an undertaking given to the court, this Court rejected the apologies tendered holding that the same should not be accepted as a matter of course and the Court is not bound to accept the same.