Some acts may be termed both as unlawful as well as deceitful, and such acts alone will fall within the purview of Section 420 IPC. It must also be understood that a statement of fact is deemed ‘deceitful’ when it is false, and is knowingly or recklessly made with the intent that it shall be acted upon by another person, resulting in damage or loss.2 ‘Cheating’ therefore, generally involves a preceding deceitful act that dishonestly induces a person to deliver any property or any part of a valuable security, prompting the induced person to undertake the said act, which they would not have done but for the inducement. 13. The term ‘property’ employed in Section 420 IPC has a well-defined connotation. Every species of valuable right or interest that is subject to ownership and has an exchangeable value – is ordinarily understood as ‘property’. It also describes one’s exclusive right to possess, use and dispose of a thing. The IPC itself defines the term ‘moveable property’ as, “intended to include corporeal property of every description, except land and things attached to the earth or permanently fastened to anything which is attached to the earth.” Whereas immoveable property is generally understood to mean land, benefits arising out of land and things attached or permanently fastened to the earth. 14. Having fully addressed the contours of the offence of ‘cheating’, let us now advert to the facts of the instant case to appreciate whether the allegations made by Respondent No. 2, are sufficient to prima 2 P. Ramanatha Aiyar, Advanced Law Lexicon, 6th Edition, Vol. 1, pg. 903. 634 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports facie establish that: (i) the Appellants have deceived Respondent No. 2; (ii) Respondent No. 2 was induced with dishonest intentions; (iii) such inducement was for the delivery of any property or valuable security; and (iv) as a result of such an act, Respondent No. 2 has suffered some damage or injury. 15. Each of these ingredients need to be analysed to ascertain whether Respondent No. 2 has made allegations in his complaint to substantiate points (i) to (iv) above. Additionally, it would also aid in determining whether the original or supplementary chargesheet addresses any of these ingredients. 16. The crux of Respondent No. 2’s allegations is that the Appellants purportedly forged his signature on the passport application submitted to obtain the minor child’s passport. Assuming the allegation to be accurate, it would undoubtedly constitute an unlawful act. However, as set out earlier, it is crucial to underscore that not every unlawful act automatically qualifies as ‘deceitful’. In the peculiar facts and circumstances of this case, the Appellant – wife seems to have breached the notion of mutual marital trust and unauthorizedly projected Respondent No. 2’s consent in obtaining the passport for their minor child. It, however, remains a question as to how such an act can be labelled as ‘deceitful’. The motivations prompting either of the Appellants to procure a passport for the minor child were not rooted in deceit.