105(2) and 194(2) in the manner proposed in the majority in PV Narasimha Rao’s case results in a paradoxical outcome – Such an interpretation results in a situation where a legislator is rewarded with immunity when they accept a bribe and follow through by voting in the agreed direction – On the other hand, a legislator who agrees to accept a bribe, but may eventually decide to vote independently will be prosecuted – Such an interpretation belies not only the text of Arts. 105 and 194 but also the purpose of conferring parliamentary privilege on members of the legislature – Offence of bribery is agnostic to the performance of the agreed action and crystallizes on the exchange of illegal gratification – It does not matter whether the vote is cast in the agreed direction or if the vote is cast at all – Offence of bribery is complete at the point in time when the legislator accepts the bribe – Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 – s. 7. [Paras 117, 126, 188.11] Constitution of India – Arts. 105 and 194 – Parliamentary privileges – Votes casted by elected members of the state legislative assembly in an election to the Rajya Sabha, if protected by Art. 194(2): Held: Voting for elections to the Rajya Sabha falls within the ambit of Art.194(2) – Text of Art. 194 consciously uses the term ‘Legislature’ instead of ‘House’ to include parliamentary processes which do not necessarily take place on the floor of the House or involve ‘lawmaking’ in its pedantic sense – Rajya Sabha or the Council of States performs an integral function in the working of the democracy and the role played by Rajya Sabha constitutes a part of the basic structure of the Constitution – Role played by elected members of the state legislative assemblies in electing members of Rajya Sabha is significant and requires utmost protection to ensure that vote is exercised freely and without fear of legal persecution – Any other interpretation belies the text of Art.194(2) and the purpose of parliamentary privilege – Protection Arts. 105 and 194 colloquially called “parliamentary privilege” and not “legislative 468 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports privilege” – It cannot be restricted to only law-making on the floor of the House but extends to other powers and responsibilities of elected members, taking place in the Legislature or Parliament, even when the House is not sitting. [Paras 180, 187] Constitution of India – Art. 194 – Use of the term “Legislature” instead of the “House of Legislature” at appropriate places – Effect: Held: It is evident from the drafting of the provision that the two terms have not been used interchangeably – First limb of Art. 194(2) pertains to “anything said or any vote given by him in the Legislature or any committee thereof” – However, in the second limb, the phrase used is “in respect of the publication by or under the authority of a House of such a Legislature of any report, paper, votes, or proceedings” – There is a clear departure from the term ‘Legislature’ used in the first limb, to use the term “House of such a Legislature” in the second limb of the provision – Provision creates a distinction between the two – Terms “House of Legislature” and “Legislature” have different connotations – “House of Legislature” refers to the juridical body, which is summoned by the Governor pursuant to Art.