The existence of the forest is necessary for the protection of tigers. In turn, if the tiger is protected, the ecosystem which revolves around him is also protected. The tiger represents the apex of the animal pyramid and the protection of their habitat must be a priority. “A healthy tiger population is an indicator of sustainable development in the 13 tiger range countries”1. 1 Midori Paxton [2024] 3 S.C.R. 197 In Re: T.N. Godavarman Thirumulpad v. Union of India & Ors. In Re: Gaurav Kumar Bansal In spite of such an importance given to the tiger and many statutory provisions enacted for the conservation and protection of the tiger, the present case depicts a sorry state of affairs as to how human greed has led to devastating one of the most celebrated abodes of tigers i.e. the Corbett Tiger Reserve. When we consider this issue, it will also be apposite to refer to the restoration experiment at the Yellowstone National Park of the United States of America. The impact of the absence of carnivores in a forest and the regenerative effect on their re-introduction was witnessed in the recent past in the famous Yellowstone National Park. Wolves were hunted down by the mankind and the last recorded wolf in the park was shot down by a park ranger in the year 1926. Resultantly, owing to lack of apex predators in the park, the population of deer and other herbivores rose significantly. Efforts made by humans to control the herbivore population proved unsuccessful and resultantly these animals grazed away the vegetation which had the cascading effect of soil erosion and depletion of forest. As an ambitious restoration experiment, the scientists re-introduced a pack of wolves in the Yellowstone National Park in the year 1995. Once the wolves arrived, even though few in number, the same had remarkable effects. The obvious outcome of such reintroduction was the reduction in the population of deer; but even more significantly, the wolves changed the behaviour of the deer which started avoiding certain parts of the park, particularly the valleys and gorges. This resulted in regeneration of the flora of the national park and an increase in the height of trees which quintupled in mere six years. The valley sides quickly became forests of aspen and willow and cottonwood. Consequently, the birds started migrating to the Yellowstone National Park, sparking an increase in migratory and songbirds. The population of beavers increased and like the wolves, they too are ecosystem engineers who built natural dams in the rivers, creating habitat for otters, muskrats, ducks, fishes, reptiles and amphibians. The wolves hunted the coyotes as well, which resulted in the rise of rabbits and mice, enticing more hawks, weasels and foxes. The ravens and eagles came down to feed on the carrion 198 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports left by the wolves. The regeneration of shrubs also aided in the growth of bears, who mostly fed on berries and the carrion. The bears also reinforced the impact of the wolves by killing deer.