It is also important to mention that under certain circumstances mentioned in the notification, the importer can be asked to execute a bond as well. In those cases, action can be taken under the said bond when the conditions contained therein are violated. Therefore, if the Department wanted the Institute to pay the duty, which may have become payable, it could have taken independent action; de hors Section 124 of the Act, for payment of duty, simultaneously with the notice under Section 124 of the Act or by issuing composite notice for such an action. No doubt, it could have waited for option to be exercised by the Institute under Section 125(1) of the Act as well and in that eventuality, duty would have automatically become 1198 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports payable under Section 125(2) of the Act. But when such an option was not exercised, it could have taken separate and independent action by issuing a show-cause notice to the effect that the Institute had violated the terms of exemption notification and therefore, was liable to pay duty.” 8.8. We can thus conclude the second principle that, when confiscation proceedings are initiated under Section 124 of the Act, the obligation to pay duty and other charges under Section 125(2) will arise only when the owner of goods exercises the option to pay fine for redemption of goods and the Department accepting it. 8.9. An important principle that needs to be recognised is that, the customs duty obligation in confiscation proceedings does not occasion either under Section 12 or 28. It has arisen because of the option available and exercised under Section 125. This obligation should not be confused with the method and procedure by which that customs duty is assessed and determined, which is provided under Section 28. It is in this context that we need to consider and explain the decision of this court in Jagdish Cancer case. 9. Re: What is the true and correct ratio of the decision in Jagdish Cancer case? 9.1. The real contest in this case is about the correct ratio of the judgement in Jagdish Cancer case. According to the appellant, as this holds that duty liability in confiscation proceedings arises because of Section 125 and not Section 28, there is no liability to pay interest on delayed payments under Section 28AB. The facts of this case are necessary to be recounted for a clear understanding of the ratio of this decision. In this case, the department issued a show-cause notice under Section 124 of the Customs Act demanding customs duty and proposed confiscation under Section 111(o) and penalty under Section 112. 9.2. The importer contended that as there is no notice under Section 28, the demand and collection of duty are impermissible. We will extract the submission as recorded by this court in para 9 of the , as it is important to know what was argued and what was decided: [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1199 M/s Navayuga Engineering Co. Ltd. v. Union of India & Anr.