The precedents of this court unanimously note that courts should be circumspect in rejecting the opinion of these committees, unless they find their decision to be manifestly arbitrary or mala fide. On the other hand, courts/tribunals themselves set up expert committees on occasion. These committees are set up because the fact-finding exercise in 1916 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports many matters can be complex, technical and time- consuming, and may often require the committees to conduct field visits. These committees are set up with specific terms of reference outlining their mandate, and their reports have to conform to the mandate. Once these committees submit their final reports to the court/tribunal, it is open to the parties to object to them, which is then adjudicated upon. The role of these expert committees does not substitute the adjudicatory role of the court or tribunal. The role of an expert committee appointed by an adjudicatory forum is only to assist it in the exercise of adjudicatory functions by providing them better data and factual clarity, which is also open to challenge by all concerned parties. Allowing for objections to be raised and considered makes the process fair and participatory for all stakeholders.” (Emphasis supplied) 28.13. The above observations make it abundantly clear that this Court is not bound by the conclusions reached by its own expert committee. The report of the expert committee is important for the court to be apprised of the technical aspects of a particular dispute by independent experts. For a court or tribunal to rely entirely on the report of an expert committee would be improper as this would amount to the court abdicating its own adjudicatory function and replacing its wisdom with that of the expert committee. Parliamentary Standing Committee Reports 29. There are two reports of Parliamentary Standing Committees on this issue. The first one being, the 37th Report of the Committee on Agriculture (2011-2012) titled ‘Cultivation of Genetically Modified Food Crops - Prospects and Effects’ dated 09.08.2012. The Committee considered oral and documentary evidence, thereafter made the following observations: i. Bio-technology offers many advantages over traditional techniques of plant breeding in major food crops such as low production cost, conservation of bio-diversity and economic- [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1917 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. social benefits including poverty alleviation. This technology (transgenics/genetic engineering) is environmentally friendly, sustainable and affordable. ii. In respect of field trials which is a highly contested issue before us it is observed that they serve a multiplicity of purposes: “(i) For the plant breeder, they provide the first opportunity to evaluate the agronomic potential of novel-plant trait combinations in open environment which is not possible in contained conditions of greenhouse. (ii) It is necessary to measure the level of protein expression from any newly introduced genes in the plant tissues to assess its efficacy in the open environment and impact on the target and non target organisms consuming the genetically modified plant. (iii) It allows the production of sufficient quantities of plant material for use in livestock feeding studies/trials and to conduct compositional analyses, which are necessary for human food safety assessment.