Digital Supreme Court Reports 1. KECML has entered into a Coal Purchase Agreement with KPCL dated 9th May, 2007, whereby KECML shall require to supply coal from the above designated coal mines with the following parameters a) GCV (ARB) 4500 Kcal/Kg b) Permissible Max 4500 Kcal/Kg variation & Min 4000 Kcal/Kg c) Size 0-50 mm with fines (upto -2 mm) not exceeding 20% d) Total moisture 6% minimum, 15% maximum Suitable price adjustment (CIFD BTPS basis) would be earned out for variation in properties compared to the guaranteed values as follows xxxxx It has been agreed by the parties hereto that the above parameters shall be maintained by GCWL for onward supply of coal to BTPS of KPCL by KECML 2. KECML has agreed to provide minimum 2 mtpa (Min 8000 tonnes on daily average basis) raw coal to Majri washery of GCWL from their Raw Coal Dump Yard. It shall be GCWL’s responsibility to arrange/transport Raw Coal from the mines to MAJRI washery process the coal to achieve agreed specifications of the washed coal, transportation of washed coal to Majri railway siding to load minimum two rakes daily, supervise the loading of washed coal, onward delivery at BTPS power plant and co-ordination. xxxxx 4. GCWL has agreed to deliver washed coal of following specifications – [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1185 M/s Karnataka Emta Coal Mines Limited and Another v. Central Bureau of Investigation Ash (ABD) Less than 32 % GCV (ARB) 4500 Kcal/Kg Size 0-5 mm 5. Yield Parameters GCWL shall ensure, broadly, of 90% if the ash content of the raw coal is 35% to 36% and in the event ash content of the raw coal is found to be 40%, the yield shall be 80%. However, after analysis of the full seam of coal available from the mine the yield percentage will be settled on suitable terms. xxxxx 7. KECML shall pay Rs. 90/- Per MT (excluding all taxes as applicable) of raw coal towards washing charges including charges for loading washed coal to dumpers for transportation to railway siding. All taxes and duties are applicable shall be reimbursed by KECML at actual. The above charges will remain firm for 3 years …. 8. It will be the responsibility of GCWL to transport raw coal from mines to washery and washed coal from washery to KECML siding and supervise the loading onto railway wagons. The transportation rates shall be decided mutually by both the parties which shall be reimbursed by KECML at actual KECML shall place indents with railways and make rail freight payments etc, as per RR on actual xxxxx 12. That the rejects shall be the joint property of KECML and GCWL and it shall be disposed 1186 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports off/sold jointly at mutually agreed terms, subject to compliance of rules/ regulations/ guidelines of Ministry of Coal, Government of India, if applicable. xxxxx” 3.4.2 The appellants have stated that the draft MoU was sent to KPCL for its approval by Mr. Murlidhar Rao, the then Director (Technical) of KPCL and Director of KECML and after deliberations between 18th December, 2008 and 12th January, 2009, the same was finally approved and ratified by the Board of KECML on 13th January, 2009.