[2024] 2 S.C.R. 675 Ram Singh v. The State of U.P. 9.2. In the cross-examination, it further revealed that deceased Dulli used to live with the brother of PW-1 i.e. Desh Raj whose house was behind the house of PW-1. The other brother’s house was also nearby. On that fateful evening, though dinner had been taken, the deceased had not eaten food. As they were conversing in the courtyard, his mother was sitting quiet on the cot and did not participate. This time, he stated that he and his brother were sitting on the floor at the time of gunshot. Though he had bent down when the shot was fired, nobody got under the cot. On receiving the gunshot, the mother had collapsed on the cot. He had cried while sitting but had not hugged his mother. He had gone to his brother Sunder Lal’s hotel where the first information was written but his brother Sunder Lal did not accompany him to the police station. 9.3. He denied the suggestion that it was a false case because of personal enmity; that Desh Raj and others who were sitting on the cot with the deceased in Desh Raj’s house and that while examining a country made pistol, a bullet was fired accidentally. 10. PW-2 Man Singh stated that the deceased was sitting on a cot in the courtyard. Desh Raj and PW-1 were sitting on the floor near the cot. Accused Lala Ram had instigated accused Ram Singh by saying that PW-1 was being mischievous and that he should be killed. At this, accused Ram Singh walked 2-3 steps and fired from his country made pistol but instead of hitting PW-1, his mother was hit and she died. 10.1. In his cross-examination, PW-2 stated that the deceased was sitting on a cot while PW-1 and his brother Desh Raj were sitting on the floor on the west side of the cot. He saw the accused in the lantern light. Though Lala Ram had instigated Ram Singh, he did not get up from the cot and kept sitting. When shot was fired, Desh Raj and Radhey Lal (PW-1) stood up. He did not run to see the deceased after being shot. She was shot from a distance of 2-3 steps. 11. PW-3 Lala Ram, son of Prahalad Singh, stated that at the relevant time on the date of incident, he and Man Singh PW-2 were sitting on the same cot. Dulli was sitting on bed. Desh Raj and Radhey Lal were sitting on the floor at a distance of one and a half hems away. The two accused came from the northern side. Accused Lala 676 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Ram instigated accused Ram Singh to kill PW-1 saying that he was doing a lot of mischief. Ram Singh instantly fired from his country made pistol. The bullet did not hit Radhey Lal PW-1 but hit the left breast of his mother who was killed. 11.1. In his cross-examination, he stated that he had seen accused Ram Singh before accused Lala Ram started challenging PW- 1.