The doctrine is based on the principle that there ought to be inter- governmental tax immunities between the Centre and the States. In a Constitution such as ours which has a federal character, where both the Union and State Governments have the powers to levy taxes even on governmental property, the immunity is intended for the smooth working of the Governments and for saving time and efforts in cross taxation. Clause (1) of Article 285 deals with immunity of the property of the Union from State taxation. Article 285 embodies a narrower aspect of the doctrine of “Immunity of Instrumentalities” as propounded in the United States inasmuch as it exempts only property and not the functions or instrumentalities of the Union. 21.2 Article 285(1) states that the property of the Union shall be exempted from all taxes imposed by the State or by any authority within a State unless so provided for by the Parliament by law. Clause (2) of Article 285 states that nothing in clause (1) shall prevent any authority within a State from levying any tax on any property of the Union to which such property was immediately before the commencement of the Constitution liable or treated as liable, so long as that tax continues to be levied in that State. Clause (2) of Article 285 is a clause which is transitional in nature and is in the nature of a saving clause intended to save all taxes levied on the property of the Union prior to the commencement of the Constitution so long as the taxes continues to be levied in that State. However, this saving clause is subject to any law that the Parliament may provide otherwise. 21.3 While applying clause (1) of Article 285, two considerations must be taken into account: firstly, whether the tax is claimed in respect of property, and secondly, whether such property 922 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports is vested in the Union Government. The expression property must be given its widest meaning to include both tangible and intangible property as well as moveable and immovable property. The immunity conferred under clause (1) of the Article 285 is only in respect of a tax on property. The rationale for providing Articles 285 and 289 of the Constitution is based on the principle that one sovereign cannot tax another sovereign. Thus, under Article 285, all property of the Union is exempted from State taxes, while Article 289 exempts all incomes and property of a State from Union taxation; no distinction is made between the Union property used for commercial purposes or used for governmental functions. Thus, irrespective of use of the Union property is put to, there is an exemption. 21.4 The expression ‘vest’ is not found in Article 285, though, it occurred in Section 154 of the Government of India Act, 1935. However, this does not really make a difference, so long as the owner of the property is the Union. For instance, property which is requisitioned by the Union does not affect the ownership of the requisitioned property.