xii. Finally, on October 29, 1920, Maulana Mohammed Ali and his followers left the college to establish Jamia Milia Islamia, aimed 2012 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports at countering government influence at AMU. Consequently, the Ali Brothers established Jamia Milia Islamia as an independent institution not subject to government control, contrasting with AMU’s dependence on government support. 201. On the basis of the above, it was argued that the in Azeez Basha [supra] correctly recognises the historical context of AMU’s establishment and the influence of British recognition on its character. It was argued that the judgement in Azeez Basha [supra] does not simplicitor conclude that statutory establishment precludes minority status but examines the circumstances preceding AMU’s founding to determine its nature as a government-supported institution. 202. Keeping the above factors in mind, the Court must survey the important events and incidents that led to the formation of the AMU. In the conflict of narrative surrounding the century old history, the Court cannot be swayed by one side of the story or the other. In a complex historical context such as this, the Court must weigh carefully the role played by the minority as against that played by the government in establishment of the institution in to determine who is responsible for the positive fact of such establishment. 203. From a minute study of the aspects highlighted above, it is clear that in some case, there may exist certain factors which point towards efforts made by the minority community to claim to have a denominational University. Further, clearly the real intention of the minority community may indeed have been to have a denominational University for its own use. However, as stated above, intention and efforts are not the complete answer to the question of establishment. 204. If in a given case, there may be other factual factors pointing towards the contrary, highlighting that whatever the intention or the will of the minority community might have been at the said time, in exchange or during negotiations, if the resultant institution was effectively rendered an open governmental institution [with limited minority aspects], then Article 30 would be out of the picture. An institution with a limited minority aspects/elements cannot be a minority institution. The Court in such a situation, must balance the narratives on a weighing scale and test which forces were stronger during the process of establishment and the resultant institution. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2013 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. j. pre-Independence unIVersItIes and other InstItutIons 205. At this juncture, it would be appropriate to refer to the position of educational institutions, specifically Universities, prior to the advent of the Constitution and the UGC Act, 1956. During the said time, the British Indian Government, through legislations passed through provincial legislatures, passed various enactments establishing Universities in various zones/cities. The University of Calcutta, the University of Bombay, the University of Madras, the Panjab University and the University of Allahabad were established through legislations in the 19th century. 206. At the same time, throughout this period, it is noteworthy that a significant number of colleges and similar educational institutions were established across the country, including those established by minority communities.