v. ISSUE NO. 2: Whether the High Court was correct in granting 24% Compound Interest on the Principal Decretal Amount in favour of the original Plaintiff? 105. The High Court in its impugned considered, as a separate issue, whether the original plaintiff was entitled to claim 24% compound interest from the original defendants on the delayed payments. a. Concept of Interest 106. When interest is awarded by the Court, our normal feeling is that it is so awarded by way of penalty or punishment. But interest in all cases is not granted by way of penalty or punishment. In this regard, reference may be made to the decision of this Court in the case of Alok Shanker Pandey v. Union of India, reported in 2007 AIR (SC) 1198, wherein the concept of grant of interest has been explained in the following manner: “It may be mentioned that there is misconception about interest. Interest is not a penalty or punishment at all, but it is the normal accretion on capital. For example, if A had to pay B a certain amount, say ten years ago, but he offers that amount to him today, then he has pocketed the interest on the principal amount. Had A paid that amount to B ten years ago, B would have invested that amount somewhere and earned interest thereon, but instead of that A has kept that amount with himself and earned interest on it for this period. Hence equity demands that A should not only pay back the principal but also interest thereon to B.” 107. The above-noted decision of this Court makes it clear that interest on the delayed payment of the claim amount accrues due to the continuing wrong committed by the wilful withholding of the payment towards the claim, resulting in a continuous injury until such payment is made, or in other words, until the claim is realised. 382 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 108. The High Court relied upon the provisions of the 1993 Act to hold that as per Sections 4 and 5 respectively of the said legislation, the original plaintiff, which was a small-scale industrial undertaking, was entitled to claim compound interest @ 24% per annum from the original defendants. As a result, the High Court set aside the decree of the trial court which granted 12% simple interest in favour the original plaintiff. 109. The original defendants are aggrieved by the awarding of 24% interest in favour of the original plaintiff, which they contend has resulted in the principal decretal amount getting inflated exorbitantly. The original plaintiff, on the other hand, has argued that the impugned of the High Court insofar as it deals with the issue of interest cannot be said to suffer from any infirmity and was arrived at after due consideration of relevant material viz. the Handbook of Statistics of Indian Economy published by the Reserve Bank of India, etc. and after hearing the parties at length. 110. The original plaintiff has further submitted that the High Court considered the floor rate charged by the SBI for the financial year 1993-1994, which was 19%, as observed under the Table 74 on Structure of Interest Rates in the Handbook of Statistics of Indian Economy published by the Reserve Bank of India.