Such a definition is an explicit statement of the full connotation of a term.28 It is a clear signal that the legislature did not wish to maintain a distinction between the two classes of vehicles. Such an explicit and specific definition leaves no room for ambiguity. 33. On the importance of definition sections, G.P. Singh in Interpretation of Statutes29 has the following to say:- “In spite of severe criticism as to utility of definitions section or interpretation clauses, it is common to find in a statute “Definitions” of certain words and expressions used elsewhere in the body of the statute. The object of such a definition is to avoid the necessity of frequent repetitions in describing all the subject matter to which the word or expression so defined is intended to apply. For instance, the Supreme Court held that when the word “securities” has been defined under the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956, its meaning would not vary when the same word is used at more than one place in the same statute, as otherwise it will defeat the very object of the definitive section.” [emphasis supplied] 34. As noticed earlier, Section 2 also begins with the phrase ‘unless the context otherwise requires’. However, any contention based on a contrary context must avoid the risk of making the explicit definition, redundant or useless. Here we may usefully extract the following :- 28 Gough v. Gough [(1891) 2 QB 665 : 65 LT 110] referred in P. Kasilingam v. PSG College of Technology, AIR 1995 SC 1395; See also Punjab Land Development and Reclamation Corpn Ltd. v. Presiding Officer, Labour Court (1990) 3 SCC 682 29 Justice G.P. Singh: Principles of Statutory Interpretation (LexisNexis,2016) [2024] 11 S.C.R. 581 M/s Bajaj Alliance General Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Rambha Devi & Ors. “..However, it is incumbent on those who contend that the definition given in the interpretation clause does not apply to a particular section to show that the context in fact so requires. An argument based on contrary context which will make the inclusive definition inapplicable to any provision in the Act cannot be accepted as it would make the definition entirely useless. Repugnancy of a definition arises only when the definition does not agree with the subject or context; any action not in conformity with the definition will not obviously make it repugnant to subject or context of the provision containing the term defined under which such action is purported to have been taken. When the application of the definition to a term in a provision containing that term makes it unworkable and otiose, it can be said that the definition is not applicable to that provision because of contrary context.”30 [emphasis supplied] 35. Considering the emphatic nature of the definition given in Section 2(21) which would suggest a strict interpretation, it would be logical to conclude that a light motor vehicle would mean a transport vehicle, omnibus, road roller, tractor, or motor car, provided the weight does not exceed 7,500 kgs.