The time limit prescribed by the aforesaid provisions of law would, however, commence from the date of rendering the opinion by the Tribunal. xxx xxx xxx 111. 1956 Rules as well as 2009 Rules, as noticed above, provide the initial time limit for filing application [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1205 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 for registration, i.e., one month, which is extendable by another 60 days by the registering authority. Though there is no time limit prescribed in section 6A of the 1955 Act for filing such application, having regard to the purpose for which section 6A of the 1955 Act has been enacted, it also cannot be said that the fixation of time limit for filing the application has no bearing on the purpose sought to be achieved by such enactment. However, such time limit can be extended by the registering authority, only under very exceptional circumstances preventing the applicant from filing the application due to reasons beyond his control, for which the reasons have to be recorded by the registering authority. But such extension of time cannot also be for an indefinite period of time, having regard to the object of the enactment of section 6A of the 1955 Act. A person who does not register within the time limit fixed or within the time limit that may be extended by the registering authority, is liable to be deported from India as he is admittedly a foreigner and he has not acquired the right of a citizen of India as has been acquired by a person of Indian origin who came to Assam from the specified territory prior to 1.1.1966, by virtue of the deeming provision in sub-section (2) of section 6A of the 1955 Act. The decision of the Apex Court in National Human Rights Commission (supra) on which Mr. Das, learned senior counsel has placed reliance, does not support the contention that a person of Indian origin who came to Assam from specified territory between 1.1.1966 to 25.6.1971 would continue to be the citizen of India despite non-filing of application for registration. In the said case, the Apex Court had interfered with the quit notices and ultimatum issued by a Student organization, on the ground that they do not have the authority to issue the same and it tantamounts to threat to the life and liberty of each and every person of Chakma tribe. The Apex Court had also directed not to evict or remove the Chakmas from their occupation on the ground that he is not a citizen of India until the competent authority takes a decision on the application filed by them for registration under the provisions of the 1955 Act.” (Emphasis supplied) 1206 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 152. Another absurdity which is manifest in the scheme of Section 6A is that once an immigrant belonging to the 1966-71 stream is detected as a foreigner, that person has to mandatorily register within a fixed time period, otherwise the person concerned would be liable to deportation.