What we can infer on the basis of the materials produced before us, are mere third-party allegations that money has been directed to be 2 16. Punishment for terrorist act.— (1) Whoever commits a terrorist act shall,— (a) if such act has resulted in the death of any person, be punishable with death or imprisonment for life, and shall also be liable to fine; (b) in any other case, be punishable with imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than five years but which may extend to imprisonment for life, and shall also be liable to fine. 3 17. Punishment for raising funds for terrorist act.—Whoever, in India or in a foreign country, directly or indirectly, raises or provides funds or collects funds, whether from a legitimate or illegitimate source, from any person or persons or attempts to provide to, or raises or collects funds for any person or persons, knowing that such funds are likely to be used, in full or in part by such person or persons or by a terrorist organisation or by a terrorist gang or by an individual terrorist to commit a terrorist act, notwithstanding whether such funds were actually used or not for commission of such act, shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than five years but which may extend to imprisonment for life, and shall also be liable to fine. Explanation.—For the purpose of this section,— (a) participating, organising or directing in any of the acts stated therein shall constitute an offence; (b) raising funds shall include raising or collecting or providing funds through production or smuggling or circulation of high quality counterfeit Indian currency; and (c) raising or collecting or providing funds, in any manner for the benefit of, or, to an individual terrorist, terrorist gang or terrorist organisation for the purpose not specifically covered under Section 15 shall also be construed as an offence. [2024] 4 S.C.R. 299 Shoma Kanti Sen v. The State of Maharashtra & Anr. sent to her. None of the materials reveal receipt of any funds by her or her direct role in raising or collecting funds. We are conscious of the fact that in course of trial, the prosecution will have the opportunity to bring more detailed evidence in that regard, but here we are only examining whether the offences under Part IV & VI of the 1967 Act, alleged to have been committed by the appellant, are prima facie true or not. 32. As regards the allegation against the appellant for committing an offence under Section 184 of the 1967 Act are concerned, which includes conspiracy or attempt on her part to commit, advocate, abet, advice, incite or facilitate commission or any terrorist act, the materials collected so far, even if we believe them to be true at this stage, applying the principles enunciated by this Court in the case of Zahoor Ahmad Shah Watali (supra), only reveal her participation in some meetings and her attempt to encourage women to join the struggle for new democratic revolution.