The “Minutes of the ” refers to the officers’ affidavits. Sub-clause (iii) of clause 6, which we have quoted above, records that the writ petitioners shall ensure that sufficient access is provided for the other owners of the land whose property falls within the confines of the boundary wall in such a manner that their lands do not become landlocked. Even assuming that advocate 168 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Sambhaji Kharatmol was authorized by nine interveners to sign, the fact remains that several other owners or occupants of the lands likely to be affected by the compound wall were not impleaded as parties to the petition. Without even adverting to the factual aspects brought on record by two responsible Government officers in their affidavit dated 14th March 2022, the Division Bench mechanically passed an in terms of the “Minutes of the ” and disposed of the Writ Petition. Now we have a scenario where, under police protection, survey work and construction of the compound wall have been carried out by 1st and 2nd respondents. An illegality has been allowed to be perpetrated under the protection of the police. As noted earlier, even the Government counsel did not perform his duty by submitting before the Court as an officer of the Court about the failure to implead the necessary parties. PRACTICE OF PASSING S IN TERMS OF “MINUTES OF ” FILED BY THE ADVOCATES 16. Now, we deal with the concept of “Minutes of ”, which is peculiar only to the Bombay High Court. This Court, in the case of Speed Ways Picture Pvt. Ltd. and Anr. v. Union of India and Anr.1 had an occasion to consider the practice of passing s in terms of “Minutes of ”. Paragraphs 5 and 6 of the said decision reads thus: “5. The basis upon which the review petition was decided is, in our view, not correct. Counsel for the appellants and the respondents put it in writing that a of this Court and a Full Bench of the High Court covered the matter. The writ petition in that High Court could, therefore, not succeed. This could have been orally stated and recorded by the Court. As a courtesy to the Court, the practice of long standing is to put statements such as these in writing in the form of “minutes of ” which are tendered and on the basis of which the Court passes the : “ in terms of minutes”. The signatures of counsel upon “minutes of ” are intended for identification so as to make the binding upon the parties’ counsel represented. An in terms of minutes is an 1 [1996] Supp. 7 SCR 636 : (1996) 6 SCC 705 [2024] 5 S.C.R. 169 Ajay Ishwar Ghute & Ors. v. Meher K. Patel & Ors. in invitum, not a consent . It is appealable and may be reviewed. 6. It would be a different matter if the of the court was passed on “Consent Terms”, i.e., on a statement above the signatures of counsel which expressly stated it was “by consent”.