John Rawls defined the principle of natural justice in the following words36: “Finally, there are those precepts defining the notion of natural justice. These are guidelines intended to preserve the integrity of the judicial process. If laws are directives addressed to rational persons for their guidance, courts must be concerned to apply and to enforce these rules in an appropriate way. A conscientious effort must be made to determine whether an infraction has taken place and to impose the correct penalty. Thus, a legal system must make provisions for conducting ly trials and hearings; it must contain rules of evidence that guarantee rational procedures of inquiry. While there are variations in these procedures, the rule of law requires some form of due process: that is, a process reasonably designed to ascertain the truth, in ways consistent with the other ends of the legal system, as to whether a violation has taken place and under what circumstances. For example, judges must be independent and impartial, and no man may judge his own case. Trials must be fair and open, but 35 H.L.A. Hart, The Concept of Law (Oxford University Press, New York, 2nd Edn., 1994), p. 206 36 John Rawls, A Theory of Justice (Revised Edition) (The Belknap Press of Harvard University Press, Cambridge, 1999). [2024] 11 S.C.R. 773 In Re: Directions in The Matter of Demolition of Structures not prejudiced by public clamor. The precepts of natural justice are to insure that the legal will be impartially and regularly maintained.” 37 66. It is thus required that the trial must be fair and open, but not prejudiced by public clamor. The precepts of natural justice are to ensure that the legal will be impartially and regularly maintained. An accused cannot be declared guilty, unless proven so beyond reasonable doubt before a court of law. They cannot be declared guilty, unless there is a fair trial. 67. In this regard, it will be apposite to refer to the decision of this Court in the case of Himanshu Singh Sabharwal v. State of Madhya Pradesh and others,38 where it was held: “Failure to accord fair hearing either to the accused or the prosecution violates even minimum standards of due process of law. It is inherent in the concept of due process of law, that condemnation should be rendered only after the trial in which the hearing is a real one, not sham or a mere farce and pretence. Since the fair hearing requires an opportunity to preserve the process, it may be vitiated and violated by an overhasty stage-managed, tailored and partisan trial… The fair trial for a criminal offence consists not only in technical observance of the frame and forms of law, but also in recognition and just application of its principles in substance, to find out the truth and prevent miscarriage of justice.” 68. It has been held by this Court in the case of State of Maharashtra v. Champalal Punjaji Shah,39 that the right to a fair and speedy trial is enshrined under the right to life guaranteed under the Constitution.