In the meeting area sales manager M. Nipun Aneja, ZILV, Manish Sharma, M.H. Khan and Vijay Dev came in the meeting. In the meeting the meeting was called of the person not taking the VRS and of sales man. In the meeting 1. R.R. Kapoor, 2. Keshav Tiwari 3. R.N. Prasad, 4. R.N. Shukl, 5. Sudhir Ojha, 5. B.N. Gupta 9. Hari Shyam Mishra 2. Rajiv Jain and I was in the staff meeting. In the meeting all the sales men were called by number who have not taken the VRS and while stating the bad about them M. Nipun Aneja, Manish Sharma and ZILV were given one transfer letter for the post of merchandising which was post lower from salesman and those employees who were not accepting the transfer letter, their life will be ruined and will be dispelled from service. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1491 Nipun Aneja and Others v. State of Uttar Pradesh Vijay Dev Nani and M.A. Khan who were present in the meeting did not said bad to anyone and nor provide mental harassment. They were only present. Scheme of VRS was launched by Kalol Chakravarty and Rupendra Yadav who came one year back for the purpose of launching the same who harassed us a lot, that the one who will not take the VRS will be dispelled. M. Banki Venkatesh from whose signature transfer was done in merchandising from salesman. They harassed us mentally earlier for the purpose of taking of VRS. On not taking the VRS on forcefully harassing mentally on doing their signature done our transfer in merchandising from sales man. The letter was given by M. Nipun Aneja, Manish Sharma and ZILV. On calling Rajiv Jain in last in meeting gave the transfer letter of merchandising from salesman and stated bad because of which on being aggrieved Rajiv Jain started crying in meeting all only. We were very tensed. After ending of the meeting all the persons came to Amber Hotel, but in his room ...... Sudhir Ojha on going at the place of his sister Sudha came alone in rickshaw and on going in his room directly strangulated himself on putting the loop with fan and committed suicide on closing the door. We while leaving the hotel knocked the door then the room was closed from inside then though he might be getting fresh alone therefore we returned back to Allahabad. On way near Raibarelly received the information on phone then returned back to hotel then on sending inside from window the son of Subhash Chandra Verma the room was got opened, there dead body was hanging with fan and they died. And after panchayatnama the dead body was sent for the purpose of proceedings for the purpose of postmortem. Despite of information to the officers of department no one came to Hotel Amber. Officers of our department harassed Rajiv Jain and us that at last Rajiv Jain committed suicide. This is my statement which is recorded in the court.” 7.