List of Acts Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 List of Keywords Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996: Interpretation of arbitration clause; Pragmatic construction; Existence of arbitration clause; Mutual consent; Appointment of arbitrator; Appointment of arbitral tribunal. Case Arising From CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 14005 of 2024 From the and dated 31.05.2024 of the High Court of Madhya Pradesh at Indore in ARBC No. 19 of 2024 [2024] 12 S.C.R. 989 Tarun Dhameja v. Sunil Dhameja & Anr. Appearances for Parties Ravindra Singh Chhabra, Sr. Adv., Mudit Maheshwari, Aman Arora, Ms. Praneesha Nayyar, Sahil Monga, Advs. for the Appellant. Puneet Jain, Sr. Adv., Soumitra Chatterjee, Mrs. Sriparna Chatterjee, Anant Kumar Vatsya, Ms. Christi Jain, Advs. for the Respondents. / of the Supreme Court Leave granted. In the present case, the arbitration clause in the Deed of Partnership dated 16.07.2016 reads as under:- “23. Arbitration That if at any time either during the continuance of the partnership or after the retirement of any partner, any dispute or difference shall arise between the partners or their respective heirs or any one claiming through or under them, the same shall be referred to arbitration. Arbitration shall be optional & the arbitrator will be appointed by partners with their mutual consent. In any case of dispute arise then the Jurisdiction of Indore Civil Court shall be applicable & acceptable by the partners.” In our opinion, it cannot be said that the arbitration clause is optional in the sense that the arbitration clause is non-existent or that the matter would be referred to arbitration only if all the parties to the dispute agree to refer the dispute to arbitration. In Vidya Drolia v. Durga Trading Corpn.,1 this Court delineated the issue of interpretation and construction of an arbitration clause and referred to the following observations in Fili Shipping Co. Ltd. v. Premium Nafta Products Ltd.2: “6. In approaching the question of construction, it is therefore necessary to inquire into the purpose of the 1 [2020] 11 SCR 1001 : (2021) 2 SCC 1 2 2007 UKHL 40 990 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports arbitration clause. As to this, I think there can be no doubt. The parties have entered into a relationship, an agreement or what is alleged to be an agreement or what appears on its face to be an agreement, which may give rise to disputes. They want those disputes decided by a tribunal which they have chosen, commonly on the grounds of such matters as its neutrality, expertise and privacy, the availability of legal services at the seat of the arbitration and the unobtrusive efficiency of its supervisory law. Particularly in the case of international contracts, they want a quick and efficient adjudication and do not want to take the risks of delay and, in too many cases, partiality, in proceedings before a national jurisdiction.” Vidya Drolia (supra) further referred to the in Oriental Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Narbheram Power & Steel (P) Ltd.3 to hold: “150. In Narbheram Power & Steel (P) Ltd. [Oriental Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Narbheram Power & Steel (P) Ltd. (2018) 6 SCC 534], this Court while dealing with the arbitration clause in the insurance agreement, has held that the arbitration clause should be strictly construed, relying on the principles of strict interpretation that apply to insurance contracts.