This exercise will naturally require meetings with the victim on multiple occasions. In what manner this task should be performed is left to the committee to decide; (f) The committee members must perform their duties very carefully and sensitively while ensuring that the victim does not develop a feeling of insecurity. While doing the exercise, the committee will endeavour to carefully ascertain the kind of support, if any, the victim and her child are getting from the accused and his family members; (g) The State Government and its officials shall render all possible facilities and help to the committee members; (h) The coordinator of the committee shall submit a report in a sealed cover to this Court by 18th October 2024 through the Advocate-on-Record for the State Government. The report can be a preliminary report or a final report. The report should contain the details of the interactions with the victim and the 614 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports opinion and recommendations of the committee. The committee is free to give its opinion on the action which would be in the best interest of the victim and her child; and (i) We direct the Registry to forward copies of this to the Secretaries of Law and/or Justice Departments of all the States and Union Territories. The Secretaries shall convene meetings of the Secretaries of the concerned departments and other senior officials. The object of holding such meetings is to ensure that appropriate directions are issued to all concerned to strictly implement the provisions of Section 19(6) of the POCSO Act and the relevant provisions of the JJ Act, which we have elaborated above. The State/Union Territories must create machinery to do so. The State/Union Territories shall also assist the victims in getting the benefits under the scheme of the Government of India and the scheme of NALSA, which we have referred to above. In the meetings, the issue of framing Rules by the States to give effect to the provisions of Section 46 of the JJ Act, shall also be considered. The Secretaries shall forward the compliance reports to the Secretary of the Ministry of Women and Child Development, Government of India, within a period of two months from today. The Secretary of the Ministry of Women and Child Development shall compile the reports and submit an exhaustive report before this Court within three months from today. A copy of this shall also be forwarded to the Secretary to the Ministry of Women and Child Development, Government of India. 45. To consider the report submitted by the expert committee and for considering the sentencing, list this petition/appeal on 21st October 2024 at 03:00 p.m. before this Bench. Result of the case: Matter listed to consider report submitted by expert committee and for sentencing. †Headnotes prepared by: Ankit Gyan