6. The investigation by the DoE resulted in filing of the first prosecution complaint on 26.11.2022. The Special Court took cognisance on 20.12.2022. Thereafter, DoE has filed four supplementary prosecution complaints. CBI has filed a chargesheet, followed by two supplementary chargesheets. However, charges have not been framed. 7. At this stage, it is not possible for us to either conclude the arguments or finally pronounce the . However, there is an intervening factor which has prompted us to consider and pass the present , namely, 18th Lok Sabha General Elections, which are in progress. As the appeal is pending before us, we do not think it would be proper for us to direct the appellant – Arvind Kejriwal to approach the trial court for interim bail/release. This may not be apt in view of the legal issues and contentions that are under examination and consideration before us. 8. It is no gain saying that General Elections to Lok Sabha is the most significant and an important event this year, as it should be in a national election year. Between 650-700 million voters out of an electorate of about 970 million will cast their votes to elect the government of this country for the next five years. General Elections supply the vis viva to a democracy.3 Given the prodigious importance, we reject the argument raised on behalf of the prosecution that grant of interim bail/release on this account would be giving premium of placing the 2 For short, ‘CBI’. 3 See Mohinder Singh Gill and Another v. Chief Election Commissioner, New Delhi and Others (1978) 1 SCC 405 350 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports politicians in a benefic position compared to ordinary citizens of this country. While examining the question of grant of interim bail/release, the courts always take into consideration the peculiarities associated with the person in question and the surrounding circumstances. In fact, to ignore the same would be iniquitous and wrong. 9. We will now refer to some case law on the power to grant interim bail/ release, which power is exercised routinely even by the trial courts. 10. In Mukesh Kishanpuria v. State of West Bengal4, this Court has held that the power to grant regular bail includes the power to grant interim bail, particularly in view of Article 21 of the Constitution of India. 11. Sunil Fulchand Shah v. Union of India and Others5 observes that parole by way of temporary release can be granted by Government or its functionaries in case of detenus under the Conservation of Foreign Exchange and Prevention of Smuggling Activities Act, 1974. Further, the High Courts and this Court can direct temporary release of a detenu for specified reasons when the request is unjustifiably rejected by the authorities. However, the power of temporary release of a detenu suffering preventive detention is exercised only in extreme and deserving cases. 12. In Dadu @ Tulsidas v. State of Maharashtra6, notwithstanding Section 32A of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 19857, which prohibits the appellate court from suspending sentence awarded to the convict, this restriction, it is observed, does not affect the power and authority of the court to grant parole or furlough, even where a person has been convicted and sentenced and his appeal has been dismissed.