In the facts of the case, a contingent event has never happened, and therefore, financial debt has not been crystallised. 33. He submitted that MSTA did not require a guarantee to be executed in favour of the Security Trustee. In fact, the recitals in the MSTA clearly indicate that the requirement on Obligors was to hypothecate property as security for due repayment of the secured facilities availed by each Obligor. It was submitted that the appellants are contract lenders of the three RCom entities and not the Corporate Debtor since the Corporate Debtor has not availed any loans or facilities from the appellants. 34. The learned senior counsel submitted that the Corporate Debtor in its financial statement before and after commencement of the CIRP had not treated the MSTA and the DoH as a guarantee. It is submitted that the Corporate Debtor had not provided any guarantee 13 2020 INSC 227 : (2020) 8 SCC 401 [2024] 12 S.C.R. 2057 China Development Bank v. Doha Bank Q.P.S.C. & Ors. under the MSTA or the DoH. The learned senior counsel submitted that a perusal of Form-C filled in by the appellants shows that no guarantee was provided to the appellants/third party lenders. This position was further clarified in the minutes of the CoC meeting dated 2nd August 2019. Even the RP accepted that there was no deed of guarantee. The learned senior counsel submitted that the IBC cannot be used for recovery as it is a mechanism to rehabilitate and revive the Corporate Debtor. He urged that the appellants are attempting to use the CIRP as a mode of recovery of their loans from the RCom entities. He submitted that if the DoH is treated as a guarantee, all such hypothecation deeds creating security interest will have to be construed as a guarantee in to qualify as financial debt. 35. He submitted that the Resolution Plan has been passed in compliance with Sections 13(2) and 13(4) of the IBC and once a Resolution Plan is approved, it cannot be challenged before the forum. 36. The appellants voted and approved the Resolution Plan which extinguished their security while their status as Financial Creditors was under challenge in the pending application filed by the 1st Respondent-Doha Bank. Now, the appellants cannot be permitted to turn back and rewrite the Resolution Plan. The learned senior counsel urged that allowing any member of the CoC to agree to the Resolution Plan by unilaterally reserving its right to seek amendment, would run contrary to fundamental principles of the IBC and set a dangerous precedent. 37. The learned senior counsel submitted that even if the CoC accepts the appellants as Financial Creditors, the same would have no consequence on the CIRP of the Corporate Debtor or the Resolution Plan since the plan has been duly approved by 100 per cent majority of the CoC in conformity with Section 30(2) of the IBC. The learned senior counsel submitted that once the Resolution Plan has been approved by this Court, the appellants cannot be allowed to challenge the same.