(xiv) As regards the Income Disclosure Scheme (IDS) declaration made by Vaibhav Jain and Ankush Jain for about Rs.16 crores for the period 2010-2016, it has been submitted that the said IDS declarations were rejected by the PCIT vide the dated 09.06.2017, on the ground of misrepresentation/suppression of facts. The said of PCIT was challenged by Vaibhav Jain and Ankush Jain before the Delhi High Court, however the High Court had also rejected that petition vide the dated 01.08.2019. Neither the PCIT nor the High Court had given any finding that the said amount of Rs. 16 crores belonged to the appellant. 1 [2022] 6 SCR 382 : 2022 SCC OnLine SC 929 788 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (xv) The reliance placed by the ED on the appellant’s letter dated 27.06.2018 was misleading and incorrect, in as much as the appellant vide the said letter had explicitly denied the appellant being the beneficial owner. Since Vaibhav Jain and Ankush Jain had already deposited the tax on the said income, the appellant in the said letter had only requested the authorities to adjust the said tax and not to make a demand again for the same amount from the appellant, however from the said letter it could not be assumed that the appellant had accepted the additions made in the assessment . (xvi) As held in Vijay Madanlal Choudhary (supra), the courts ought not to conduct mini trial and should consider only the broad probability of the matter. The appellant is not a flight risk, there is no risk of tampering of documents or witnesses. The jail violation as alleged by the ED has not been accepted by the concerned Jail visiting Judge and the Jail authorities. The appellant being sick and infirm, having undergone a spine surgery, is entitled to bail as per the proviso to Section 45 of PMLA. 8. The learned ASG Mr. SV Raju made the following submissions in the appeal preferred by the appellant Shri Satyendar Kumar Jain: (i) It was revealed during the course of investigation that the appellant Satyendar Kumar Jain while posted and functioning as the Minister in the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi, during the period from 2015 to 2017 had acquired assets in the form of movable and immovable properties in his name and in the name of his family members, which were disproportionate to his known source of income. (ii) During the check period, the accommodation entries against cash of about 4.81 crores was received in the companies – M/s Akinchan Developers Pvt. Ltd., M/s Paryas Infosolutions Pvt. Ltd., M/s. Manglayatan Projects Pvt. Ltd., and M/s JJ Ideal Estate Pvt. Ltd., beneficially owned/ controlled by the appellant from Kolkata based entry operators through Shell Companies. (iii) From the statements of Rajendra Bansal, Jivendra Mishra, both residents of Kolkata, and from Shri J.P. Mohta, the Chartered Accountant, it was revealed that Shri Rajendra Bansal had arranged accommodation entries in the companies of the [2024] 3 S.C.R.