It is evident and obvious that the personal status of the applicant and her family would be again in knowledge of the accused but still accused James Kunjwal is chasing applicant opting various ways, asking and pressurizing her to settle down the case by stating that he loves applicant, giving her love proposal, asking her to meet, to call etc and also sending 5 [2005] 2 SCR 708 : (2005) 4 SCC 370 [2024] 8 S.C.R. 337 James Kunjwal v. State of Uttarakhand & Anr. obscene text, and status to applicant and on denial by the applicant and asking him to put his words before the respected hon’ble court and trial court started abusing her and her family badly also talking obscene to her. For the kind perusal of this Hon’ble court a true photo copy of the WhatsApp messages and status text and instagram messages are being filed herewith and marked as Annexure No.7 to this bail cancellation application. 10. That being aggrieved by the aforesaid objectionable activities of the accused the applicant/complainant made a complaint before the police station - kathgodam on 24- 7-2022. For the kind perusal of this Hon’ble court a true photo copy of the complaint letter along with its type copy is being filed herewith and marked as Annexure No.8 to this bail cancellation application. 11. That pursuant to this complaint the accused was called at police station and before police station he made a statement that he made a statement he will not repeat the any action in any manner but after returning from the police station when he reach his home the accused again started abusing her badly and also passing obscene comments to applicant through Whatsapp text status. For the kind perusal of this Hon’ble court a true photo copy of the whatsapp text status is being filed herewith and marked as Annexure No.9 to this bail cancellation application. 12. That despite the promise made before the police station the accused did not stop the sending 10 abusing watsapp status messages therefore she again informed to the concerned police station kathgodam, on the perusal of which they called accused again where he accepted that he is doing this intentionally therefore police gave warning to him not to repeat the same again and again and police told the applicant that thought they can lodge the F.I.R. against the accused but the applicant cannot proof just on the basis of the various messages through social media platforms (WhatsApp and Instagram).” 8. In response thereto, the appellant in his affidavit had averred as under : 338 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “9. That the contents of the para no 9 are denied. 10. That the contents of the Para no 10 are matter of record and hence need no comments. 11. That the contents of the para no 10, 11 & 12 are denied. That the no such incident took place in the Police station and there is no material evidence to prove this.