As a presumably innocent person he is therefore entitled to freedom and every opportunity look after his own case. A presumably innocent person must have his freedom to enable him to establish his innocence.” 31. In Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia (supra), this Court emphasized that the applicant must have a tangible reason to believe. Vague apprehension will not do. Secondly, it held that the High Court or the Court of Session should not ask an applicant to go before the Magistrate to try his luck under Section 437 of the CrPC. It was also observed that once the accused is arrested, Section 438 of the CrPC ceases to play any role with reference to the offence or [2024] 9 S.C.R. 291 Dhanraj Aswani v. Amar S. Mulchandani & Anr. offences for which he is arrested. This Court also cautioned against passing a blanket for anticipatory bail. 32. The following principles of law as regards the grant of anticipatory bail can be discerned from Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia (supra): i. The applicant must genuinely show the “reason to believe” that he may be arrested for a non-bailable offence. Mere fear is not belief and the grounds on which the belief of the applicant is based must be capable of being examined by the Court objectively. Specific events and facts must be disclosed to enable the Court to judge the reasonableness of belief or likelihood of arrest, the existence of which is the sine qua non in the exercise of the power to grant anticipatory bail. ii. The High Court or the Court of Session must apply its mind to the question of anticipatory bail and should not leave it to the discretion of the Magistrate under Section 437 CrPC. iii. Filing of the FIR is not a condition precedent. However, imminence of a likely arrest founded on the reasonable belief must be shown. iv. Anticipatory bail can be granted so long as the applicant is not arrested in connection with that case/offence. v. Section 438 of the CrPC cannot be invoked by the accused in respect of the offence(s)/case in which he has been arrested. The remedy lies under Section 437 or 439 of the CrPC, as the case may be, for the offence for which he is arrested. vi. The normal rule is to not limit the operation of the in relation to a period of time. 33. On account of various decisions of benches of lesser strength than in Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia (supra) taking a view curtailing the scope of the findings in the said case, the scope of Section 438 of the CrPC came to be considered yet again in Siddharam Satlingappa Mhetre (supra). A two-Judge Bench in Siddharam Satlingappa Mhetre (supra) held that the intervening decisions between 1980 and 2011 curtailing the scope of Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia (supra) were per incuriam. 34. However, since Siddharam Satlingappa Mhetre (supra) was delivered by a coram of two Judges, the matter again reached the 292 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Constitution Bench in the rendered in the case of Sushila Aggarwal (supra) laying down the following principles: i.