218 Election Commission of India, Letter dated 26 May 2017, No. 56/PPEMS/Transparency/2017 554 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 208. After the amendment, companies similar to individuals, can make unlimited contributions and contributions can be made by both profit- making and loss-making companies to political parties. Thus, in essence, it could be argued that the amendment is merely removing classification for the purpose of political contribution between companies and individuals on the one hand and loss-making and profit-making companies on the other. 209. The proposition on the principle of manifest arbitrariness culled out above needs to be recalled. The doctrine of manifest arbitrariness can be used to strike down a provision where: (a) the legislature fails to make a classification by recognizing the degrees of harm; and (b) the purpose is not in consonance with constitutional values. 210. One of the reasons for which companies may contribute to political parties could be to secure income tax benefit.2"° However, companies have been contributing to political parties much before the Indian legal regime in 2003 exempted contributions to political parties. Contributions are made for reasons other than saving on the Income Tax. The chief reason for corporate funding of political parties is to influence the political process which may in turn improve the company’s business performance.”° A company, whatever may be its form or character, is principally incorporated to carry out the objects contained in the memorandum. However, the amendment now allows a company, through its Board of Directors, to contribute unlimited amounts to political parties without any accountability and scrutiny. Unlimited contribution by companies to political parties is antithetical to free and fair elections because it allows certain persons/companies to wield their clout and resources to influence policy making. The purpose of Section 182 is to curb corruption in electoral financing. For instance, the purpose of banning a Government company from contributing is to prevent such companies from entering into the political fray by making contributions to political parties. The amendment to Section 182 by permitting unlimited corporate contributions (including by shell companies) authorizes unrestrained influence of companies on the electoral process. This is violative of the principle of free and 219 IT Act, Section 80 GGB 220 Jayantilal Ranchhoddas Koticha ५. Tata Iron & Steel Co. Ltd (supra) [2024] 2 S.C.R. 555 Association for Democratic Reforms & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. fair elections and political equality captured in the value of “one person one vote”. 211. The amendment to Section 182 of the Companies Act must be read along with other provisions on financial contributions to political parties under the RPA and the IT Act. Neither the RPA nor the IT Act place a cap on the contributions which can be made by an individual. The amendment to the Companies Act when viewed along with other provisions on electoral funding, seek to equalize an individual and a company for the purposes of electoral funding. 212. The ability of a company to influence the electoral process through political contributions is much higher when compared to that of an individual.