on 28.11.2016. We have no hesitation to hold that in the totality of the circumstances, revealed from the indisputable factual position there was absolutely no justification for the High Court to confine its consideration only on the question of correctness of the finding on territorial jurisdiction and at the same time, to hold all the other issues against the claimant(s) and in favour of the opposite parties. 27. In the above context, it is to be noted that for the purpose of deciding the issue of territorial jurisdiction, the Tribunal permitted the parties to adduce evidence before it. The position obtained in the case would reveal that the Tribunal had actually proceeded with the claim petition despite holding the view that it got no territorial jurisdiction. In such indisputable position, it is only apposite to refer to XIV, Rule 2 of CPC which mandates a Court to pronounce a on all the issues. The said provision reads thus:- [2024] 2 S.C.R. 1219 Balveer Batra v. The New India Assurance Company & Anr. “2. Court to pronounce on all issues.—(1) Notwithstanding that a case may be disposed of on a preliminary issue, the Court shall, subject to the provisions of sub-rule (2), pronounce on all issues. (2) Where issues both of law and of fact arise in the same suit, and the Court is of opinion that the case or any part thereof may be disposed of on an issue of law only, it may try that issue first if the issue relates to— (a) the jurisdiction of the Court, or (b) a bar to the suit created by any law for the time being in force, and for that purpose may, if it thinks fit, postpone the settlement of the other issues until after that issue has been determined, and may deal with the suit in accordance with the decision on that issue.” 28. True that in terms of the said provision, the issues regarding territorial jurisdiction ought to be tried as primary issues but when it is evident that the issue could not be decided solely based on the pleadings in the plaint (here claim petition) and when parties are permitted to adduce evidence upon finding that it is a mixed question of law and facts there was absolutely no justification for not pronouncing an award on all the issues framed besides the one pertaining to its territorial jurisdiction. There cannot be any doubt with respect to the fact that when evidence was permitted to be let in, may be for such issues the possibility of re-appreciation and consequent reversal of finding(s) of the Tribunal cannot be ruled out. But then, if the award was pronounced not at threshold, but after a very long lapse of time and confining consideration only on the issue of territorial jurisdiction and then, answering the other issues as well against the claimant without examining them on their own merits, but solely because of the negative finding on the issue of territorial jurisdiction, as occurred in the case on hand, it would defeat the very purpose of the benevolent legislation providing for grant of compensation under Section 166 of the M.V.