All those expressions used in Section 14 and Rule 4 confer discretionary powers on the Commissioner as well as the State Government, not a discretionary power coupled with duty.” (emphasis in original) 22. Section 88 of the CrPC does not confer any right on any person, who is present in a court. Discretionary power given to the court is for the purpose and object of ensuring appearance of such person in that court or to any other court into which the case may be transferred for trial. Discretion given under Section 88 to the court does not confer any right on a person, who is present in the court rather it is the power given to the court to facilitate his appearance, which clearly indicates that use of the word “may” is discretionary and it is for the court to exercise its discretion when situation so demands. It is further relevant to note that the word used in Section 88 “any person” has to be given wide meaning, which may include persons, who are not even accused in a case and appeared as witnesses.” (emphasis added) This Court, in the aforesaid decision, dealt with a case where Section 437 of the CrPC was applicable. We have already held that in case of a complaint under Section 44(1)(b) of the PMLA, Section 437 will have no application. Thereafter, this Court discussed the issue as to in what manner discretion should be exercised. Paragraphs 27 to 29 deal with this issue which read thus: “27. Another relied upon by the appellant is the of the Punjab & Haryana High Court in Arun Sharma v. Union of India [Arun Sharma v. Union of India, 2016 SCC OnLine P&H 5954 : (2016) 3 RCR (Cri) 883]. In the above case, the Punjab & Haryana High Court was considering Section 88 CrPC read with Section 65 884 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of the Prevention of Money-Laundering Act. In the above context, following has been observed in para 11: (SCC OnLine P&H) “11. On the same principles, in absence of anything inconsistent in PMLA with Section 88 CrPC, when a person voluntarily appears before the Special Court for PMLA pursuant to issuance of process vide summons or warrant, and offers submission of bonds for further appearances before the court, any consideration of his application for furnishing such bond, would be necessarily governed by Section 88 CrPC read with Section 65 of PMLA. Section 88 CrPC reads as follows: ‘88. Power to take bond for appearance.—When any person for whose appearance or arrest the officer presiding in any court is empowered to issue a summons or warrant, is present in such court, such officer may require such person to execute a bond, with or without sureties, for his appearance in such court, or any other court to which the case may be transferred for trial.’ This Section 88 (corresponding to Section 91 CrPC, 1898) would not apply qua a person whose appearance is not on his volition, but is brought in custody by the authorities as held by the Constitution Bench of the Hon’ble Supreme Court in Madhu Limaye v. Ved Murti [Madhu Limaye v. Ved Murti, (1970) 3 SCC 739] , wherein it was observed that: (SCC p. 745, para 17) ‘17.