16. Discontented with his conviction, the Appellant is in appeal before us. Contentions Of Parties : 17. Mr. Dushyant Dave, learned Senior Counsel for the Appellant, argued that the High Court erred in upholding the Appellant’s conviction under Section 302/34 IPC. Substantiating this, he made the following submissions: a) The prosecution’s case presented inherent contradictions. On the one hand, the two eyewitnesses (P.W.10 and P.W.11), 228 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports relied upon by the courts below, testified that the entire incident unfolded inside Bhairav Shastri’s Jhuggi, situated near that of the Complainant, (P.W.10). On the other hand, the Investigating Officer (P.W.14), during his cross-examination, stated that no quarrel took place near P.W.10’s Jhuggi, and that there was no ‘Bhairon Baba Temple’ or residence near the site of occurrence. It was argued that since the incident admittedly occurred inside a Jhuggi, it is unbelievable that the eyewitnesses could have seen it. b) It was contended that the presence of the Appellant at the place of incident is stoutly disputed, and such an inference can be well drawn from the statement of the Complainant herself. The incident took place around 9:30 pm, posing visibility challenges for the witnesses. Usha Bai (the Complainant, P.W.10) has deposed that she was familiar with accused Ahamd, Asghar Ali, Ravi, and Kanija Bi but was aware of the other accused by name only. This clearly indicates that P.W.10 was not acquainted with the Appellant. Barring the eyewitness account, there is no other credible evidence to suggest that the Appellant was present or participated in the occurrence. c) Further, the knife injury could not be attributed to the Appellant, as testified by Lallu Vishwakarma (P.W.11), who explicitly stated that he couldn’t discern who assaulted whom. d) That apart, it was urged that the weapon confiscated from the Appellant underwent a Forensic Science Laboratory (hereinafter, ‘FSL’) examination, producing inconclusive results, which bolsters the Appellant’s case that he was falsely implicated. e) Finally, it was canvassed that the statement of the deceased Tularam, recorded by Investigating Officer Girish Bohre (P.W.14) under Section 161 CrPC, could not have been considered a ‘dying declaration’ due to the absence of certification from the doctor regarding Tularam’s mental fitness. f) Even otherwise, a dying declaration made before the Investigating Officer/ Police is always shrouded by suspicious circumstances and no reliance thereupon can be made. 18. Per Contra, Ms. Mrinal Gopal Elker, learned counsel on behalf of the State, argued that the impugned dated 19.12.2017 does not warrant any interference by this Court. She submitted as follows: [2024] 7 S.C.R. 229 Dharmendra Kumar @ Dhamma v. State of Madhya Pradesh a) The Courts below have expressly affirmed the presence of the Appellant at the site of incident and his involvement in the occurrence, based on the testimony of Lallu Vishwakarma (P.W.11). She argued that Vishwakarma’s cross-examination provides no reason to doubt his version qua the Appellant. b) There is a specific accusation against the Appellant of inflicting the knife blow on the deceased Tillu’s abdomen, which is supported by the Medical Legal Certificate (MLC) conducted by Dr. R.S.