If such a formalistic interpretation is adopted, fundamental rights would be made subservient to legislative language. The preamble of the Annamalai University Act certainly provides context to the incorporation of the University and brings out the distinction between incorporation and establishment. However, the courts in the absence of such an elaborate preamble must not be ready to conclude that Parliament established the University. The courts must identify the circumstances surrounding the incorporation of the University (including through a reading of the statute) to identify who established the university. Formalism must give way to actuality and to what is real. 113. The written submissions filed on behalf of the Union of India place reliance on Dalco Engg. (P) Ltd. v. Satish Prabhakar Padhye98 to argue that the term ‘establish’ means “coming into existence by virtue of a statutory enactment”. It suggests that the institution owes 98 (2010) 4 SCC 378 1740 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports its existence to the legislature if the long title to an enactment states that it is an act to “establish and incorporate”. 114. In Dalco (supra), the question before this Court was whether companies incorporated in terms of the Companies Act 1956 were bound by the norm contained in Section 47 of the same enactment. Section 47 stipulated that an ‘establishment’ shall not dispense with or reduce in rank an employee who acquires a disability during their service.99 Section 2(k) of the same statute defined ‘establishment’ in the following terms: “2. Definitions.—In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,— … (k) ‘establishment’ means a corporation established by or under a Central, Provincial or State Act, or an authority or a body owned or controlled or aided by the Government or a local authority or a government company as defined in Section 617 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956) and includes Departments of a Government;” (emphasis supplied) 115. After analysing the precedents, this Court held that Section 2(k) referred to companies which owe their existence to a statute. It held that without such a statute, the company would not exist. It held that the term “established by or under” in Section 2(k) referred to companies which are created by statutes and not ones which are merely governed by statutes after coming into existence. This court, therefore, held that companies incorporated and registered under the Companies Act 1956 are not necessarily established by it. 99 Section 47, Companies Act 1956: “47. Non-discrimination in government employment.—(1) No establishment shall dispense with, or reduce in rank, an employee who acquires a disability during his service: Provided that, if an employee, after acquiring disability is not suitable for the post he was holding, could be shifted to some other post with the same pay scale and service benefits: Provided further that if it is not possible to adjust the employee against any post, he may be kept on a supernumerary post until a suitable post is available or he attains the age of superannuation, whichever is earlier.