The decisions in Gram Panchayat (supra) and Maharashtra Tubes (supra) considered the unamended Section 22(1) of the 1985 Act. However, the said provision came to be amended by the Sick Industrial Companies (Amendment) Act, 1994 which came into effect from 01.02.1994. The suit in question before us having been filed in 1996, it is the amended Section 22(1) which would apply. Thus, we shall now look into some of the decisions wherein the amended Section 22(1) of the 1985 Act was interpreted. 78. The question whether proceedings for the recovery of dues arising after the sanctioning of the scheme would also be covered under the protective umbrella of Section 22(1) of the 1985 Act fell for the consideration of a two-judge bench of this Court in Deputy Commercial Tax Officer and Others v. Corromandal [2024] 5 S.C.R. 355 Fertilizer Corporation of India Limited & Ors. v. M/s Coromandal Sacks Private Limited Pharmaceuticals and Others reported in (1997) 10 SCC 649. This Court, while answering the issue in the negative, distinguished the facts before it from the decisions in Gram Panchayat (supra) and Maharashtra Tubes (supra) and held thus: “13. On a fair reading of the provisions contained in Chapter III of Act 1 of 1986 and in particular Sections 15 to 22, we are of the opinion that the plea put forward by the Revenue is reasonable and fair in all the circumstances of the case. Under the statute, the BIFR is to consider in what way various preventive or remedial measures should be afforded to a sick industrial company. In that behalf, BIFR is enabled to frame an appropriate scheme. To enable the BIFR to do so, certain preliminaries are required to be followed. It starts with the reference to be made by the Board of Directors of the sick company. The BIFR is directed to make appropriate inquiry as provided in Sections 16 and 17 of the Act. At the conclusion of the inquiry, after notice and opportunity afforded to various persons including the creditors, the BIFR is to prepare a scheme which shall come into force on such date as it may specify in that behalf. It is in implementation of the scheme wherein various preventive, remedial or other measures are designed for the sick industrial company, steps by way of giving financial assistance etc. by Government, banks or other institutions, are contemplated. In other words, the scheme is implemented or given effect to, by affording financial assistance by way of loans, advances or guarantees or reliefs or concessions or sacrifices by Government, banks, public financial institutions and other authorities. In to see that the scheme is successfully implemented and no impediment is caused for the successful carrying out of the scheme, the Board is enabled to have a say when the steps for recovery of the amounts or other coercive proceedings are taken against sick industrial company which, during the relevant time, acts under the guidance/ control or supervision of the Board (BIFR). Any step for execution, distress or the like against the properties of the industrial company or other similar steps should not be pursued which will cause delay or impediment in the 356 [2024] 5 S.C.R.