The of detention may refer to the previous criminal antecedents only if they have a direct nexus or link with the immediate need to detain an individual. If the previous criminal activities of the appellant could indicate his tendency or inclination to act in a manner prejudicial to the maintenance of public , then it may have a bearing on the subjective satisfaction of the detaining authority. However, in the absence of a clear indication of a causal connection, a mere reference to the pending criminal cases cannot account for the requirements of Section 3. It is not open to the detaining authority to simply refer to stale incidents and hold them as the basis of an of detention. Such stale material will have no bearing on the probability of the detenu engaging in prejudicial activities in the future.” (Emphasis supplied) 39. Ameena Begum (supra) has also referred to in para 53 of its to the decision of this Court in Shibban Lal Saksena v. State of Uttar Pradesh and Others reported in (1953) 2 SCC 617, wherein Justice B.K. Mukherjea speaking for the Bench observed as under: “8. The first contention raised by the learned counsel raises, however, a somewhat important point which requires careful consideration. It has been repeatedly held by this Court that the power to issue a detention under Section 3 of the Preventive Detention Act depends entirely upon the satisfaction of the appropriate authority specified in that section. The sufficiency of the grounds upon which such satisfaction purports to be based, provided they have a rational probative value and are not extraneous to the scope [2024] 3 S.C.R. 1217 Nenavath Bujji Etc. v. The State of Telangana and Ors. or purpose of the legislative provision cannot be challenged in a court of law, except on the ground of mala fides [State of Bombay v. Atma Ram Shridhar Vaidya, 1951 SCC 43 : 1951 SCR 167] . A court of law is not even competent to enquire into the truth or otherwise of the facts which are mentioned as grounds of detention in the communication to the detenue under Section 7 of the Act. What has happened, however, in this case is somewhat peculiar. The Government itself in its communication dated 13-3-1953, has plainly admitted that one of the grounds upon which the original of detention was passed is unsubstantial or non-existent and cannot be made a ground of detention. The question is, whether in such circumstances the original made under Section 3(1)(a)of the Act can be allowed to stand. The answer, in our opinion, can only be in the negative. The detaining authority gave here two grounds for detaining the petitioner. We can neither decide whether these grounds are good or bad, nor can we attempt to assess in what manner and to what extent each of these grounds operated on the mind of the appropriate authority and contributed to the creation of the satisfaction on the basis of which the detention was made. To say that the other ground, which still remains, is quite sufficient to sustain the , would be to substitute an objective judicial test for the subjective decision of the executive authority which is against the legislative policy underlying the statute.