676 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports All of them under conspiracy want to grab the money of the applicant’s firm, after which the applicant had given a legal notice to the above mentioned people through his advocate on 18th June 2020 but even after receiving the notice, the above people neither gave any reply to the notice nor was the applicant’s outstanding amount paid. In this context, the applicant gave an application to Inspector-in-charge of Kotwali Khurja Nagar on 25.07.2021 and on 06.08.2021, an application letter was sent to SSP Sir Bulandshahar through postal registry, but till date no action has been taken nor has the applicant’s report been registered. Therefore, it is prayed that after the investigation, please summon the accused along with evidence to the court and punish them for the crime committed by them. Date 27.08.2021” (ii) The plain reading of the complaint would indicate that the appellant No. 1 is a legal entity. The appellant No. 2 is the Secretary of the appellant No. 1 Company, and the appellant No. 3 is the Honorary President and Non-Executive Director of the appellant No. 1 Company. They used to purchase grains and oats from the complainant meant to be fed to the horses maintained by the appellant No. 1 Company. According to the complainant, an amount of Rs. 9,11,434/- (Rupees Nine Lakh Eleven Thousand Four Hundred Thirty Four) is due and payable to him by the appellants towards the sale of horse grains and oats over a period of time. It is alleged that as the appellants failed to make the payment, he thought fit to file the complaint as according to him he has been cheated by the appellants. (iii) The court concerned initially took cognizance upon the complaint but postponed the issuance of process as it thought fit to initiate magisterial inquiry under Section 202 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (for short, “CrPC”). The statement of the complainant recorded by the Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate in the course of the magisterial inquiry under Section 202 of the CrPC reads thus: [2024] 8 S.C.R. 677 Delhi Race Club (1940) Ltd. & Ors. v. State of Uttar Pradesh & Anr. “Name of the witness Ankit Agarwal S/o Vipin Agarwal aged about 34 years, Occupation-Businessman, resident of 13, Malpura, Subhash Road, Khurja, PS- Khurja Nagar, District Bulandshahar today on 08.3.22 on oath gave statement that:- Vipin Kumar Agarwal is the owner of a firm Agarwal Udyog which is located in New Mandi Khurja. Delhi Race Course Club 1940 Limited has been purchasing horse feed from the above mentioned firm for a long time and payment for the same has been done on time After the year 2017, Delhi Horse Trainers Association President Kazim Ali and Secretary Sanjeev Charan kept paying the goods. Since thereafter, the above mentioned people owe Rs 9,11,434/- to the above firm. After repeated requests, both the above mentioned firms have been telling to make payment to each other but the opposite party has also not made the payment.