Supreme Court Reports institution which, immediately before such commencement, had the word “University” associated with its name.” [Emphasis supplied] 157. Since the UGC Act mandates that degrees can be conferred only by those universities that are established ‘by or under’ a statute, it is a necessary corollary that the university must be operationalized by a statute itself in to validly confer the degrees. Given that the legal existence in this context flows directly from the statute, the question thus arises: does this mean that the minority community does not bring such universities into existence, and that they are instead established by the legislature? Indeed, Azeez Basha (supra) says so. Contrarily, the NCMEI Act,as amended from time to time,enables a minority community to establish a university on its own. There being an apparent inconsistency between the two, the question that arises for further consideration is as to which perspective accurately reflects the correct position—Azeez Basha (supra) or the NCMEI Act? Azeez Basha (supra) v. the NCMEI Act: The curious case of bringing universities into existence 158. In this regard, one needs to note the nuance between legal recognition and other facets of existence. As was discussed before, existence covers other aspects apart from legal sanction. Especially for universities, this Court, in the case of Prof. Yashpal (supra), held that the Statute shall not give legal sanction unless it is satisfied that there exist enough infrastructural facilities within the institution: “44. […] When the Constitution has conferred power on the State to legislate on incorporation of university, any Act providing for establishment of the university must make such provisions that only an institution in the sense of university as it is generally understood with all the infrastructural facilities, where teaching and research on a wide range of subjects and of a particular level are actually done, acquires the status of a university. […]” 45. The State Legislature can make an enactment providing for incorporation of universities under Entry 32 of List II and also generally for universities under Entry 25 of List III. The subject “university” as a legislative head must be [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1833 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. interpreted in the same manner as it is generally or commonly understood, namely, with proper facilities for teaching of higher level and continuing research activity. An enactment which simply clothes a proposal submitted by a sponsoring body or the sponsoring body itself with the juristic personality of a university so as to take advantage of Section 22 of the UGC Act and thereby acquires the right of conferring or granting academic degrees but without having any infrastructure or teaching facility for higher studies or facility for research is not contemplated by either of these entries. Sections 5 and 6 of the impugned enactment are, therefore, wholly ultra vires, being a fraud on the Constitution.” 46. […] In the absence of any campus and other infrastructural facilities, UGC cannot take any measures whatsoever to ensure a proper syllabus, level of teaching, standard of examination and evaluation of academic achievement of the students or even to ensure that the students have undergone the course of study for the prescribed period before the degree is awarded to them.” [Emphasis supplied] 159.