This evinces the legislative intent. Secondly, the legislative preference for the term “terminate” over “suspend” is apparent, since the word “suspend” could cause incongruity and a legal conundrum if no party files an application for an extension of time. In such a scenario, the arbitral proceedings would stand suspended ad infinitum. Therefore, the legislature by using the word “terminate” intends to affirm the principle of party autonomy. Resultantly, if neither party moves an application for an extension of time for making the award, the arbitration proceedings are terminated. Consequences follow. Clearly, the use of the word “suspension” would have led to infeasible ramifications. 11. The word “terminate” in Section 29A(4) makes the arbitral tribunal functus officio, but not in absolute terms. The true purport of the word “terminate” must be understood in light of the syntax of the provision. The absence of a full stop after the word “terminate” is noteworthy. The word “terminate” is followed by the connecting word “unless”, which qualifies the first part with the subsequent limb of the section, i.e. “unless the court has, either prior to or after the expiry of the period so specified, extended the period.” The expression “prior to 18 Oswal Agro Mills Ltd. and Others v. Collector of Central Excise and Others, 1993 Supp (3) SCC 716. 19 Babu Manmohan Das Shah and Others v. Bishun Das, (1967) 1 SCR 836. 20 This Court in Renaissance Hotel Holdings Inc. v. B. Vijaya Sai and Others, (2022) 5 SCC 1 at ¶66 held that “It is thus trite law that while interpreting the provisions of a statute, it is necessary that the textual interpretation should be matched with the contextual one. The Act must be looked at as a whole and it must be discovered what each section, each clause, each phrase and each word is meant and designed to say as to fit into the scheme of the entire Act. No part of a statute and no word of a statute can be construed in isolation. (…)” 484 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports or after the expiry of the period so specified” has to be understood with reference to the power of the court to grant an extension of time. 12. Accordingly, the termination of the arbitral mandate is conditional upon the non-filing of an extension application and cannot be treated as termination stricto sensu. The word “terminate” in the contextual form does not reflect termination as if the proceedings have come to a legal and final end, and cannot continue even on filing of an application for extension of time. Therefore, termination under Section 29A(4) is not set in stone or absolutistic in character.21 13. An interpretive process must recognize the goal or purpose of the legal text.22 Section 29A intends to ensure the timely completion of arbitral proceedings while allowing courts the flexibility to grant extensions when warranted. Prescribing a limitation period, unless clearly stated in words or necessary, should not be accepted. Bar by limitation has penal and fatal consequences.