All it does is that it leaves it open for the parties to the agreement to apply to the court if there are concerns regarding the neutrality or objectivity of arbitrators appointed through the agreed upon procedure. The court will then examine the facts, circumstances, material, and evidence in every application before it, to determine whether a case is made out to appoint an arbitrator de hors the agreement, but such ruling will be specific to that case rather than a declaration prohibiting such agreements altogether. 34. Assertions that a person’s freedom to contract is grounded only in common law and statute, are ostensible at best. The freedom of speech and expression engrafted in Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution and significantly, the freedom to carry on occupation, trade and business Article 19(1)(g) read with the constitutional right to property under Article 300A, do provide a substantial foundation for a constitutional basis for the ‘freedom to contract’. The statutory framework governing contract laws, statutory restrictions on what contracts are lawful, what contracts are void and what considerations are lawful do have significant constitutional moorings. Sections 23 to 30 of the Contract Act reflect constitutional colours, when they 2312 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports declare that agreements in restraint of trade, agreements in restraint of legal proceedings, agreements restraining marriage etc are void. Similarly, this Court has employed constitutional tools from Part III and Part IV of the Constitution to breathe fresh life into the term “public policy” in the context of Section 23 of the Contract Act.61 35. This constitutional re-conceptualisation of contract law is not without relevance in the case. The freedom to contract out of traditional court based remedies and to opt for arbitral remedies is informed and regulated by constitutional considerations. To this end, what subject matters are arbitrable and how remedies are to be designed within the universe of arbitration, are informed not only by considerations of freedom to contract, but also a larger constitutional responsibility to provide access to justice. ‘Party autonomy’ encapsulated within a larger freedom to contract must tempered with a person’s right to access justice and corresponding duty on the State to provide access to justice. 36. Access to justice in this context is not a mere avenue for dispute redressal. It means access to timely, efficacious, and equitable system for dispute resolution. Arbitration though is often referred to as an alternative form of dispute resolution, it has, in practice evolved into a substituted form of dispute resolution. Therefore, arbitral remedies too must withstand constitutional scrutiny and provide access to arbitral tribunals that are not just independent and impartial, but also seem independent and impartial. In this scheme, it matters not whether the tribunal and its composition is decided by the State, PSUs, other State actors, or private entities. The underlying principle is that when party autonomy is exercised to appoint members to the arbitral tribunal, members who are so appointed are not just independent, but must also seem to be independent.