[...] the object of service of notice under this provision clearly is to enable the railway administration to make an inquiry and investigation as to whether the loss, destruction or deterioration was due to the consignor’s laches or to the wilful neglect of the railway administration and its servants and further to prevent stale and possibly dishonest claims being made when, owing to delay, it may be practically [2024] 3 S.C.R. 1089 Union of India v. M/s Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. impossible to trace the transaction or check the allegations made by the consignor or the consignee. It is, therefore, apparent that the provision requiring that notice of claim must be given within six months even where the claim is for refund of an overcharge in respect of animals or goods carried by railway is intended to prevent stale and perhaps dishonest claims being made when, by reason of lapse of time, it may not be possible to inquire and find out whether the claim made is well-founded or not. [...]” (Emphasis supplied) 41. Shah Raichand Amulakh (supra), further held that the term “overcharge in respect of carriage of goods” used in Section 78B of the 1890 Act (now Section 106 of the Act, 1989) means and includes all such charges that are related to the railway’s carrier business and those which are incidental to the carriage of the goods by railway irrespective of whether they are incurred prior to or subsequent to the railway transit, and thus would include loading and unloading of goods. The relevant observations read as under: - “3. [...] To bring the claim for refund within the mischief of the section, the overcharge must be in respect of goods carried by railway. The words “carried by railway” qualify goods and if any overcharge is recovered in respect of goods which satisfy this description, it would be “overcharge” by the railway administration in respect of demurrage and wharfage charges, it is according to the plain and natural meaning of the words, an overcharge in respect of goods which are carried by railway. 1 do not think it is possible to limit the ambit and coverage of the section by reading the words “overcharge in respect of goods carried by railway” as indicating that the overcharge must be in respect of carriage of the goods. To read these words in such a manner would be to refuse to give effect to their plain natural meaning and to rewrite the section by substituting some such words as “overcharge in respect of carriage of goods.” That would be clearly impermissible under any cannon of construction. 4. [...] Demurrage and wharfage charges are thus clearly terminal charges and though it is true that they 1090 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports are charges in respect of the period subsequent to the completion of the transit, all the same, they are incidental to the business of the railway administration as a carrier. These charges are, therefore, not unrelated to the business of a carrier carried on by the railway administration.