As explained in V. Tulasamma (supra) case, the words “possessed by” used in Section 14(1) are of the widest possible amplitude and include the state of owning a property, even though the Hindu woman is not in actual or physical possession of the same. Of course, it is equally well settled that the possession of the widow, must be under some vestige of a claim, right or title, because the section does not contemplate the possession of any rank trespasser without any right or title. 15. The undisputed facts in the instant case are that Dhannalalji, the husband of Bhonri Devi expired in 1936, Ganeshnarayanji, the father-in-law of Bhonri Devi expired in 1938 and Harinarayanji, the brother of Ganeshnarayanji died on 11.11.1953. Daulalji was adopted by Sri Bakshji in the year 1916. Harinarayanji, Ganeshnarayanji and Sri Bakshji had common ancestor Gopalji. It is also not disputed that the suit property was an ancestral property in the hands of Harinarayanji and Ganeshnarayanji. It is also not disputed that Bhonri Devi was staying in the suit property before the death of Harinarayanji, and after his death she was in possession and in charge of the said property, and was maintaining herself by collecting rent from the tenants who were occupying part of the suit property. 308 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 16. Now it appears from the documents on record that the rent notes (Exhibit A-2 to A-11) executed during the period 1955 to 1965 in respect of the part of the suit property, were executed in the name of Bhonri Devi. The concerned defendants in the suit had also filed their written statements, stating that they were paying rent to Bhonri Devi only. It further appears from the document (Exhibit A-13) that Daulalji had raised an objection against Bhonri Devi paying the house tax in respect of the suit property and that the Municipal Commissioner, Jaipur vide dated 28.03.1957 had observed that Bhonri Devi was paying the tax in the past also. An appeal against the said was preferred by Daulalji before the Administrator of Municipal Council, Jaipur however the same was also rejected vide the dated 28.01.1959. It was observed therein that “In this case there is a dispute regarding ownership. Municipal Commissioner who is the reversing authority in his dated 28.03.1957 held that Bhonri Devi who was paying tax to the municipality in the past, should pay the tax and for question of title the concerned party should seek remedy in the Civil Courts.” 17. From the said documents it clearly emerges that Bhonri Devi was paying the house tax prior to 1956 and was collecting the rent from the tenants prior to and after 1956. Pertinently from the document Exhibit-54, it emerges that in 1940 Bhonri Devi, when she was staying with her in-laws, had no source of maintenance, and therefore she was granted Rs. 2.50 per month by way of maintenance, by the Punya Department of the Government. She claiming to be a PARDANASHEEN lady had authorised Daulalji to collect the said amount of maintenance.