Thus, on this score, the High Court committed an error. 104. The respondent company has also undisputedly paid the freight charges as per the notified chargeable distance, and nothing more has been charged than what was at the time of booking of the consignment required to be charged as per the law prevailing i.e., as per the old local distance table. 105. The case of the respondent company is not that it has paid anything in excess of what was at the time of booking of the consignment required by law, rather, the respondent’s case is that the charge which was required to be paid by the law as prevailing at the time of booking of the consignment was wrong. In other words, the respondent’s case is that the very chargeable distance of 444 km as per the old local distance table was wrong, and not that the distance for which the respondent has been charged is incorrect in terms of the chargeable distance that was notified at that time. 1128 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 106. We are seisin of the fact that in J.K. Lakshmi (supra) and Mineral Enterprises (supra) the freight charged due to an incorrect chargeable distance was held to be an overcharge. 106.1 However, a close reading of J.K. Lakshmi (supra) would reveal, that it was not a case where the notified chargeable distance was incorrect, but rather was a mistake of miscalculation on the part of the booking staff i.e., it was a clerical mistake and not a mistake attributable to a charge permitted and notified under the law. It does not appear that the said case was dealing with a situation where the notified or prescribed rate / chargeable distance was wrong, in fact the distance averred to be wrong is not a chargeable distance that has been notified in any manner. The relevant observations read as under: - “[...] The distance between two stations is stated to be only 511 KMs and the Railways alleged to had charged freight for distance of 946 KMs calculating the distance via Rewari. It was stated that because of this mistake in the calculation of the distance from the appellant-Company’s Banas siding to Thiyat Hamira Railway Station, railway freight was charged in excess @ Rs.21.44 per qtl. instead of the applicable rate of Rs.13.11 per qtl. and paid under mistake. Consequently Rs.3,69,775/- was overpaid. This excess realisation was according to the appellant-Company on the face of it arbitrary, unauthorized and illegal and thus refundable by the Railways with interest. xxx xxx xxx He submitted that the factum of the realisation of excess charge in an arbitrary and unauthorized manner by the Railway came to the notice of the appellant-Company only on or about 30.12.1987 when in the course of Government of India audit of the accounts of the appellant-Company with regard to supply of rakes of levy cement from its factory, it transpired that the excess freight had been unauthorizedly realized by the Railway [2024] 3 S.C.R.