(5). So long as the later communications do not make out a new ground, their contents are no infringement of the two procedural rights of the detenu mentioned in the clause. They may consist of a narration of facts or particulars relating to the grounds already supplied. But in doing so, the time factor in respect of the second duty, viz., to give the detained person the earliest opportunity to make a representation, cannot be overlooked. That appears to us to be the result of cl. (5) of Art. 22.” (emphasis supplied) ● Harikisan v. State of Maharashtra, AIR 1962 SC 911 “7. It has not been found by the High Court that the appellant knew enough English to understand the grounds of his detention. The High Court has only stated that “he has studied up to 7th Hindi standard, which is equivalent to 3rd English standard”. The High Court negatived the contention raised on behalf of the appellant not on the ground that the appellant knew enough English, to understand the case against him, but on the ground, as already indicated, that the service upon him of the and grounds of detention in English was enough communication to him to enable him to make his representation. We must, therefore, proceed on the assumption that the appellant did not know enough English to understand the grounds, contained in many paragraphs as indicated above in to be able effectively to make his representation against the of Detention. The learned Attorney-General 278 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports has tried to answer this contention in several ways. He has first contended that when the Constitution speaks of communicating the grounds of detention to the detenue, it means communication in the official language, which continues to be English; secondly, the communication need not be in writing and the translation and explanation in Hindi offered by the Inspector of Police, while serving the of detention and the grounds, would be enough compliance with the requirements of the law and the Constitution; and thirdly, that it was not necessary in the circumstances of the case to supply the grounds in Hindi. In our opinion, this was not sufficient compliance in this case with the requirements of the Constitution, as laid down in cl. (5) of Art. 22. To a person, who is not conversant with the English language, service of the and the grounds of detention in English, with their oral translation or explanation by the police officer serving them does not fulfil the requirements of the law. As has been explained by this Court in the case of The State of Bombay v. Atma Ram Sridhar, 1951 SCR 167 : (AIR 1951 SC 157), cl. (5) of Art. 22 requires that the grounds of his detention should be made available to the detenue as soon as may be, and that the earliest opportunity of making a representation against the should also be afforded to him. In that the detenue should have that opportunity, it is not sufficient that he has been physically delivered the means of knowledge with which to make his representation.