Fifthly, Kesoram also failed to note that the Parliament enacted the Validation Act, 1992 on the definite premise that the States did not have the legislative competence to levy the impugned levies which were rightfully set aside by this Court in a series of s starting from Hingir-Rampur. Sixthly, I may observe that the Validation Act, 1992 clearly established that the dicta of this Court in India Cement, Orissa Cement and other cases which followed the said are correct and were accepted by the Parliament which acted on it by passing the Validation Act. Seventhly, in Kannadasan, the validity of the Validation Act, 1992 was upheld. This clearly established the fact that the State’s levies which were quashed and set aside by this Court in India Cement and other cases were not relatable to Entry 49 - List II. If that was so, then Parliament could not have enacted the Validation Act, 1992 as only States can levy taxes on lands and buildings under the Entry 49 – List II. Eighthly, the actual basis for the majority in Kesoram doubting the in India Cement is on the premise that there is a distinction between the power to regulate and control and the power to tax, the [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1825 Mineral Area Development Authority & Anr. v. M/s Steel Authority of India & Anr. Etc. two being distinct and different. It was held that the taxation Entry i.e. Entry 50 – List II could not be controlled by Entry 54 – List I which is a regulatory Entry which is meant for regulation for mines and mineral development under the control of the Union. That may be so in the case of many other Entries, however, Entry 50 – List II is unique inasmuch as the taxation Entry namely, the power to impose taxes on mineral rights is itself subject to any limitations imposed by Parliament by law relating to mineral development. In the context of mineral development, limitations could be imposed by Parliament by law vis-à-vis the power to impose taxes on mineral rights which is evident on a reading of Entry 50 – List II. The reason being, exercise of mineral rights is related to mineral development which is a subject under Entry 54 – List I. This coalescing of the subjects in Entry 50 – List II with Entry 54 – List I has not been noticed whereas in India Cement as well as in Laddu Mal and in Laxminarayana Mining Co., this aspect has been the foundation of the reasoning. 28. In view of the aforesaid discussion, I differ from the of Hon’ble the Chief Justice of India, and hold that India Cement, Orissa Cement, Mahalaxmi Fabric Mills, Saurashtra Cement, Mahanadi Coalfields, Kannadasan excluding to the extent overruled in Tata Iron and Steel, and Tata Iron and Steel have been correctly decided and therefore, are binding precedent and cannot be overruled. Entries 49 and 50 – List II: 29. The second aspect of this case which also requires consideration is with regard to interplay of Entries 49 and 50 - List II in the context of mineral bearing lands.