A suit for the recovery of a specified sum under a contract cannot be said to be a suit of the nature where pecuniary compensation would not afford adequate relief. We are, therefore, of the opinion that the suit out of which this civil revision arises cannot be said to be a suit for the specific performance of a contract and will not be governed by Article 113 of the First Schedule to the Indian Limitation Act, 1908 xxxxx xxxxx [2024] 9 S.C.R. 579 OPG Power Generation Private Limited v. Enexio Power Cooling Solutions India Private Limited & Anr. 13. We now proceed to consider why Article 115 of the First Schedule to the Limitation Act should apply to the facts of the present case. Article 115 applies when there is a breach of contract, and suit is for compensation for the loss suffered by the innocent party. A breach of contract ‘occurs where a party repudiates or fails to perform one or more of the obligations imposed upon him by the contract’: (vide Cheshire and Fifoot, p 484). ‘If one of two parties to a contract breaks the obligation which the contract imposes, a new obligation will in every case arise – a right of action conferred upon the party injured by the breach’ (vide Anson’s Law of Contract, p 412). Admittedly, in the present case, there was a contract and according to the plaintiff and the findings of the court a breach of contract had occurred inasmuch as the defendants failed to pay the stipulated amount upon the date fixed under the contract. 14. Difficulty can, however, be caused by the word ‘compensation’ used in Article 115. It can be argued that the words compensation for breach of contract point rather to a claim for unliquidated damages than to the payment of a certain sum, and, therefore, where the suit is for the recovery of a specified sum, and not for the determination of unliquidated damages, this article should not apply. In our opinion this contention would be wholly untenable because it was not accepted by this court in the Full Bench case of Hussain Ali Khan versus Hafiz Ali Khan95 and by the Privy Council in the case of Tricomdas Coovarji Bhoja versus Sri Gopinath Jiu Thakur.96 In the case of Husain Ali Khan Article 116 of Schedule II of the Limitation Act (Act XV of 1877) was the subject of interpretation. Articles 115 and 116 of Schedule II of Act XV of 1877 have been reproduced verbatim in the Indian Limitation Act, 1908. Article 115 deals with the breach of contracts not in writing and registered while Article 116 provided for breach of contracts in writing and registered. 95 I.L.R. 3 All 600 96 AIR 1916 PC 182 580 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports It is, therefore, obvious, that the meaning which has to be given to the words ‘compensation for breach of contract’ occurring in both the Articles will have to be the same.