(xvii) As such, the allegations about the violation of statutory provisions for the establishment of the ‘Tiger Safari’ are without substance. (xviii) That, the report of the Forest Survey of India (“FSI” for short) which was entrusted with the work of carrying out the survey regarding the illegal felling of trees is concerned, the same does not depict a correct picture. (xix) That, the total area involved in the construction of the ‘Tiger Safari’ was approximately 16 Hectares and it is impossible that in such a small area, 6000 trees could be felled. (xx) When the State applied for Forest Clearance for the establishment of the ‘Tiger Safari’ project, the number of trees present in the 16 Hectares was enumerated after counting them physically which was also contained in the proposal. The said proposal mentioned that there are 3,620 trees standing on the site. (xxi) In the survey conducted by the Forest Department, it was found that, apart from 163 trees for which there was valid permission, an additional 97 trees were cut down in the process. [2024] 3 S.C.R. 211 In Re: T.N. Godavarman Thirumulpad v. Union of India & Ors. In Re: Gaurav Kumar Bansal (xxii) That, the FSI report is based on Google Image calculation and does not depict the correct picture. (xxiii) That, the FSI was asked by the State of Uttarakhand to provide the methodology used for arriving at its report, but the FSI failed to do so. (xxiv) That, the works which are carried out after obtaining the permission of this Court by dated 28th November 2023 are all routine management activities, such as setting up of watch towers and other necessary activities required for the day-to-day management of the Sanctuaries, National Parks and Reserves. (xxv) Insofar as Interpretation Centre is concerned, it was submitted that the Interpretation Centre has been held to be a ‘forestry activity’ not requiring Forest Clearance from the Central Government. (xxvi) It was further submitted that, the area of Pakhrau Tiger Safari is 106.16 Hectares, which amounts to only 0.082% of the total area of the Corbett Tiger Reserve and 0.22% of the buffer area of the Tiger Reserve. In any case, it is situated at the edge of the buffer zone. On the other side of the buffer zone, there are farm lands of the villagers residing in the adjoining area. As such, the contention that the establishment of ‘Tiger Safari’ would shrink the available tiger habitat and as such, obstruct the corridors for the movements of the tigers is without substance. 6. Ms. Aishwarya Bhati, learned ASG submitted that the 2016 Guidelines took into consideration the concern of injured tigers, conflict tigers, or orphaned tiger cubs. However, the 2019 Guidelines were issued to bring it in tune with Section 38I of the WLP Act. It is submitted that, in the TCP submitted by the State of Uttarakhand, a ‘Tiger Safari’ was proposed at the Karnashram area of Lansdowne Forest Division. Ms. Bhati submitted that there are about 20 Safaris situated in the National Parks.