2.7. Being aggrieved thereby, the accused/appellants preferred appeals before the High Court. The High Court by the impugned dismissed the same and affirmed the of conviction and sentence awarded by the trial court. Being aggrieved thereby, the present appeals. 3. We have heard Shri Mohd. Adeel Siddiqui, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants and Shri Sharan Thakur, learned Additional Advocate General (AAG) appearing on behalf of the respondent-State. 4. Shri Mohd. Siddiqui submits that the conviction is based only on the dying declaration of the deceased (Ex. Ka-6). He submits that the dying declaration (Ext. Ka-6) is not free from doubt. It is submitted that the Discharge Slip (Ext. Ka-7) would show that the deceased was discharged from the District Hospital, Moradabad on 1st December 2016 at 05:00 pm. It is therefore impossible that the dying declaration (Ext. Ka-6) could have been recorded between 08:48 pm and 09:15 pm. The learned counsel therefore submits that the said dying declaration (Ext. Ka-6) cannot be said to be [2024] 3 S.C.R. 41 Naeem v. State of Uttar Pradesh trustworthy, reliable and cogent so as to base the conviction solely on the basis of the same. 5. Per contra, Shri Thakur submits that, both the trial court and the High Court, on the correct appreciation of evidence, rightly convicted the accused/appellants and as such, no interference would be warranted with the concurrent findings of the trial court and the High Court. The learned AAG submits that Raj Kumar Bhaskar (PW-5), the then Naib Tehsildar, has deposed about the dying declaration (Ext. Ka-6). Shri Thakur submits that the dying declaration (Ext. Ka-6) also contains the certification by Dr. A.K. Singh, Emergency Medical Officer, District Hospital, Moradabad regarding the medical fitness of the victim both prior to and after recording the dying declaration (Ext. Ka-6). 6. Undisputedly, in the present case, the conviction is based solely on the dying declaration (Ext. Ka-6). The law with regard to conviction on the sole basis of dying declaration has been considered by this Court in a catena of s. After considering the earlier s, this Court, in the case of Atbir v. Government of NCT of Delhi1, has laid down certain factors to be taken into consideration while resting the conviction on the basis of dying declaration. It will be apposite to refer to para (22) of the said , which reads thus: “22. The analysis of the above decisions clearly shows that: (i) Dying declaration can be the sole basis of conviction if it inspires the full confidence of the court. (ii) The court should be satisfied that the deceased was in a fit state of mind at the time of making the statement and that it was not the result of tutoring, prompting or imagination. (iii) Where the court is satisfied that the declaration is true and voluntary, it can base its conviction without any further corroboration. (iv) It cannot be laid down as an absolute rule of law that the dying declaration cannot form the sole basis of conviction unless it is corroborated.