On being asked as to why the property was purchased in his name when it was sold within two months to Bishnu Agarwal, he stated that it was only done on the instructions of Prem Prakash. 41. The statement mentions that apart from 25 lakhs, six post-dated cheques were also given. Thereafter, it only speaks of the appellant advising the purchase and sale of the land. Prima facie, they do not detract from the reasonable grounds of belief that we entertain to the effect that the appellant is not guilty of the offence under Section 3 and 4. Bishnu Kumar Agarwal (A9) on bail – has attained finality 42. We, prima facie, find that from the statements of the appellant and also from the other statements and other material relied upon by the investigating agency, there is nothing to indicate that the petitioner was involved in the creation of the forged deed nor had any knowledge of the forged sale deed of 1948. In the enlarging Bishnu Kumar Agarwal on bail it was observed that-it was a plausible view to hold that Bishnu Kumar Agarwal was a bonafide purchaser of the property concerned in the present matter. It has also been held therein that no criminality could have been found against Bishnu Kumar Agarwal in the making of the sale consideration later and registration of the sale earlier. Support has been drawn from Section 54 of the Transfer of Property Act. The same also makes a reference to para 10.6.6 of the complaint filed by the ED where it has been mentioned that the investigation of the Enforcement Directorate has revealed that complainant in FIR No. 399 of 2022, Umesh Kumar Gope was himself frivolously exerting his claim over the said property. Be that as it may, the of bail granted to Bishnu Kumar Agarwal has attained finality. 982 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 43. Moreover, there is no material placed on record to show as to on what basis it is claimed that the beneficial interest in M/s Jamini Enterprises lies with the appellant. Hence, the statements relied upon do not prima facie make out a case of money laundering against the appellant. 44. The complaint also adverts to two other transactions with which Bishnu Kumar Agarwal is being investigated. Nothing can be elicited from the record about the involvement of the appellant and as to the initiation of any proceeding against him with regard to the other transactions with which Bishnu Kumar Agarwal is involved. 45. In this scenario, we hold that the appellant has satisfied the twin conditions under Section 45. Inasmuch as from the material on record, this Court is satisfied that there are reasonable grounds for believing that the appellant is not guilty of the offence of Money Laundering as alleged under Sections 3 and 4 of the PMLA and the Court is further satisfied that the appellant is not likely to commit any offence, if enlarged on bail. Arguments about criminal antecedents.