List the matter on 09.07.2024 at 12:30 PM. 3. In case of any urgency in the matter or on any ground for which the petitioner wants to seek interim bail, it will be well within his right to do so and the same will be decided on merits as per law. 4. Interim (s), if any, to continue, till the next date of hearing. 5. Copy of this be given dasti under the signature Court Master. 6. The be uploaded on the website forthwith.” The application moved before the Court was for vacating the stay. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 989 Parvinder Singh Khurana v. Directorate of Enforcement It is very difficult to understand the propriety of granting liberty to the appellant to apply for interim bail without even touching the application for vacating interim relief. The High Court ignored the extreme urgency of hearing the application for vacating the stay. The Court ignored that the drastic of stay of bail had continued for 11 months which was passed without considering the merits. The appellant got no solace by the direction of the High Court that a copy of the said be given dasti and that the same shall be uploaded forthwith. 16. In this case, it is so apparent from the first impugned dated 23rd June 2023 that the granting bail was mechanically stayed without considering merits. The application was kept on 26th June 2023 at 2.30 pm. The High Court ought to have heard the parties on the prayer for interim relief on 26th June 2023 if the main application for cancellation of bail could not be heard. From 23rd June 2023 till the end of June 2024, the application for cancellation of bail was listed on 28 different dates. As noted earlier, there were three recusals. One recusal was made more than one month after the was reserved. The result of all this is that the ex-parte of stay granted on 23rd June 2023, without considering the merits of the case, continued to operate for one year. Thus, the of stay granted without hearing the accused continued to operate for more than one year without hearing the accused on merits. Whether such an approach violated the fundamental right to liberty of the appellant is a serious question we must ask ourselves. Except for stating that this is a sorry state of affairs, we cannot say anything further as we must show restraint. Ultimately, in vacation, this Court granted a stay on 7th June 2024 to the of stay, paving the way for the appellant’s release on bail in terms of the dated 17th June 2023, passed one year ago. 17. There may be good reasons for three learned Judges to have recused themselves. But surely, the ex-parte staying the of bail passed without considering merits cannot continue to operate for one year without the appellant getting a hearing on the issue of continuation of the interim . All Courts have to be sensitive about the most important fundamental right conferred under our Constitution, which is the right to liberty under Article 21.