This Court took into consideration the mitigating factors i.e., young age of the accused, possibility of reformation and the convict not being a menace to society. On the other side of the weighing scale, was the fact that the accused had betrayed the trust of the deceased who was his first cousin and the fact that the act was premeditated. This Court modified the death sentence to one of imprisonment for a period of 25 (twenty five) years with remissions. 47. Raju Jagdish Paswan v. State of Maharashtra, (2019) 16 SCC 380 was a case where the accused was convicted for the rape and murder of minor girl aged about nine years and sentenced to death by the trial court which was affirmed by the High Court. This Court noted the mitigating factors i.e., murder was not pre-planned, young age of the accused, no evidence to show that the accused is a continuing threat to society and the aggravating factors i.e., the 942 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports nature of the crime and the interest of society, if petitioner is let out after fourteen years, imposed a sentence of life imprisonment for 30 (thirty years) without remission. 48. In X v. State of Maharashtra, (2019) 7 SCC 1 the accused was sentenced to death by this Court on his conviction for committing rape and murder of two minor girls who lived near his house. However, in review, the question placed before the Court was whether post- conviction mental illness be a mitigating factor. This Court answered it in the affirmative but cautioned that in only extreme cases of mental illness can this factor be taken into consideration. The Court reduced the sentence from death to life imprisonment for the remainder of his life as he still poses as a threat to society. 49. In Irappa Siddappa Murgannavar v. State of Karnataka, (2022) 2 SCC 801, this Court affirmed conviction of the accused, inter alia, under S. 302 and 376 but modified the sentence from death to life imprisonment for minimum 30 (thirty years). This Court stated that mitigating factors such as young age of the accused, no criminal antecedents, act not being pre-planned, socio-economic background of the accused and the fact that conduct of the accused inside jail was ‘satisfactory’ concluded that sufficient mitigating circumstances exists to commute the death sentence. 50. In Shiva Kumar v. State of Karnataka, (2023) 9 SCC 817, this Court opined that the facts of the case shocked the conscience of the Court. The accused was found guilty of rape and murder of a twenty eight year old married woman who was returning from her workplace. Despite noting that the case did not fall under the ‘rarest of rare’ category, the Court stated that while considering the possibility of reformation of the accused, Courts held that showing undue leniency in such a brutal case will adversely affect the public confidence in the efficacy of the legal system. It concluded that a fixed term of 30 (thirty years) should be imposed.