18. HPCL having advertised Haripal as the location within Haripal block for the LPG distributorship and without there being anything more in the Advertisement with specifics as to the ‘locality’, the candidature of the appellant and the land offered by him for the showroom had to be considered bearing in mind the relevant clauses of the Unified Guidelines, viz. clauses 1 c. i. and 1 y. defining ‘Rurban Vitrak’9 and ‘Location’10, respectively, and 8 A (n) regarding ‘Showroom’11. 19. It would be convenient at this stage to look at Sl. Nos. 608 to 631 of the Advertisement, comprised in Part 2 (supra). In all but one of the locations, LPG distributorships were on offer at the instance of 9 Rurban Vitrak: In this document, the word Rural Urban means LPG distributor located in ‘Urban Area’ and also providing service to the LPG Customers in specified ‘Rural Area’, generally covering all villages falling within 15 Kms. From the municipal limits of the LPG distributorship location and or the area specified by the respective OMCs. LPG distributors servicing this area will be called Rurban Vitrak. 10 Location – In this document, word location means the area identified for setting up of new LPG Distributor. It can be a locality/village/cluster of villages/town or city which is mentioned in the Notice for Appointment of LPG Distributors. 11 Showroom: (Applicable only for … Rurban Vitrak … locations and not for …) The applicant should ‘Own’ a suitable shop for Showroom of minimum size … as on the last date for submission of application as specified either in the advertisement or corrigendum (if any) at the advertised location i.e. within the municipal/town/village limits of the place which is mentioned under the column of ‘location’ in the advertisement. In case locality is also specified under the column of ‘location’ in the advertisement, the candidate should own … in the said locality. In case an applicant has more than one shop … at the advertised location or locality as specified under the column of ‘location’ in the advertisement, the details of the same can also be provided in the application. The applicant should have ownership as defined under the term ‘Own’ … Applicants having registered lease deed commencing on any date prior to the date of advertisement will also be considered provided the lease is valid for a minimum period of 15 years from the date of advertisement. … 834 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports IOCL. Majorly, the locations have ‘Type of Market/Distributorship’ as ‘Urban’ while the rest are ‘Rurban’. In several of the locations advertised ranging between Sl. Nos. 608 and 631, except Sl. No.624 being the subject location, the locations within brackets indicate the locality12 where the concerned OMC13 intended to appoint an LPG distributor. As and by way of example, one may profitably refer to Sl. Nos. 613 and 619. While both indicate Kolkata as locations, the former within brackets has Salt Lake within Bidhannagar Municipality and the latter China Town within Kolkata Municipal Corporation areas.