Therefore, we are disinclined to accept such an argument. b) Interpretation must not result in impractical outcomes 77. It is well-settled that a statute should be interpreted in a manner that avoids leading to unworkable or impractical outcomes.35 If a statutory interpretation results in confusion, impracticability or creates burden that the legislature could not have intended, such an interpretation should be avoided. Mr. Jayant Bhushan, Learned Senior Counsel, placed reliance on Section 9(6) of MV Act and Rule 15(2) of MV Rules to argue that if one wants an endorsement of a ‘transport vehicle’ class, the person has to be tested on a ‘transport vehicle’ and not a ‘Maruti-800 car’. Let us test this argument by again taking the hypothetical example of Sri who holds an LMV license and is desirous of operating an auto for commercial purposes and as such applies separately for a license of a ‘Transport Vehicle’ class. 35 Madan and Co. v. Wazir Jaivir Chand (1989) 1 SCC 264 [2024] 11 S.C.R. 609 M/s Bajaj Alliance General Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Rambha Devi & Ors. Crucially, Section 9 dealing with ‘Grant of driving license’ provides in sub-section (6) as under: “(6) The test of competence to drive shall be carried out in a vehicle of the type to which the application refers:” 78. Sub-section (2) of Rule 15 of MV Rules titled ‘Driving Test’ read thus: “(2) The test of competence to drive referred to in sub- section (3) of section 9 shall be conducted by the licensing authority or such other person as may be authorised in this behalf by the State Government in a vehicle of the type to which the application relates.” 79. The type of the vehicle referred above, under the ‘Transport Vehicle’ class could therefore either be a three-wheeler weighing less than 7,500 kgs or a heavy passenger vehicle of more than 12,000 kgs, if the class for which Sri applied is broadly taken as a ‘transport Vehicle’, with no distinction between heavy, medium or light category. Then our hypothetical driver Sri, although will be tested to drive an ‘auto’, could end up driving a heavy passenger vehicle using the ‘Transport Vehicle’ license. Such a conclusion on valid authority would be incompatible in the context. 80. Let us also look at the syllabus that would be prescribed for Sri for his application to drive a ‘Transport Vehicle’. As noted earlier, for ‘Transport Vehicles’, the syllabus as per Rule 31 is contained in Part E, F, G, H, I, J and K: Part A: Driving Theory-I Part B: Traffic Education-I Part C: Light Vehicles Driving Practice Part D: Vehicle Mechanism and Repairs Part E: Medium and Heavy Vehicle Driving: Driving Theory-II Part F: Traffic Education—II Part G. Public Relations For Drivers Part H. Heavy Vehicle Driving Practice Part I. Fire Hazards 610 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Part J. Vehicle Maintenance Part K. First Aid the syllabus is contained in Part E, F, G, H, I, J and K: 81.