13.5 Reference may be made to a recent decision of a three-Judge Bench of this Court in Coal India Ltd. vs. CCI, (2023) 10 SCC 345, (“Coal India Ltd.”) (of which I was a Member).In the said case, it was mainly contended that the coal mines operated by the appellants therein pursuant to the provisions of the Coal Mines (Nationalisation) Act, 1973 would be wholly outside the purview of the Competition Act, 2002. This was 236 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports for the reason that the very purpose and policy underlying the Nationalisation Act was to monopolise the operation of the coal mines and coal mining in the hands of the Central Government and its agencies such as the appellant therein. It was contended that it was a monopoly created by the Nationalisation Act and was accorded protection of Article 31B of the Constitution by inserting the said Act in the Ninth Schedule and it was not an ordinary monopoly. This was for the reason that the State has been charged with the duty to bear in mind the principles of “common good” being secured by the “distribution of scarce resources”. It was submitted in the said case that coal, being a mineral of the highest importance in the economic life of the nation, its equitable distribution so as to secure the common good, which is the Directive contained in Article 39(b), led to the creation of a statutorily mandated monopoly through the Nationalisation Act. Therefore, it could be wholly inconceivable that the Competition Act would still be applicable to the appellant therein. Holding that the Competition Act applied to the appellant therein and all public sector companies except where the sovereign function of the government may be involved, this Court observed in paragraph 100 as under: “100. The expression “common good” in Article 39(b) in a Benthamite sense involves achieving the highest good of the maximum number of people. The meaning of the words “common good” may depend upon the times, the felt necessities, the direction that the Nation wishes to take in the future, the socio-economic condition of the different classes, the legal and fundamental rights and also the Directive Principles themselves. As far as the time dictated content of common good goes, it simply means that “economics” itself not being bound in chains, but it is a dynamic concept. The attainment of common good would be dependent on the appreciation and understanding of a generation as to how economic common good is best achieved. The debate between the advantages and disadvantages of pursuing the policy of State [2024] 11 S.C.R. 237 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. intervention in economic policy which emasculates private enterprise and competition has almost reached its end. The advantages of a fearlessly competitive economy have been realised by the Nation. There is a backdrop to it. In the year 1991, the Nation was in a manner of speaking compelled to revisit its economic policy having regard to the precarious condition of its foreign exchange reserves.