With the passage of time, the validity of historical considerations on which Section 87-B is founded will wear out and the continuance of the said section in the Code of Civil Procedure may later be open to serious challenge.” (Emphasis supplied) 82. Similarly in H.H. Shri Swamiji of Shri Amar Mutt v. Commr., Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Deptt., reported in (1979) 4 SCC 642, this Court was called upon to determine the constitutionality of application of the Madras Hindu Religious Charitable Endowments Act to South Kanara District. This Court observed that even after the passage of 23 years, no serious attempts were made to remove the inequality that was being caused in the South Kanara District by the 106 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports said Act. However, this Court while refraining itself from declaring the law as inapplicable, called upon the legislature look into the issue in the hope that it would act promptly, lest the said Act suffer a serious and successful challenge in the not-so-distant future. The relevant observations read as under: - “31. But that is how the matter stands today. Twenty-three years have gone by since the States Reorganisation Act was passed but unhappily, no serious effort has been made by the State Legislature to introduce any legislation — apart from two abortive attempts in 1963 and 1977 — to remove the inequality between the temples and Mutts situated in the South Kanara Disrict and those situated in other areas of Karnataka. Inequality is so clearly writ large on the face of the impugned statute in its application to the district of South Kanara only, that it is perilously near the periphery of unconstitutionality. We have restrained ourselves from declaring the law as inapplicable to the district of South Kanara from today but we would like to make it clear that if the Karnataka Legislature does not act promptly and remove the inequality arising out of the application of the Madras Act of 1951 to the district of South Kanara only, the Act will have to suffer a serious and successful challenge in the not distant future. We do hope that the Government of Karnataka will act promptly and move an appropriate legislation, say, within a year or so. A comprehensive legislation which will apply to all temples and Mutts in Karnataka, which are equally situated in the context of the levy of fee, may perhaps afford a satisfactory solution to the problem. This, however, is a tentative view-point because we have not investigated whether the Madras Act of 1951, particularly Section 76(1) thereof, is a piece of hostile legislation of the kind that would involve the violation of Article 14. Facts in regard thereto may have to be explored, if and when occasion arises." (Emphasis supplied) 83. In view of the decisions referred to above, we may only say that since the respondents herein are already in seisin of the anomaly in computation of royalty and the policy is being reconsidered on [2024] 12 S.C.R.