(c) Even if it is assumed that the Collector recommended the release of the land, it would not bind the State Government. After due inspection, the High-Powered Committee had determined that the construction was unauthorized and not in conformity with the Developmental Plan. The State [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2285 Haryana Urban Development Authority v. Abhishek Gupta etc. Government, therefore, committed no error on disagreeing with the Collector and proceeding with the acquisition, as buttressed by this Court’s decision in Anand Buttons Ltd. v. State of Haryana.1 (d) The land belonging to Maharaja Harinder Singh ‘Khalaf’ Maharaja Varinder Singh had also been subsequently acquired through the notification dated 17.05.2007. It could not be acquired earlier on account of pending public interest litigations. It is thus incorrect to assert that the State Government discriminated against the Respondents by releasing similarly placed lands. In any case, the Respondents had also not demonstrated that this land was similarly placed as their own land. Furthermore, the acquisition proceedings do not violate the provisions of the Punjab Periphery Act. 10. Per contra, Mr. Rajive Bhalla, Dr. Bharat Bhushan Parsoon, and Mr. Sanjeev Sharma, Learned Senior Counsels representing the Respondents, have supported the impugned judgement by arguing that: (a) The burden of proving that the constructions were not supported by the building plan lies on the Appellant. Since the same has not been proved, there cannot be any adverse presumption against the legality of the construction. In any case, as confirmed by the dated 05.04.1994 of the ADJ, the Appellant was not obligated to seek any permission and hence, non-submission of the building plan is not material. (b) There is a flagrant violation of Section 5A as the Respondents’ objections have not been considered in accordance with law. Since Section 5A of the 1894 Act provides a valuable safeguard to an expropriated land owner, it warrants mandatory compliance and cannot be treated as an empty formality. (c) Furthermore, doubt can be cast on the thoroughness of the inspection conducted by the High-Powered Committee constituted by the State Government, given that a vast tract of land is claimed to have been inspected in a very short duration. 1 (2005) 9 SCC 164. 2286 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Additionally, the composition of the committee formed for the inspection indicates a complete abdication of power by the State government. (d) Even if the land of Maharaja Harinder Singh ‘Khalaf’ Maharaja Varinder Singh was re-acquired, it was done at a rate prevalent in 2007, which was higher in comparison to 1999. Denying the higher rate to the Respondents amounts to arbitrary and discriminatory conduct. (e) In any case, there is a significant subsequent development, as during the pendency of the proceedings, the State of Haryana has agreed on releasing the subject land, provided that the Respondents provide a part of the land for basic amenities free of cost and use the remaining for charitable purposes. Since the Respondents have consented to put their land to such conditional use, this Court should give effect to such a conscionable agreement between the parties and may, therefore, dismiss the instant appeals in light thereof.