[2024] 3 S.C.R. 438 : 2024 INSC 205 Rakesh Ranjan Shrivastava v. The State of Jharkhand & Anr. (Criminal Appeal No. 741 of 2024) 15 March 2024 [Abhay S. Oka* and Ujjal Bhuyan, JJ.] Issue for Consideration Whether the provision of sub-section (1) of s.143A, Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881, which provides for the grant of interim compensation, is directory or mandatory. If it is held to be a directory provision, what are factors to be considered while exercising powers under sub-section (1) of Section 143A of the N.I. Act. Headnotes Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881 – s.143A(1) – Grant of interim compensation – Directory or mandatory: Held: Power under sub-section (1) of s.143A is discretionary and not mandatory – Sub-section (1) of s.143A provides for passing a drastic for payment of interim compensation against the accused in a complaint u/s.138, even before any adjudication is made on the guilt of the accused – The power can be exercised at the threshold even before the evidence is recorded – If the word ‘may’ is interpreted as ‘shall’, it will have drastic consequences as in every complaint u/s.138, the accused will have to pay interim compensation up to 20 per cent of the cheque amount – Such an interpretation will be unjust and contrary to the well-settled concept of fairness and justice – If such an interpretation is made, the provision may expose itself to the vice of manifest arbitrariness and can be held to be violative of Article 14 of the Constitution – Considering the drastic consequences of exercising the power u/s.143A before the finding of the guilt is recorded in the trial, the word “may” used in the provision cannot be construed as “shall” - In the present case, the Trial Court mechanically passed the of deposit of Rs.10,00,000/- without considering the issue of prima facie case and other relevant factors – It is true that the sum of Rs.10,00,000/- represents less than 5 per cent of the cheque amount, but the direction was issued to pay the amount without application of mind – Even the High Court did not apply its mind – Impugned * Author [2024] 3 S.C.R. 439 Rakesh Ranjan Shrivastava v. The State of Jharkhand & Anr. s set aside – Trial Court to consider the application for grant of interim compensation afresh. [Paras 19, 14, 17 and 18] Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881 – s.143A(1) – Exercise of powers under – Factors to be considered – While deciding the prayer made u/s.143A, the Court must record brief reasons indicating consideration of all relevant factors – Broad parameters for exercising the discretion u/s.143A: Held: The Court will have to prima facie evaluate the merits of the case made out by the complainant and the merits of the defence pleaded by the accused in the reply to the application – The presumption u/s.139 of the N.I. Act, by itself, is no ground to direct the payment of interim compensation as the presumption is rebuttable – The financial distress of the accused can also be a consideration – A direction to pay interim compensation can be issued, only if the complainant makes out a prima facie case – If the defence of the accused is found to be prima facie plausible, the Court may exercise discretion in refusing to grant interim compensation – If the Court concludes that a case is made out to grant interim compensation, it will also have to apply its mind to the quantum of interim compensation to be granted – While doing so, it will have to consider several factors such as the nature of the transaction, the relationship, if any, between the accused and the complainant, etc.