The NCLT, therefore, observed that an interim restraining the company and respondent Nos. 2 to 4 from either disposing of or creating encumbrances over the assets of the company would not affect either of the parties, pending disposal of the main petition, and accordingly granted an interim to that effect. [2024] 9 S.C.R. 243 Chalasani Udaya Shankar and others v. M/s. Lexus Technologies Pvt. Ltd. and other 10. This being the tone and tenor of the NCLT’s interim , the final dated 21.08.2021 passed by the NCLT, dismissing the Company Petition, makes for an interesting reading. Be it noted that the interim was passed by the Member (Judicial) of the NCLT and the final came to be passed over two years later by its Acting President. Significantly, no reference whatsoever was made to the 46-page interim in the body of the final . It is as if the Acting President of the NCLT was completely oblivious of what had transpired in the matter earlier, though a passing reference was made by him to an interim passed on 22.10.2019, impleading three more respondents in the Company Petition. 11. Respondent Nos. 1 and 2 again filed counters in the main Company Petition essentially replicating the stands taken by them in their earlier counters. The appellants also filed their rejoinder thereto along with several documents. Having referred to the facts, as set out in the Company Petition, the Acting President of the NCLT noted that separate counters had been filed by respondent Nos. 1 and 2, on the one hand, and by the newly impleaded respondent Nos. 8 to 10, who claimed independent rights in the same shareholding. Respondent Nos. 3 and 4 had filed Memos adopting the counter filed by the company, respondent No.1. Perusal of the dated 21.08.2021 reflects that the Acting President of the NCLT extracted the gist of the pleadings of the parties and went on to reproduce the caselaw cited by them at great length. His actual findings commence from paragraph 9 at page 60 of his 67-page . The points that fell for consideration were set out by him in paragraph 9.1, which reads as under: ‘(1) Whether the Petition filed is well within the time. (2) Whether purported transfer of shares is in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act and in accordance with clauses of the Articles of Association. (3) Whether the amount purportedly paid should be treated as consideration to the shareholders of the Company, by the Petitioners. (4) Whether the share certificates purportedly issued to the Petitioners are genuine. (5) Whether any relief can be granted to the Petitioners or whether the petition is maintainable.’ 244 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 12. On the issue of limitation in point No.1, the Acting President baldly summed up that filing of the petition by the appellants was an afterthought and, therefore, the question of limitation did not arise, as the petition was not filed within the limitation period of three years. This cryptic approach in para 9.2 was not in keeping with the observation of the Member (Judicial) of the NCLT in the interim that limitation, being a mixed question of law and fact, required to be examined fully.