It was known to accused persons that offence was to be registered against them. The certified copy discloses that Shama was found while traveling between Gondia to Raipur without ticket. As per practices of Railway he was asked to pay Rs. 50/- but it is said that he denied and therefore, he was prosecuted. We have to see firstly Shama was dreadful criminal who will not be so easily caught by Railway police accordingly if he would have been by chance caught, he will choose to pay Rs. 50/- From the certified copy it appears that he was convicted on admission and sentenced to pay a fine of Rs. 200/- Defence has not arranged to examine the railway employee who has charged sheeted the alleged Shama @ Kalya. This record produced by defence cannot 748 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports be taken to be pertaining to Shama @ Kalya the record seems to have been prepared so that there should be some record about Shama @ Kalya. The record seems to have been prepared so that there should be some record about Shama @ Kalya being alive. It is difficult to believe that Shama would never meet his children wife and mother. There was no reasons for Shama to avoid his arrest, because he was convicted in 11 Criminal cases. For this reason, I have no hesitation to reject the theory of defence about Shama @ Kalya having fled away from the custody of Police.” 39. Despite such consideration by the Trial Court on the aforesaid evidence based on suppositions and conjectures, the High Court in the impugned observed that the defence, for reasons best known and best advice they must have been rendered chosen to be happy and satisfied with the defence of cross-examination and they did not deem it appropriate to take recourse to any defence whatsoever. 40. The legally and factually incorrect approach of the High Court is evident from paragraphs 61 and 62 of the impugned common . They read thus: - “61. For the accused persons at least to create a doubt in the evidence brought by the prosecution in the mind of the Court, and some belief in favour of accused, that the accused have some defence and the prosecution story is debatable, defence could have chosen to lead any evidence including their own testimonies of denial, stating that on particular days and dates, on which the prosecution witnesses claim to have been brought to the Detective Branch Room of the Police Station, were not at all also called or detained or kept under the domain of police or were ill-treated. 62. The defence has, for the reasons best known and best advice they must have been rendered, chosen to be happy and satisfied with the device of cross-examination. They did not deem it appropriate to take recourse to any defence evidence, whatsoever.” [2024] 9 S.C.R. 749 Manik & Ors. v. The State of Maharashtra 41. Thus, it is evident that the High Court failed even to take note of the fact that such a document was available before the trial Court, but the trial Court appreciated the same only in the manner mentioned above.