Thus, Section 15 sub-section (2) of the POCSO would cover both the actual transmission, propagation, display or distribution of any child pornography as-well as the facilitation of any of the abovementioned acts. 90. On the other hand, the mens rea which is required to constitute an offence under Section 15(1) is the intent to share or transmit a pornographic material involving a child, and the said intention is 222 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports to be gathered or gauged from the actus reus itself i.e., by culling out the manner in which there was an omission to delete, destroy or report such a material or the reason behind the same. This is evinced from the construction of the expression “but fails to delete or destroy or report the same to the designated authority, as may be prescribed, with an intention to share or transmit child pornography” which makes it clear that the scope of discerning the intent to share or transmit has been both limited AND tied to only the omission to delete, destroy or report i.e., the actus reus. The expression “with an intention to share or transmit ” cannot be singled out and construed devoid of its context. Thus, it is the manner in which along with the attending circumstances attributable to the failure to delete, destroy or report that must sufficiently be indicative of the intent to share or transmit any material. 91. In Section 15 sub-section (1) of the POCSO the legislature by qualifying and linking the expression “intent to share or transmit ” to the omission to delete, destroy or report, has in its wisdom made the intention or mens rea under the said provision a matter of inference, to be ascertained from the actus reus itself. The degree of probability for inferring such intention would largely depend upon the manner in which the actus reus i.e., how the omission took place. It is for the courts to ascertain whether the manner in which the material was found in storage or possession, the attending circumstances to the omission and the conduct of the person accused sufficiently refutes or displaces the inference of an intention to share or transmit or not. 92. The underlying reason behind tying the inference of intention to the omission alone is because the legislature was alive to the practical difficulty that exists in establishing an intention to share or transmit any child pornographic material from just the mere possession of such material. In offences pertaining to or involving the possession of any contraband, it is too uphill a task for the courts to peer through and look into the mind of the person accused and then cull out the intention of that person behind possessing or storing such material. Thus, in such cases instead of directly establishing the intention from the mental state of the person accused, it is established indirectly by inferring it from the manner in which the contraband was found to have been stored or in possession.