Sub-classification has no bearing on the power of inclusion and exclusion. Potential political tinkering cannot obviate the present constitutional need for acknowledging and remedying inter-se inequality among the Scheduled Castes; 42 Chinnaiah (supra) [Justice Hegde, 22] relying on NM Thomas (supra) [Justice Iyer, 135] 1356 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports d. Article 342A of the Constitution inserted by the Constitution (One Hundred and Second Amendment) Act 2018 empowers the President to notify socially and educationally backward classes. This Article is pari materia to Article 341 and Article 342. Sub-classification is permissible for Schedule Castes because Indra Sawhney (supra) permits sub-classification for the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes and after the inclusion of Article 342A, they are at par with the Scheduled Castes; and e. Chinnaiah (supra) is not in line with empirical data collected by the State. According to the view of Justice Reddy in Indra Sawhney (supra),43 several castes or tribes within the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes are not similarly situated. 22. Mr Shekhar Naphade, senior counsel appearing on behalf of the State of Tamil Nadu submitted that: a. Chinnaiah (supra) does not provide connecting links between Article 341 and subclassification. The plain meaning of Article 341 does not limit the power of the State legislature to classify the listed Scheduled Castes; and b. Classification based on inter-se backwardness is in pursuance of Article 14. This inter-se backwardness is not among individuals but among groups in the Scheduled Castes. Indra Sawhney (supra) is applicable to sub-classification of the Scheduled Castes. 23. Mr Gopal Sankaranarayanan, senior counsel submitted on behalf of Intervenor Madiga Jana Seva Samiti that Scheduled Castes or Tribes are not castes because Article 366(24) uses “deemed”. Article 16(2) uses “only”; thus, a Scheduled Caste, identified due to historic untouchability, is not “caste” under Articles 15(1) and16(2). 24. Mr KK Venugopal, learned senior counsel for the Petitioner Madiga Reservation Porata Samithi submitted that Article 14 does not only mandate equal treatment to all but also bars discrimination by equal treatment of unequals. He submitted that Article 38(2) entitles those who are unequal in status to special treatment to bring them on the same plane. Article 341 has to be read along with Article 38(2). 43 Relied on Indra Sawhney (supra) [Justice Reddy, 795]. [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1357 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. 25. Mr R Venkataramani, Attorney General of India submitted that Articles 14 to 16 and Articles 341 and 342 operate in different fields. Mere designation under Article 341 does not entail homogeneity. 26. Mr Tushar Mehta, Solicitor General of India submitted that equality is not a static concept. It has evolved from the of this Court in Champakam Dorairajan (supra), to Indra Sawhney (supra). Sub- classification is an issue of rationalising the affirmative action regime. 27. Mr Nidhesh Gupta, Senior Counsel submitted that adequate representation is a matter within the subjective satisfaction of the state, subject to backwardness and inadequacy of representation. Courts cannot scrutinize underlying data to reach that satisfaction of the state.