9. At para 15 of the , the trial Court concluded as below: - “…In view of conflicting nature of evidence of these eye witnesses, it is clear that their evidence is not consistent with the prosecution case and it has a different version with reference to each witness. Hence a serious doubt arises as to the truthfulness of the prosecution.” 10. The trial Court discussed evidence of ASI, Tikota Police Station(PW-18), wherein he admitted that police visited the place of incident in the night only. It was also noted that complainant(PW-1) admitted that the complaint was made after the police had visited the place of incident. 11. PW-2 stated in his cross examination that the police came to the village at about 10 or 11 am and recorded his statement at the police station at that time only i.e. at 12 o’ clock. Taking this into consideration, the trial Court recorded a categoric finding that complaint(Exhibit P-1) was a post-investigation document and as such, it was hit by Section 162 CrPC and did not have any evidentiary worth. This conclusion was recorded in Para 17 of the which is extracted hereinbelow for the sake of ready reference: - [2024] 5 S.C.R. 183 Babu Sahebagouda Rudragoudar and Others v. State of Karnataka “According to the cross – examination of P.W.2, the police came to the village at about 10 or 11 a.m. He called by the police and they went to the place and the police inspected the dead body. P.W.2 is very much specific that they went to the place along with the police at 11p.m. and thereafter went to the police station at 12 O’ clock in the night. According to P.W.2, the police have recorded his statement in the police station at that time only i.e., at 12 O clock. This goes to show that the police were aware of the offence at 11.00 p.m. on 19.09.2001. P.W.6., who claims to be an eye witness, returned to the house at about 5-00 or 6-00 p.m. and informed the incident to the children of his uncle viz., he informed Pargouda, Shankargouda and Chanagouda. But, however, P.W.1 was hiding near the bushes at his land and if what P.W.6 says is true, then in that case, P.W.1 was in the house at 5-00 or 6-00 pm only. Nothing prevented P.W.1 to rush immediately to the police station which was 10 Kms away and to file the complaint. Even P.W.6 further admits that he told the incident to these persons and they had told him that they will go to the police station and it was 6-00 or 7-00 p.m., at the time. Even if that is the case, P.W.1 has to offer explanation as to why he filed the complaint at 4.00 a.m. When the admissions of this witness are taken into account, the police were aware of the murder at about 11 p.m. in the night and they had even visited the place of offence. Nothing prevented the police who visited the place of offence to record the statement of P.W.1 at his house and the delay for six hours as per the evidence of P.W.1 or as to the evidence of P.W.6, the delay of eight hours is not explained by the prosecution.