Further, if such a request for further extension is entertained, it would only serve to bring us to the position that the parties were at when the of this Court dated 18.01.2024 was passed. 146. In Kridhan Infrastructure Private Limited v. Venkatesan Sankaranarayan and Others reported in (2021) 6 SCC 94 the appellant had failed to fulfil its obligations under the Resolution Plan, including that of equity infusion, despite numerous opportunities 2150 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports granted over a period of 6 months. Therefore, the CoC voted by a majority to liquidate the corporate debtor as a result of failure to implement the resolution plan. The NCLT had allowed the liquidation to proceed and the NCLAT had upheld the same. On an appeal before this Court, a statement was made by the successful resolution applicant therein that an amount of Rs. 50 Crore would be deposited on or before 10.01.2021. Bearing in mind that liquidation under the IBC is a matter of last resort, such an opportunity was granted. The time for making the said deposit was further extended until 25.02.2021. However, no payment was made. By underscoring that time is a crucial facet of the scheme under the IBC, this Court held that there was a failure on part of the resolution applicant to implement the resolution plan and it was ed that the liquidation proceedings against the corporate debtor be revived. The relevant observations are reproduced hereinbelow: “11. The appellant has been unable to raise the funds. The fact of the matter, as it emerges from Mr Viswanathan’s submissions, is that the appellant will be unable to raise funds from the term lenders who are insisting that the status of the Company should change from a company under liquidation to an active status. The of liquidation has not been set aside. Ultimately, what the request of the appellant reduces itself to, is that it would raise funds on a mortgage of the assets of the Company and unless the Company is brought out of liquidation, it would not be in a position to raise the funds. This is unacceptable. At this stage, the of liquidation has only been stayed, but a final view was, thus, to be taken by this Court. Sufficient opportunities were granted to the appellant earlier during the pendency of the proceedings both before the NCLT and NCLAT. The s of the NCLT and Nclat make it abundantly clear that despite the grant of sufficient time, the appellant has not been able to comply with the terms of the resolution plan. Since 9-10-2020, despite the passage of almost five months, the appellant has not been able to deposit an amount of Rs 50 crores. Time is a crucial facet of the scheme under IBC [Innoventive Industries Ltd. v. ICICI Bank, (2018) 1 SCC 407, paras 12-16 : (2018) 1 SCC (Civ) 356] . To allow such proceedings to [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2151 State Bank of India & Ors. v. The Consortium of Mr. Murari Lal Jalan and Mr. Florian Fritsch & Anr.