● The original program, which is political party and candidate agnostic, is ported on to the microcontroller of the EVM21 during the manufacturing at the factory. This process is done way before the elections and it is impossible to know the serial number of any candidate in advance. Thus, it is not possible to pre-program the EVM in a spurious manner. 34. After the symbol loading process is completed, all or 100% of the EVMs, including the VVPATs, are checked by casting one vote by pressing each candidate button, including NOTA. A higher mock poll is also conducted in 5% randomly selected units wherein 1000 votes are cast, and the electronic result is tallied with the VVPAT slip count. The candidates or their representatives are also allowed to choose the 5% EVMs and conduct a mock poll. Once the symbol loading process or the candidate setting is completed, and the mock polls are conducted, the ballot unit of the EVM is also sealed with the thread or plain paper seals. The symbol loaded VVPATs are sealed with address tags. The paper seals and address tags bear the signatures of the representatives of the political parties/candidates. 35. Thus, it is clear that till the symbol loading into the VVPAT is done by using the symbol loading unit, the EVM is blank and has no data/ particulars of political parties or candidates. One cannot ascertain and know which button/key in the ballot unit will be allocated to a particular candidate or a political party. 36. It has been highlighted before us by the ECI that the symbol loading process conducted by using symbol loading unit in the VVPAT cannot be equated with the uploading of the software. A bitmap file comprising of the serial number, name of the candidate and the symbol allocated to the particular candidate is uploaded in the symbol loading process. The symbol loading process undertaken by using the symbol loading unit cannot alter or modify the programme/firmware in the VVPAT 21 The EVM, as earlier observed and we clarify here, means the ballot unit, the control unit and the VVPAT unit. 436 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports which has been burnt/loaded in the memory. The control unit and the ballot unit are not subjected to the symbol loading process and not touched. The burnt/loaded firmware in the control unit and the ballot unit is and remains candidate and political party agnostic. The control unit acts and functions as the calculator, computing the total votes cast on the basis of the number of times the key/button on the ballot unit are pressed, and the number of times a specific key/ button on the ballot unit is pressed. 37. On the polling date, one and a half hours before the start of polling, the presiding officer/polling officer takes out the EVMs and conducts a mock poll of 50 votes. The votes are counted electronically. The VVPAT paper slips are also counted and tallied with electronic votes. Each EVM unit is thereupon again sealed with a paper seal of a different colour.