Subsequently, it abandoned the application to pursue proceedings under the IBC. 72. On 15.10.2018, the respondent filed an application under Section 9 of the IBC for initiation of Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process against the appellant. The IBC proceedings initiated by the respondent under Section 9 were ultimately dismissed by this Court vide dated 15.07.2022 by way of which the of the NCLAT was upheld and the of the NCLT was set-aside. This Court took the view that the NCLT had committed a grave error of law by admitting the application of the respondent even though there was a pre-existing dispute between the parties. Placing reliance on the decision of this Court in Mobilox Innovations Private Limited v. Kirusa Software Private Limited reported in (2018) 1 SCC 353, this Court held that upon the occurrence of a pre-existing dispute regarding the alleged claims of the respondent against the appellant, the Section 9 application of the respondent as an ‘Operational Creditor’ could not have been entertained. 73. Upon rejection of the Section 9 application by this Court, the respondent filed a fresh application under Section 11(6) on 09.12.2022 before the High Court. The High Court allowed the application and proceeded to appoint the arbitrator vide the impugned . 178 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 74. An overview of the facts as discussed above indicates that the first application under Section 11(6) filed on 16.02.2018 was well within the prescribed limitation period of three years for filing such applications. However, even assuming that the second application under Section 11(6) is not barred by the principles underlying 23 Rule 1, the same was required to be filed within a period of three years from the expiry of one month from the date of receipt of the notice invoking arbitration by the appellant. This period of three years came to an end in August, 2019. The second application under Section 11(6) came to be filed by the respondent much later on 12.12.2022 and is clearly time-barred. 75. However, to save the second Section 11(6) application from being dismissed on account of being time-barred, the respondent has contended that it is entitled to invoke the benefit under Section 14 of the Limitation Act, 1963 to seek exclusion of the period spent by it in pursuing the proceedings under Section 9 of the IBC. The respondent has further submitted that even otherwise, this Court in exercise of its discretion available under Section 5 of the Limitation Act may condone the delay in filing the second 11(6) application before the High Court, as it was pursuing the insolvency proceedings in a bona fide manner and would be left remediless if the appointment of arbitrator by the High Court is set aside by this Court. 76. Section 14 of the Limitation Act provides for exclusion of time of proceeding bona fide in court without jurisdiction and is reproduced below: - “14. Exclusion of time of proceeding bona fide in court without jurisdiction.— (1) In computing the period of limitation for any suit the time during which the plaintiff has been prosecuting with due diligence another civil proceeding, whether in a court of first instance or of appeal or revision, against the defendant shall be excluded, where the proceeding relates to the same matter in issue and is prosecuted in good faith in a court which, from defect of jurisdiction or other cause of a like nature, is unable to entertain it.