1. 8. Similarly, the NCDRC also held that there was no negligence on part of the Respondents and concluded that the Appellant’s delay of one month in approaching the RIO was fatal for his son. Submissions & Analysis: 9. Learned Counsel for the Appellant vehemently contends that the NCDRC failed to consider that the SCDRC undertook a selective appreciation of evidence, completely disregarding the uncontroverted expert evidence provided by Dr. Gupta regarding the lapses in pre- operative and post-operative care provided by the Respondents. 10. Per Contra, Learned Counsel for the Respondents submits that both the NCDRC and the SCDRC have correctly placed reliance on the decision of the Medical Council to arrive at their conclusions regarding the absence of negligence on part of the Respondents. 11. This Court has heard the Learned Counsel for the parties and perused the record. 12. Upon perusal of the s of the NCDRC and the SCDRC, we find significant merit in the contention of the Learned Counsel for the Appellant. At this stage, it would be appropriate to refer to the findings of the DCDRC regarding the negligence of the Respondents. The operative paragraph(s) of the passed by the DCDRC read as under: “So, we are very much affirmed that diagnosis of Disha Eye Hospital regarding “traumatic cataract” was known to the O.P. No.1 before the operation. This O.P. No.l has admitted in the last portion, of para-23 of the written version by saying that ‘from medical point of view it is well established that management and rehabilitations of traumatic cataract, [2024] 2 S.C.R. 1069 Najrul Seikh v. Dr. Sumit Banerjee & Anr. specially in a child, is very difficult, unpredictable and any complication may happen at any moment and it cannot be ascertained before hand. Unfortunately this type of complication happened to the son of the complainant. If that be the position, why the doctor did not take any post-operative care of traumatic cataract. In this regard the expert doctor Anindya Gupta who is the RMO-cum-Clinical Tutor department of Ophthalmology, Burdwan Medical College and Hospital has specifically stated that “prior to operation skin test is done for determining any drug allergy if at all”. But no test of drug allergy was advised in the prescriptions. Apart from that expert doctor has stated that OT date was on 24.11.2006 but the medical card of the patient does not reflect the treatment prior to 24.11.2006 except urine test pending and there is nothing mention of next date of review after 24.11.2006. It has further stated normally a patient is checked on the next date of operation if not discharged earlier. The expert doctor has further stated that theoretically speaking any check after 72 hours of the operation is sufficient in a normal case during post-operative period but the card shows that the next date of checking is 1.12.2006 after (24.11.2006, date of OT). The expert doctor further stated that on 6.12.2006 the vision rating, is not normal. It is pertinent to point that the expert doctor has specifically stated that “as a doctor one should take care of all risk factor of the patient before performing the operation”.