2.5 Upon the conclusion of the investigation, a chargesheet was filed before the Court of the Chief Judicial Magistrate, Kawardha. Since the case was exclusively triable by the Sessions Court, the same came to be committed to the trial court. 2.6 Charges came to be filed by the trial court under Section 302 read with Section 34 of the IPC and in the alternate, Section 307 read with Section 34 of the IPC. The appellants pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried. 2.7 The prosecution examined 15 witnesses to bring home the guilt of the appellants. In their defence, the appellants denied the charges and stated that they had been falsely implicated owing to the agricultural land dispute. 2.8 At the conclusion of the trial, the trial court found that the prosecution had proved the case against the appellants and accordingly, convicted them under Section 302 and Section 307 read with Section 34 of the IPC and sentenced them to undergo imprisonment for life. 2.9 Being aggrieved thereby, the appellants preferred a Criminal Appeal before the High Court. The High Court vide the impugned and dismissed the Criminal Appeal and confirmed the of conviction and sentence awarded by the trial court. 3. Being aggrieved thereby, the present appeal. 4. We have heard Mr. Vikrant Narayan Vasudeva, learned Amicus Curiae, and Mr. Ravi Kumar Sharma, learned Deputy Advocate General appearing on behalf of the respondent-State of Chhattisgarh. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 527 Devendra Kumar & Ors. v. State of Chhattisgarh 5. Learned Amicus Curiae submits that it is an admitted fact that there has been a previous enmity between the family of the appellants and the family of the deceased. It is submitted that admittedly the appellants were in possession of the disputed land. However, the deceased was making an attempt to dispossess the appellants from the said land. It is submitted that one month prior to the date of the incident, the wife of the appellant No.1-Devendra Kumar lodged an FIR against the deceased with regard to forcible dispossession. It is, therefore, submitted that the appellants are entitled to be acquitted. 6. Learned Amicus Curiae, in the alternative, submitted that the possibility of the deceased trying to dispossess the appellants from the land in question and the appellants committing the crime without premeditation in a sudden fight in the heat of passion upon a sudden quarrel cannot be denied. It is, therefore, submitted that the offence, at the most, would fall under Part I or Part II of Section 304 IPC. 7. Learned counsel for the respondent-State, on the contrary, submits that both the learned trial court as well as the High Court, on correct appreciation of the evidence, have convicted the appellants for the offences punishable under Section 302 of the IPC. It is, therefore, submitted that no interference would be warranted. 8. It is further submitted that the present case is a case of direct evidence wherein a number of eyewitnesses have supported the prosecution version. 9. With the assistance of the learned counsel for the parties, we have perused the evidence placed on record.