17. Section 9 which enunciates the functions of the Board, is relevant to the constitutional challenge before us. The functions of the Board are wide-ranging and relate to inter alia prescribing the course material, granting degrees or diplomas, conducting examinations, recognizing institutions to conduct exams, conducting research and training, and other incidental functions. These functions are exercised at various levels of education detailed above – Tahtania, Fauquania, Munshi, Maulvi, Alim, Kamil, Fazil, and other courses. The provision reads thus: 16 “Inspector” has been defined in S.2(e) of the Act as: “(e) ‘‘Inspector’’ means the inspector, Arabic Madarsas, Uttar Pradesh and includes an officer authorised by the State Government to perform all or any of the functions of the inspector under this Act” 382 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “9. Functions of the Board. — Subject to the other provisions of this Act the Board shall have the following functions, namely: — (a) to prescribe course of instructions, textbooks, other books and instructional material, if any, for Tahtania, Fauquania, Munshi, Maulavi, Alim, Kamil, Fazil and other courses; (b) prescribe the course books, other books and instruction material of courses of Arbi, Urdu and Pharsi for classes up to High School and Intermediate standard in accordance with the course determined there for by the Board of High School and Intermediate Education; (c) to prepare manuscript of the course books, other books and instruction material referred to in clause (b) by excluding the matters therein wholly or partially or otherwise and to publish them; (d) prescribe standard for the appointment of Urdu translators in the various offices of the State and ensure through the appointing authority necessary action with respect to filling up of the vacant posts; (e) to grant Degrees, Diplomas, Certificates or other academic distinctions to persons, who— (i) have pursued a course of study in an institution admitted to the privileges or recognition by the Board; (ii) have studied privately under conditions laid down in the regulations and have passed an examination of the Board under like conditions; (f) to conduct examinations of the Munshi, Maulavi, Alim and of Kamil and Fazil courses; (g) to recognize institutions for the purposes of its examination; (h) to admit candidates to its examination; [2024] 11 S.C.R. 383 Anjum Kadari & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. (i) to demand and receive such fee as may be prescribed in the regulations; (j) to publish or withhold publication of the result of its examinations wholly or in part; (k) to co-operate with other authorities in such a manner and for such purposes as the Board may determine; (l) to call for reports from the Director on the condition of recognised institutions or of institutions applying for recognition; (m) to submit to the State Government its views on any matter with which it is concerned; (n) to see the schedules of new demands proposed to be included in the budget relating to institutions recognised by it and to submit if it thinks fit its views thereon for the consideration of the State Government; (o) to do all such other acts and things as may be requisite in to further the objects of the Board as a body constituted for regulating and supervising Madarsa-Education up to Fazil; (p) to provide for research or training in any branch of Madarsa-Education viz, Darul Uloom Nav Uloom, Lucknow, Madarsa Babul lim, Mubarakpur, Azamgarh, Darul Uloom Devband, Saharanpur, Oriental College Rampur and any other institution which the State Government may notify time to time.