Therefore, supervision was provided at the cost of distilleries and the licencees of the distilleries will have to bear the cost of maintenance of such supervision. The same would squarely fall within the regulatory powers for framing Rules with a view to see that the provisions of the aforesaid Act are not stifled or tinkered with by such licencee distilleries. 9.7.2 It was observed that the expression “commercial” would fall in the same category as denatured spirit, meaning thereby those spirits which are not fit for human consumption. They would not cover potable spirits even assuming that they are commercial spirits. That, the expression “other commercial spirits” as contemplated by the Rule are those spirits which are unfit for human consumption and they do not cover potable liquor which cannot fall in line with denatured spirit. Thus, it was observed that the expression “or any other commercial [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2091 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons spirit” must mean those spirits which fall in the category of spirits unfit for human consumption like denatured spirits which are used for “industrial purposes” or any other purpose other than for human consumption. It was held that Rule 9 of the aforesaid Rule would apply to only those distilleries which were licenced solely and wholly for the purpose of manufacturing either denatured spirit or any other commercial spirit unfit for human consumption but would not include those distilleries which are licenced for manufacturing along with denatured spirit or other industrial spirits unfit for human consumption, also potable liquor which is fit for human consumption. Hence, it was observed that the appellant therein, who had composite and multiple licences to manufacture potable liquor, was outside the sweep of second part of Rule 9 of the aforesaid Rules. That to such distilleries the first part of the Rule may apply wherein the State will have to bear the cost of providing supervisors and establishments for that purpose but the cost of such establishment cannot be foisted on such distilleries. Bihar Distillery: 9.8 In Bihar Distillery, narrating the history with regard to the legislations on rectified spirit and in the context of the IDRA, and the incorporation of Item 26 in the First Schedule of the said Act which deals with “Fermentation Industries”: (i) Alcohol, (ii) other products of “Fermentation Industries”, this Court, speaking through Jeevan Reddy, J., noted that the decision in Synthetics and Chemicals (7J) called for demarcation of the spheres of the Union and the States, particularly in the matter of alcoholic liquors. 9.8.1 This Court observed that insofar as “intoxicating liquors”/potable liquors are concerned, it is the exclusive province of the States. But for manufacturing “intoxicating liquors”, or for manufacturing “industrial alcohol”, as the case may be, one must have to manufacture or purchase alcohol. It is only thereafter that the alcohol is either converted into “industrial alcohol” (by denaturing it) or into “potable liquors” by 2092 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports reducing the strength of alcohol (which is normally of 95% purity or above).