When such a strong suspicion is there, in the light of the statements made by the other witnesses under Section 161, Cr.PC, the concurrent finding resulted in dismissal of application for discharge filed by the appellant invites no interference, according to the learned Additional Advocate General. 11. For appreciating the aforesaid contentions, we are of the considered view that it is only appropriate to refer to the position of law with respect to the scope of exercise of power under Section 227, Cr.PC, as also the ingredients to attract Section 120B, IPC. Section 227, Cr.PC, reads thus: 1164 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “227. Discharge.—If, upon consideration of the record of the case and the documents submitted therewith, and after hearing the submissions of the accused and the prosecution in this behalf, the Judge considers that there is not sufficient ground for proceeding against the accused, he shall discharge the accused and record his reasons for so doing.” 12. We have already considered the meaning of the expression “the record of the case and the documents submitted therewith” relying on the decision in Debendra Nath Padhi’s case (supra) only to re-assure as to what are the materials falling under the said expression and thus, available for consideration of an application filed for discharge under Section 227, Cr.PC. In the light of the same, there cannot be any doubt with respect to the position that at the stage of consideration of such an application for discharge, defence case or material, if produced at all by the accused, cannot be looked at all. Once “the record of the case and the documents submitted therewith” are before the Court they alone can be looked into for considering the application for discharge and thereafter if it considers that there is no sufficient ground for proceeding against the accused concerned then he shall be discharged after recording reasons therefor. In that regard, it is only appropriate to consider the authorities dealing with the question as to what exactly is the scope of consideration and what should be the manner of consideration while exercising such power. 13. The decision in Yogesh alias Sachin Jagadish Joshi v. State of Maharashtra2 this Court held that the words “not sufficient ground for proceeding against the accused” appearing in Section 227, Cr.PC, postulate exercise of judicial mind on the part of the Judge to the facts of the case revealed from the materials brought on record by the prosecution in to determine whether a case for trial has been made out. In the decision in State of Tamil Nadu v. N Suresh Rajan & Ors.3 this Court held that at a stage of consideration of an application for discharge, the Court has to proceed with an assumption that the materials brought on record by the prosecution are true, and 2 [2008] 6 SCR 1116 : AIR 2008 SC 2991 3 [2014] 1 SCR 135 : (2014) 11 SCC 709 [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1165 Ram Prakash Chadha v. The State of Uttar Pradesh evaluate the materials to find out whether the facts taken at their face value disclose the existence of the ingredients constituting the offence.