The High Court directed that the officials present in the court, the Secretary (Finance) and the Special Secretary (Finance) be taken into custody and produced before the Court on the next day for framing of charges. Further, the Court issued bailable warrants against the Chief Secretary and the Additional Chief Secretary (Finance) to ensure their presence before the Court on the next day. 226 [2024] 1 S.C.R. DIGITAL SUPREME COURT REPORTS 21. The above s dated 4 April 2023 and 19 April 2023 have been challenged by the State of Uttar Pradesh by the present appeal. By an interim dated 20 April 2023, this Court stayed the operation of the Impugned s and the officials of the Government of Uttar Pradesh, who were taken into custody were directed to be released. This Court directed: “4 Till the next date of listing, there shall be a stay” of the operation of the s of the Division Bench of the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad dated 4 April 2023 and 19 April 2023. 5 The officers of the Government of Uttar Pradesh, who have been taken into custody, shall be released forthwith 6 The Registrar (Judicial) of this Court shall communicate the of this Court both telephonically and on the email to the Registrar General of the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad for immediate compliance.” 22. We have heard Mr Tushar Mehta, Solicitor General with Mr K.M. Natraj, Additional Solicitor General appearing on behalf of the Union of India, Mr Nishit Agrawal, counsel appearing on behalf of the Association of Retired Supreme Court and High Court Judges at Allahabad and Ms Preetika Dwivedi, counsel appearing on behalf of the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad on the administrative side. 23. Having heard the rival submissions advanced by the parties and examined the record, the following broad points of law arise for our consideration: (i) Whether the High Court had the power to direct the State Government to notify Rules proposed by the Chief Justice pertaining to post-retiral benefits for former Judges of the High Court; (ii) Whether the power of criminal contempt could be invoked by the High Court against officials of the Government of Uttar Pradesh on the ground that the application for recall was ‘contemptuous’; and (iii) The broad guidelines that must guide courts when they direct the presence of government officials before the court. [2024] 1 S.C.R. 227 THE STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. v. ASSOCIATION OF RETIRED SUPREME COURT AND HIGH COURT JUDGES AT ALLAHABAD & ORS II. The High Court did not have the power to direct the notification of the Rules proposed by the Chief Justice 24. The preamble to the Rules proposed by the Chief Justice expressly states that the Rules have been made pursuant to Article 229 of the Constitution. Article 229 pertains to ‘officers and servants’ of the High Courts. Article 229(2) provides that the conditions of service of officers and servants of the High Court shall be as may be prescribed by rules made by the Chief Justice of the High Court or any other Judge or officer authorized by the Chief Justice for the purpose.