The following crucial findings of the Division Bench are important: [2024] 4 S.C.R. 205 Krishnadatt Awasthy v. State of Madhya Pradesh & Ors. “…. In view of the aforesaid, we are of the considered opinion that though it was imperative on the part of appellants to implead the affected parties, yet as the affected parties had been given full opportunity from all aspects by the revisional forum as well as by the learned single Judge, we do not think it apt and apposite to quash the and remand the matter to the Collector to re- adjudicate singularly on the ground that the appellants herein should have been impleaded as parties and that the matter should be reheard. The said exercise in the peculiar facts and circumstances of the case is unwarranted.” 30. Ultimately, the Division Bench though held that it was imperative on the part of Respondent No.4 to implead the affected parties, however, since the affected parties had been given full opportunity before the revisional authority and the learned Single Judge, thought it fit not to interfere. Thereafter, it examined the issue as to whether the selection was vitiated because of the participation of the relatives. On this aspect, it extracted the findings of the learned Single Judge and after relying on A.K. Kraipak (supra) and other cases in the context of bias upheld the of the learned Single Judge. It appears that even during the pendency of the writ appeal, the appellants continued to work. Appeal in this Court: 31. Challenging the of the Division Bench dated 15.12.2008, special leave petitions were filed and on 19.01.2009, while issuing notice, this Court granted status quo in the matter. Thereafter, leave was granted on 12.05.2011 and the ad-interim s granted earlier were made absolute till the disposal of the appeals. Contentions of the parties:- 32. Before us, Mr. Neeraj Shekhar, learned counsel for the appellants has reiterated the contentions raised in the courts below on the issue of violation of natural justice and also about the factum of the committee members not influencing the selection. Reliance is placed on Daffodills Pharmaceuticals Limited and Another vs. State of Uttar Pradesh and Another, 2019:INSC:1366 = (2020) 18 SCC 550 and Javid Rasool Bhat and Others vs. State of Jammu and Kashmir and Others, (1984) 2 SCC 631. Learned counsel for 206 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the appellants has also sought to distinguish A.K. Kraipak (supra) and S. K. Sharma (supra). He also relied upon Chairman, State Bank of India and Another vs. M.J. James, 2021:INSC:732 = (2022) 2 SCC 301 to highlight the distinction between cases of “no opportunity at all” and “adequate opportunity”. Ultimately, it is pleaded that the appellants have been working for the last 25 years and that one of the appellants has, in fact, retired while others are on the verge of retirement. A chart has been filed to show that some of the appellants have received lesser marks than the complainant as well as the parties who seek to implead themselves here, which is set out hereinbelow.