590/OFBOL/A/I dated 13.01.2003 In connection with counting of Seniority in Annexure-A trades of SRO 185/1994 in the Industrial Establishment, above referred OFB Circulars clarified and directed that seniority in respect of Industrial Employees will be counted from the date of up-gradation to Skilled Grade and not from the date of induction/entry/promotion in the Semi- skilled grade. Several references in this regard have been received at OFB and after due examination, it has been observed that the OFB Circulars under reference are not in line with the principles of seniority as laid down by DOPT from time to time. Therefore, the Competent Authority has decided that in supersession of the above referred OFB Circulars dated 24.12.2002 and 13.01.2003, henceforth, seniority in respect of IEs will be governed by the relevant clause of DOPT OM No.20011/5/90-Estt(D) dated 4th November, 1992 and OM No.22011/7/86-Estt(D) dated 3rd July, 1986. Accordingly, promotion from Skilled to Highly Skilled Grade- II will be made as per the seniority fixed for Semi-skilled grade (entry grade) which will be arrived at as per merit of the select panel, without making any linkage to the date of up-gradation to the Skilled Grade. It may so happen that a person lower in the merit list of recruitment (in Semi-skilled grade) joins earlier due to early clearance of PVR. In such case, the person lower in the merit list will complete his/her qualifying service and be up-graded to Skilled Grade on earlier date as compared to a person higher in the merit list. However, person higher in the merit list will not lose his seniority and will be placed above the person lower in the merit list after getting up- gradation to Skilled Grade. (S. K. Singh) Director/IR For Director General, Ordnance Factories” (emphasis supplied) [2024] 10 S.C.R. 145 V. Vincent Velankanni v. The Union of India and Others 40. By virtue of the above GO,33 the rule position qua the fixation of seniority has been restored to be governed by OM dated 4th November, 1992(reproduced supra), according to which the relevant date for fixation of seniority would be the date of initial appointment and not the date of upgradation/promotion to the skilled grade. The OM dated 4th August, 2015 further clarifies that the person higher in the merit list will not lose his seniority and will be placed above the person lower in the merit list after getting upgradation to the skilled grade. 41. However, the clarification issued vide GO dated 4th August, 2015 does not operate retrospectively as it is specifically provided in the said GO that “henceforth”, the seniority in respect of Industrial Establishments will be governed by the relevant clause of OM dated 4th November, 1992. 42. It is trite law that an Office Memorandum/Government cannot have a retrospective effect unless and until there is an express provision to make its effect retrospective or that the operation thereof is retrospective by necessary implication. In this regard, we are benefitted by the observations of this Court in Sonia v. Oriental Insurance Co. Ltd. and Others,34 wherein it was held that: “11.