It cannot be denied that there is a degree of overlap between Entry 8 and Entry 6 of List II. However, Entry 8 of List II cannot be rendered redundant for all purposes by a declaration by parliamentary law under Entry 52 of List I. Such as interpretation, as held above, would completely tilt the federal balance in the favour of Parliament. 124. Paragraph 86(d) must be read along with paragraph 88 extracted in the earlier part of the . The Bench only placed reliance on the decision in Indian Mica (supra) to arrive at this conclusion. In paragraph 3 of Indian Mica (supra), the Constitution Bench held as follows: 2032 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “Denatured spirit though an alcoholic liquor is not fit for human consumption. The power to levy duty on the same was and is given to the Central Legislature. But the same being intoxicating liquor, the Provincial Legislature under the 1935 Act and at present the State Legislature has power to levy fee. The power of any Legislature to levy fee is conditioned by the fact that it must be by and large a quid pro quo for the services rendered.” (emphasis supplied) 125. The conclusion in Indian Mica (supra) that the State Legislature has the competence to levy fees on denatured alcohol (which this Court in Synthetics (7J) (supra) interchangeably uses with industrial alcohol) is premised on the wide interpretation of the phrase intoxicating liquor in Entry 8 of List II to include denatured alcohol. However, this Court in Synthetics (7J) (supra) expressly rejected this interpretation. The State Legislature would have the competence to levy fees in terms of Entry 66 of List II in respect of any of the matters in the List. Thus, the conclusion in paragraph 86(d) creates an inherent inconsistency within the . We have overruled the interpretation in Synthetics (7J) (supra) on the scope of Entry 8 and the interaction between Entry 8 and Entry 52 of List. The phrase ‘intoxicating liquor’ in Entry 8 includes denatured alcohol. Thus, the State will have the competence to levy fees with respect to denatured alcohol, but for the reasons in this . 126. Reference may be made to s of this Court interpreting Synthetics (7J) which are summarised in Section A(iii) of this . This Court interpreted Synthetics (7J) (supra) in the following manner: a. The State has the competence to legislate upon industrial alcohol as a product of the controlled industry under Entry 33 of List III;198 b. The State has the competence to legislate upon the process of producing denatured spirit but not the product of denatured spirit because the process is related to preventing the diversion of non-potable liquor to potable liquor;199 198 Shri Bileshwar Khand Udyog Khedut Sahakari Mandali (supra) 199 See VAM Organic(I) (supra) and VAM Organic (II) (supra) [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2033 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons c. The State does not have the competence to legislate upon rectified spirit;200 and d. The State has the competence to legislate upon rectified spirit that is used for the purpose of preparing potable alcohol.201 127.