According to us, it cannot for two reasons: (1) The decree having purported to create right or title in the plaintiff for the first time that is not being a declaration of pre-existing right, did require registration. It may also be pointed out that the first suit cannot really be said to have been decreed on the basis of compromise, as the suit was decreed “in view of the written statement filed by the defendant admitting the claim of the plaintiff to be correct”. Decreeing of suit in such a situation is covered by 12 Rule 6, and not by 23 Rule 3, which deals with compromise of suit, whereas the former is on the subject of on admissions. (2) A perusal of the impugned shows that the first appellate court held the decree in question as ‘collusive’ as it was with a view to defeat the right of others who had bona fide claim over the property of Ganpat. Learned Judge of the High Court also took the same view.” 9. Following the above of Bhoop S Singh (supra), the High Court held that since the compromise decree dated 04.10.1985 did not declare any pre-existing right of the plaintiff, hence it requires registration. The High Court relied on the of Gurdwara Sahib Vs. Gram Panchayat Village Sirthala and Another (supra) and made following observations in paragraphs 10, 11 and 12: - “10. In the present case, in the earlier suit CS No.250-A/1984 the petitioner had claimed declaration of title on the plea of adverse possession and the compromise decree was passed in the suit. The very fact that the suit was based upon the plea of adverse possession reflects that the petitioner had no pre-existing title in the suit property. Till the suit was decreed, the petitioner was a mere encroacher, at the most denying the title of lawful owner. 1226 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 11. The Supreme Court in the matter of Gurudwara Sahib Vs. Gram Panchayat Village Sirthala reported in 2014(3) MPLJ 36 has settled that declaratory decree based on plea of adverse possession cannot be claimed and adverse possession can be used only as shield in defence by the defendant. It has been held that:- (SCC p.673, paras 7-8) “7. In the Second Appeal, the relief of ownership by adverse possession is again denied holding that such a suit is not maintainable. 8. There cannot be any quarrel to this extent the s of the courts below are correct and without any blemish. Even if the plaintiff is found to be in adverse possession, it cannot seek a declaration to the effect that such adverse possession has matured into ownership. Only if proceedings filed against the appellant and appellant is arrayed as defendant that it can use this adverse possession as a shield/defence.” 12. The plea of the petitioner based upon Sec.27 of the Limitation Act is found to be devoid of any merit since it relates to the extinction of the right of the lawful owner after expiry of the Limitation Act, but in view of the of the supreme court in the matter of Gurudwara Sahib (supra), the petitioner cannot claim himself to be the owner automatically after the expiry of the said limitation.” 10.