It is in the above backdrop that the controversy must be considered. 8.7 Exercise of mineral rights have to be consistent with mineral development in the country, which would embrace, inter alia, uniformity in mineral development throughout the country having regard to several factors which would otherwise come in the way of such development. Hence, the framers of the Constitution introduced Entry 50 - List I enabling a limitation being imposed on Entry 50 - List II although that is a taxation Entry giving powers to the States to impose taxes on mineral rights. It is subject to [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2157 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons any limitation imposed by Parliament under Entry 54 - List I. 8.8 The golden thread which runs through Entry 54 - List I and Entry 23 - List II is that the Entries deal with regulation of mines and mineral development. Thus, any aspect of regulation of mines and mineral development taken under the control of the Union by a declaration made by the Parliament by a law, denudes the State Legislature of its legislative competence to pass any law to that extent. If a Parliamentary law such as MMDR Act, 1957 is enacted and deals with certain aspects of mineral development, to that extent the State Legislature would be denuded of its competence to pass any law on the said aspect. The legislative competence vested with the State Legislature is, therefore, not an absolute one but is subject to a Parliamentary law enacted as per Entry 54 - List I dealing with mineral development. In the circumstance, the aforesaid observations made in Synthetics and Chemicals (7J) are in consonance with the constitutional framework of Article 246 read with the Entries in Lists I and III and the doctrine of occupied field applies in the context of Section 18G of IDRA enacted under Entry 52 – List I and Entry 33(a) – List III. 17. One of the contentions raised was that so long as the notified has not been issued by the Central Government which triggers the exercise of powers under Section 18G of the IDRA, the States would have the legislative competence to pass laws under Entry 33(a) – List III. In my view, the issuance of a notified under Section 18G is only a ministerial act to be performed and to be complied with by the Central Government by a publication in the official gazette. The object of publication of a notified in the official gazette is to inform the world at large about the contents of the said . This could happen at any point of time having regard to the situations and conditions which emerge in the Indian economy with regard to a product of a scheduled industry which is also described as an article or class of articles relatable to any scheduled industry under Section 18G of IDRA. Thus, when the field is occupied by Section 18G of the IDRA which is an enactment made pursuant to Entry 52 – List I and the State Legislatures are 2158 [2024] 10 S.C.R.