20. Dr. Devdas P.K. PW-13 was the doctor who had conducted the post- mortem examination of the deceased on 07.07.2000. He stated that on examination of the dead body he found multiple injection marks present in front of both the elbows. The front of the right wrist showed superficial linear incised injury measuring 5cm in length which was partially healed. He further stated that the stomach, small intestine and contents, liver, kidney and blood were preserved and sealed and thereafter sent for chemical analysis. On 09.01.2001, he received the chemical analysis report dated 10.10.2000. The report showed presence of organophosphorus compound in the viscera. Death was due to respiratory failure as a result of consumption of substance containing organophosphorus compound. 20.1 In his cross-examination PW-13 stated that organophosphorus compound is a pesticide, however, the quantity of the poison in the viscera of the blood of the deceased was not mentioned in the FSL report. The amount of organophosphorus could be detected during the treatment of the injury. The brain would be conscious till the poison effected the brain. PW-13 could not say the time when the deceased had consumed poison. [2024] 3 S.C.R. 343 Kumar @ Shiva Kumar v. State of Karnataka 21. PW-1 in the first information had stated that before his elder daughter could reach the house the deceased X had become unconscious. Neighbours Kumari Hema, Mahesh, and Sarojamma along with other neighbours, including Smt. Hiremani, had seen through the window that the phone was ringing continuously and that his daughter had become unconscious. They had got the door opened and when they asked X why she had done so, her reply was that the accused was responsible and because of his harassment she had consumed poison. After that she collapsed. It was thereafter that her sister and brother-in-law came and took her to Nirmala Devi Hospital and thereafter to Mission Hospital. 22. The post-mortem report is dated 07.07.2000. From an external examination of the dead body it was found that there were multiple injection marks present over the front of both the elbows. The front of the right wrist showed superficial linear incised injury measuring 5cm in length, partially healed. The stomach, small intestine and contents, liver, kidney and blood were preserved to be sent for chemical analysis. Accordingly, the blood and viscera were sealed and sent to FSL, Bangalore for chemical analysis on 07.07.2000. The final opinion was kept reserved pending receipt of the chemical analysis report. The chemical analysis report dated 10.10.2000 was received on 09.01.2001. As per the report, colour test TLC method responded for presence of organophosphorus pesticide in stomach, small intestine, liver, kidney and blood. Thereafter the doctor gave the final opinion opining that death was due to respiratory failure as a result of consumption of substance containing organophosphorus compound. 23. The evidence on record, as noted above, not only reveal glaring inconsistencies but also gaping holes in the version of the prosecution. That apart, there are material omissions too. PW-1 is the father and the first informant.