Procedure in effecting sales.—(1) When any sale of either movable or immovable property is ed under the provisions of this Chapter, the Collector shall issue a proclamation in the prescribed form with its translation in Marathi of the intended sale, specifying the time and place of sale, and in the case of movable property whether the sale is subject to confirmation or, not and when land paying revenue to the State Government is to be sold, the revenue assessed upon it, together with any other particulars he may think necessary. 500 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (2) Such proclamation shall be made by beat of drum at the headquarters of the taluka and in the village in which the immovable property is situate if the sale be of immovable property ; and if the sale be of movable property, the proclamation shall be made in the village in which such property was seized, and in such other places as the Collector may direct. (3) A copy of the proclamation issued under this section where it relates to the sale of any holding shall be sent to the Co-operative Bank or the Land Development Bank or both operating within the area in which the holding is situated. S. 193. Notification of sales.—(1) A written notice of the intended sale of immovable property, and of the time and place thereof, shall be affixed in each of the following places, namely :– (a) the office of the Collector of the district, (b) the office of the Tahsildar of the taluka in which the immovable property is situate, (c) the Chavdi, or some other public building in the village in which it is situate, and (d) the defaulter’s dwelling place. (2) In the case of movable property, the written notice shall be affixed in the Tahsildar’s office, and in the Chavdi, or some other public building in the village in which such property was seized. (3) The Collector may also cause notice of any sale, whether of movable or immovable property, to be published in any other manner that he may deem fit. (4) A notice referred to in this section shall be in such form as may be prescribed. S. 194. Sale by whom to be made ; time of sale, etc.—(1) Sales shall be made by auction by such persons as the Collector may direct. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 501 M/s Al-Can Export Pvt. Ltd. v. Prestige H.M. Polycontainers Ltd. & Ors. (2) No such sale shall take place on a Sunday or other general holiday recognized by the State Government, nor until after the expiration of at least thirty days in the case of immovable property, or seven days in the case of movable property, from the latest date on which any of the said notices shall have been affixed as required by section 193. S. 195. Postponement of sale.—The sale may from time to time be postponed for any sufficient reason : Provided that, when the sale is postponed for a period longer than thirty days a fresh proclamation and notice shall be issued unless the defaulter consents to waive it.