However, the seizure will be only temporary and limited for the purpose of the investigation. The power of search and seizure is an accepted norm in our criminal law envisaged in Sections 96 to 103 and 165 of the Criminal Procedure Code, 1973 (for short “the Code”). The Evidence Act permits relevancy as the only test of admissibility of evidence. The evidence obtained under 5 (1999) 6 SCC 172 6 (1996) 2 SCC 37 1428 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports an illegal search and seizure does not exclude relevant evidence on that ground. It is wrong to invoke the spirit of the Constitution to exclude such evidence. The decisions of the American Supreme Court spelling out certain constitutional protections in regard to search and seizure are not applicable to exclude the evidence obtained on an illegal search. Courts in India refuse to exclude relevant evidence merely on the ground that it is obtained by illegal search and seizure. When the test of admissibility of evidence lies in relevancy, unless there is an express or necessarily implied prohibition in the Constitution or other law, evidence obtained as a result of illegal search and seizure is not liable to be shut out. Search and seizure is not a new weapon in the armoury of those whose duty it is to maintain social security in its broadest sense. If the safeguards are generally on the lines adopted by the Code, they would be regarded as adequate and render the restrictions imposed as reasonable measures. 5. It would be seen that the organised traffic in contraband generates deleterious effect on the national economy affecting the vitals of the economic life of the community. It is settled law that illegality committed in investigation does not render the evidence obtained during that investigation inadmissible. In spite of illegal search property seized, on the basis of said search, it still would form basis for further investigation and prosecution against the accused. The manner in which the contraband is discovered may affect the factum of discovery but if the factum of discovery is otherwise proved then the manner becomes immaterial”. 29. Again, in Khet Singh vs. Union of India (supra) this Court after considering number of earlier decisions held that: “16. Law on the point is very clear that even if there is any sort of procedural illegality in conducting the search and seizure, the evidence collected thereby will not become inadmissible and the court would consider all the circumstances and find out whether any serious prejudice had been caused to the accused. If the search and seizure was in complete defiance of the law and procedure and [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1429 Narcotics Control Bureau v. Kashif there was any possibility of the evidence collected likely to have been tampered with or interpolated during the course of such search or seizure, then, it could be said that the evidence is not liable to be admissible in evidence”. 30. In State of Punjab Vs. Makhan Chand (supra), this Court upheld the conviction, where the contraband was recovered during a chance recovery, even though the procedure under Section 52A was not followed.