It is an extraordinary remedy. It is a discretionary remedy; b. The High Court always has the discretion not to exercise the writ jurisdiction depending upon the facts of the case. It all depends on the facts of individual cases; c. Even if the High Court, in a petition of Habeas Corpus, finds that custody of the child by the respondents was illegal, in a given case, the High Court can decline to exercise jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution of India if the High Court is of the view that at the stage at which the Habeas Corpus was sought, it will not be in the welfare and interests of the minor to disturb his/her custody; and d. As far as the decision regarding custody of the minor children is concerned, the only paramount consideration is the welfare of the minor. The parties’ rights cannot be allowed to override the child’s welfare. This principle also applies to a petition seeking Habeas Corpus concerning a minor. 7. Now, we come to the impugned . The reasons given by the Division Bench are found only in two paragraphs, namely, paragraphs nos. 10 and 11, which read thus: “10. From perusal of the Tejaswini Gaud & Ors. (supra), the Habeas Corpus proceeding is not to justify or examine 4 (2024) SCC OnLine SC 758 70 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the legality of the custody. In the present case, the only thing which is required to be considered is whether the detention of the minor child by the parents or others was illegal and without any authority of law. It is the settled proposition of law that the Writ of Habeas Corpus is maintainable only if the person is able to prove that the Corpus is in illegal custody or is kept in illegal confinement. In the present case, admittedly the petitioners would have precedence over the respondent Nos. 3 and 4 who are the relatives from the maternal side whereas the petitioner No. 3 is the biological father of the Corpus, therefore, the writ of Habeas Corpus is maintainable as well as the petitioners would have precedence for custody of the minor child qua the respondent Nos. 3 and 4. 11. The writ of the Habeas Corpus for seeking custody of minor child is maintainable only if the Corpus is in illegal custody. In the present case, the custody/detention of a minor child by the respondent Nos. 3 and 4 who are not the natural guardian of the Corpus, are not entitled to her legal custody. Accordingly, the respondent Nos.3 and 4 are directed to hand over the custody of the minor child namely XXXX to the petitioners within 15 days from the date of receipt of certified copy of the .” (emphasis added) 8. It is apparent that the High Court has not dealt with and considered the issue of the welfare of the child. The High Court has disturbed the child’s custody based only on the father’s right as a natural guardian.