9. On an illustrative basis, we deem it appropriate in this regard to reproduce Section 8 of the Calcutta University Act, 1979, which reads as follows: “8. (1) The Vice-Chancellor shall be appointed by the Chancellor on the unanimous recommendation of the Senate. If the Senate fails to make any such recommendation, the Vice-Chancellor shall be appointed by the Chancellor in consultation with the Minister from a panel of three persons to be elected by the Senate in accordance with the system of proportional representation by means of the single transferable vote. (2) (a) The Vice-Chancellor shall hold office for a period of four years or till he attains the age of 65 years, whichever is earlier, and shall, subject to the provisions of this section, be eligible for re-appointment for a period not exceeding four years. (b) The Chancellor may, notwithstanding the expiration of the term of the office of the Vice-Chancellor or his attaining the age of 65 years, allow him to continue in office till a successor assumes office, provided that he shall not continue as such for any period exceeding one year. (3) The Vice-Chancellor shall be a whole-time officer of the University and shall be paid from the University Fund a salary of three thousand and five hundred rupees per month and such allowances as the Chancellor may decide. (4) The Vice-Chancellor may resign his office by writing under his hand addressed to the Chancellor. (5) If— (a) the Vice-Chancellor is, by reason of leave, illness or other cause, temporarily unable to exercise the powers and perform the duties of his office, or 76 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (b) a vacancy occurs in the office of the Vice-Chancellor by reason of death, resignation or expiry of the term of his office, removal or otherwise, then, during the period of such temporary inability or pending the appointment of a Vice-Chancellor, as the case may be, the Pro-Vice- Chancellor for Academic Affairs shall exercise the powers and perform the duties of the Vice-Chancellor. (6) The vacancy in the office of the Vice-Chancellor occurring by reason of death, resignation or expiry of the term of his office, removal or otherwise shall be filled up by appointment of a Vice-Chancellor in accordance with the provisions of sub-section (1) within a period of six months from the date of occurrence of the vacancy.” 10. We may hasten to add at this stage that notwithstanding some variance in the provisions of the Acts under which Vice-Chancellors are to be appointed, especially with regard to composition of the Search-cum-Selection Committee, we deem it appropriate to invoke our powers under Article 142 of the Constitution to do complete justice in this matter and pass this common for constitution of Search-cum-Selection Committee for all the subject Universities. Hence, we resolve to constitute Search-cum-Selection Committee(s) of the same composition so as to avoid any confusion, irrespective of the fact that the relevant provision of the Statute of the concerned University may contain slight variations.