The principles for determining conversion to Indian rupee are as follows: 5.1 Where the contract provides for a rate of exchange, the same must be used to convert the amount in accordance with the wording of the contractual clause. In this case, article IX-3.1 of the contract provided for the exchange rate of FF 1.033 = Re. 1.000, which the Court held as applying to only 20% of the fees and charges computed in French francs based on contractual interpretation.20 Further, the arbitral award provided for an enhanced rate of conversion of FF 1.000 = Rs. 1.5178 as applicable to payments in Indian rupee on or after 30.11.1966 as the Indian rupee was depreciated at this time. The Court interpreted the arbitral award and held this exchange rate to apply in place of what was provided in article IX-3.1 to the extent of payments made in Indian rupee on and after 30.11.1966.21 5.2 For the remaining amount that still required to be converted to Indian rupee for which no exchange rate was provided in the contract or the arbitral award, the Court considered six possible dates as the proper date for fixing the rate of exchange22: i. the date when the amount became due and payable; ii. the date of the commencement of the action; iii. the date of the decree; 20 Forasol (supra), para 16. 21 ibid, paras 17-22. 22 ibid, paras 24-2 5. 304 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports iv. the date when the court s execution to issue; v. the date when the decretal amount is paid or realised; vi. and in cases where a decree is passed by the court in terms of an arbitral award in foreign currency, the date of the award. 5.3 After an extensive discussion of English jurisprudence on the point, the Court noted the position of law in England at the time.23 Briefly stated, the position is as follows: Both courts and arbitrators in England have the jurisdiction to make a / award in foreign currency in certain circumstances. In the Jugoslavenska case,24 the Court of Appeal held that in cases of arbitral awards, the date of award is the relevant date for determining the exchange rate. This was a departure from the ‘breach date rule’, i.e., the conversion must be as per the exchange rate on the date when the debt was payable, which principle was laid down by the House of Lords in the Havana case.25 Subsequently, in the Schorsch Meier case26 (this was not a case of arbitration but a claim for payment of price of goods in a foreign currency filed before English courts), the Court of Appeal held that the date of conversion should be the date of payment, i.e., the date on which the court authorises enforcement of the in terms of sterling. Finally, in the Miliangos case,27 the House of Lords also held that the date of conversion should be the date when the court authorises enforcement of the in terms of sterling pound.