[2024] 8 S.C.R. 700 : 2024 INSC 642 K. Ravi v. State of Tamil Nadu & Anr. (Criminal Appeal No. 3598 of 2024) 29 August 2024 [Bela M. Trivedi* and Satish Chandra Sharma, JJ.] Issue for Consideration Matter pertains to the right of the accused to file a fresh application u/s.216 Cr.P.C. seeking his discharge after the charge is framed by the court, more particularly when his application seeking discharge u/s.227 Cr.P.C. has already been dismissed; and as regards the maintainability of the revision application u/s.397 Cr.P.C. against the dismissing application seeking modification of charge framed which would be an interlocutory . Headnotes† Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 – s.216 – Alteration of charge – s.227 – Discharge – On facts, in a murder trial, accused filed application u/s.227 seeking discharge from the case – Dismissal of application by the Sessions court as well as the High Court – Accused then filed application u/s.216 seeking alteration of the charge – Application dismissed by the Sessions court, however, revision application allowed by the High Court – Legality of: Held: s. 216 does not give any right to the accused to file a fresh application seeking his discharge after the charge is framed by the court, more particularly when his application seeking discharge u/s.227 has already been dismissed – dismissing application seeking modification of charge would be an interlocutory and in view of the express bar contained in s.397(2), the revision application itself is not maintainable – Accused miserably failed to get himself discharged from the case in the first round of litigation, when he had filed the application u/s.227, still however he filed another vexatious application seeking modification of charge u/s.216 to derail the criminal proceedings – High Court, on an absolutely extraneous consideration and in utter disregard * Author [2024] 8 S.C.R. 701 K. Ravi v. State of Tamil Nadu & Anr. of the settled legal position, allowed the revision application filed by the accused, though legally untenable, and set aside the charge framed by the Sessions Court against the accused – Said being ex facie illegal, untenable and dehors the material on record, is set aside – passed by the Sessions Court is restored – Accused having sufficiently derailed the proceedings by filing frivolous and untenable applications one after the other misusing the process of law, cost of Rs. 50,000/- to be paid by the accused to the appellant – s.397 – Costs. [Paras 8, 10-13] Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 – s.216 – Alteration of charge – Accused filing a fresh application u/s.216 for alteration of charge, when his application seeking discharge u/s.227 has already been dismissed – Correctness: Held: s.216 is an enabling provision which enables the court to alter or add to any charge at any time before is pronounced, and if any alternation or addition to a charge is made, the court has to follow the procedure as contained therein – s.216 does not give any right to the accused to file a fresh application seeking his discharge after the charge is framed by the court, more particularly when his application seeking discharge u/s.227 has already been dismissed – Unfortunately, such applications are being filed in the trial courts sometimes in ignorance of law and sometimes deliberately to delay the proceedings – Once such applications though untenable are filed, the trial courts have no alternative but to decide them, and then again such s would be challenged before the higher courts, and the whole criminal trial would get derailed – Such practice is highly deplorable, and if followed, should be dealt with sternly by the courts – Judicial deprecation.