The Performance Security can be invoked and appropriated at any time, upon occurrence of any of the following conditions, without any reference to the Resolution Applicant. i. any of the condition under the Letter of Intent or the Successful Resolution Plan are breached; ii. if the Resolution Applicant fails to re-issue or extend the Performance Security (if provided as a PBG), in accordance with the terms of this RFRP; or iii. failure of the Successful Resolution Applicant to implement the Approved Resolution Plan to the satisfaction of the CoC, and in accordance with the terms of the Approved Resolution Plan.” 15. Clause 3.13.9 specifies that the performance security shall not be set off against or used as part of the consideration which the SRA proposes to offer in relation to the company: “3.13.9 The Performance Security shall not be set-off against or used as part of the consideration that the Successful Resolution Applicant proposes to offer in relation to the Company, even if expressly indicated as such by the Successful Resolution Applicant in the Successful Resolution Plan.” [2024] 1 S.C.R. 1057 State Bank of India and Ors v. The Consortium of Mr Murari Lal Jalan and Mr Florian Fritsch and Anr 16. Clause 9.4 of the Resolution Plan specifically contemplates that the performance guarantee provided by the Resolution Applicant can be invoked in terms of RFRP. NCLAT has permitted the SRA to adjust the last tranche of Rs 150 crores by adjusting the PBG of Rs 150 crores. This forms the subject matter of appeal in this Court. 17. Mr N Venkataraman, Additional Solicitor General appearing on behalf of SBI, submitted that: (i) By its affidavit dated 16 August 2023, SBI had clearly stipulated three conditions, among them being that the SRA must infuse Rs 350 crores by 31 August 2023; (ii) The plain meaning of the expression “infuse” is that the SRA was liable to pay three tranches of a total amount of Rs 350 crores and the NCLAT was not justified at the interim stage in permitting an adjustment of the PBG of Rs 150 crores against the obligation to deposit the last tranche; (iii) The SRA had to undertake to comply with the other terms and conditions of the Resolution Plan besides complying with the liabilities relating to the payment to the employees. As regards the payment to the employees, an appeal filed by the SRA before this Court against the of the NCLAT dated 21 October 2022 was dismissed on 30 January 2023. Yet there is no compliance towards the employees and staff; and (iv) There has been a default on the part of the SRA in complying with the conditions precedent spelt out in clause 7.6 and on various other aspects, including the payment of workmen’s dues, airport dues and other matters. 18. The submission which has been urged on behalf of the lenders has been opposed on behalf of the SRA by Mr Krishnendu Datta, senior counsel. On behalf of the SRA, it has been submitted that: (i) The Resolution Plan specifically contemplates the adjustment of the PBG (originally of Rs 47.5 crores, subsequently enhanced to Rs 150 crores).