Hence, the suit agreement cannot be held as bogus or sham. ON QUESTION – (c) 13. The three Courts concurrently found that under the Uttar Pradesh Civil Laws (Reforms and Amendment) Act 1976, clause (v) of Section 17(2) of the Registration Act 1908 was amended, which made an agreement for the sale of an immovable property, a compulsorily registerable document in the State. On this aspect, no arguments have been canvassed by the appellants. Therefore, in view of explanation [2024] 7 S.C.R. 407 Maharaj Singh & Ors. v. Karan Singh (Dead) Thr. Lrs. & Ors. 1 to Section 3 of the TP Act, the second to fourth defendants shall be deemed to have knowledge of the suit agreement, which was duly registered. It cannot be said that the second to fourth defendants had no knowledge of the suit agreement in view of the constructive notice. It is not their case that they took a search in the office of the Sub-Registrar before getting the sale deeds in their favour. Hence, it cannot be said that they paid money in good faith to the first Defendant. Therefore, the second to fourth defendants can never be held to be bona-fide purchasers who have paid consideration in good faith without the notice of the suit agreement. ON QUESTION (d) 14. Now, we deal with another argument that the plaintiffs ought to have prayed in the suit to cancel the subsequent sale deeds executed by the first defendant. On this aspect, the law has been laid down by a Bench of three Hon’ble Judges of this Court in the case of Lala Durga Prasad & Ors. v. Lala Deep Chand & Ors.4,. Paragraphs 40 to 42 of the said decision read thus: “40. First, we reach the position that the title to the property has validly passed from the vendor and resides in the subsequent transferee. The sale to him is not void but only voidable at the option of the earlier “contractor”. As the title no longer rests in the vendor it would be illogical from a conveyancing point of view to compel him to convey to the plaintiff unless steps are taken to revest the title in him either by cancellation of the subsequent sale or by reconveyance from the subsequent purchaser to him. We do not know of any case in which a reconveyance to the vendor was ed but Sulaiman, C.J. adopted the other course in Kali Charan Singh v. Janak Deo Singh [Kali Charan Singh v. Janak Deo Singh, AIR 1932 All 694 : 1932 SCC OnLine All 154] . He directed cancellation of the subsequent sale and conveyance to the plaintiff by the vendor in accordance with the contract of sale of which the plaintiff sought specific performance. But though this sounds logical the objection to it is that it might bring in its train complications between the vendor and the 4 [1954] 1 SCR 360 : (1953) 2 SCC 509 408 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports subsequent purchaser.