However, no official of the AICTE has been implicated in any wrongdoing. 13. Coming to the Society’s second application for the ‘Business School for Women’, the same extent of 5 acres was shown against clause 6 but there was non-disclosure of the mortgage of the land to secure the outstanding bank loan. Under clause 6(v), the society failed to state that a loan/mortgage had been raised against the title of the land and tick-marked ‘No’ instead of ‘Yes’. Similarly, the application for starting the ‘International Business School of Delhi’ also mentioned the same extent of 5 acres of land but again, clause 6(v) contained incorrect information as against the question whether any loan/ 316 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports mortgage had been raised against the title of the land. The word ‘No’ was tick-marked instead of ‘Yes’. 14. These are the actions which formed the foundation for the CBI’s case against the appellants. As already stated hereinbefore, it was not the AICTE that claimed that it was deceived and dishonestly induced to grant approval owing to suppression of material information by the appellants acting on behalf of the Society. It was a third party who chose to remain anonymous that initiated the investigation. Further, by not implicating any official of the AICTE in the charge sheet and by dropping the provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, the CBI found that the AICTE’s officials were not complicit at all and they were given a clean chit. 15. At this stage we may note that, though the appellants were initially successful in getting the proceedings quashed by the High Court, this Court reversed the said but left it open to the Trial Court to examine the issue raised, on merits, at the time of framing of charges. It is pursuant to the liberty granted by this Court that the learned Special Judicial Magistrate, CBI Court, chose to exercise power under Section 239 Cr.P.C and discharged the appellants. The validity of that exercise was called in question before the High Court, which ultimately held against the appellants. 16. Significantly, the High Court was not inclined to accept the preliminary objection raised by the appellants to the effect that the CBI ought to have filed a revision under Section 397 Cr.P.C against the discharge and could not maintain a petition under Section 482 Cr.P.C. In this regard, the High Court observed that it could always treat a petition filed under Section 482 Cr.P.C as a revision under Section 397 Cr.P.C and, therefore, the appellants’ objection had no substance. On merits, the High Court opined that the appellants had deliberately withheld relevant information knowing fully well that if the land was encumbered in any manner, approval for setting up the educational institutions there would be declined. Holding so, the High Court set aside the discharge . 17. We are, however, of the considered opinion that the finding of the High Court as to deliberate withholding of information by the appellants cannot be accepted on the given facts.