On 4 April 2024, a Government was issued by the Chief Secretary, Government of Uttar Pradesh, with the following directions: a. Madarsas eligible to get recognition from the education boards, at the state or central level, based on various parameters, can run primary or secondary schools after getting recognized by the concerned education boards; and b. Madarsas which cannot get formal recognition because of “sub- standard” facilities will be closed. Committees are to be set up at the district level to ensure that the students studying in such Madarsas are admitted to the schools run by the education department.26 31. Special leave petitions were instituted by the appellant(s) before this Court assailing the correctness of the Impugned Judgement. On 5 April 2024, this Court heard the counsel for the various parties and issued notice on the lead petition. While staying the implementation 26 G.O. No. 43/52-3-3034-2099/4/2024. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 391 Anjum Kadari & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. of the Impugned Judgement, this Court recorded the brief reasons for issuing the interim direction. Accordingly, on 12 April 2024, in view of the stay on the Impugned Judgement, the above Government issuing directions for implementation were withdrawn by the State Government. C. Submissions 32. Dr Abhishek Manu Singhvi, Mr Salman Khurshid, and Dr Menaka Guruswamy, senior counsel assailed the Impugned and advanced the following submissions: a. The State legislature is empowered under Article 246 read with Entry 25 of List III of the Seventh Schedule to enact legislation to regulate Madarsa education. The Madarsa Act principally deals with the regulation of Madarsas concerning curriculum, instruction, standard of education, conduct of examination, and qualifications for teaching. The enactment of laws for regulating secular activities of minority institutions or prescribing standards of education is consistent with Articles 25 to 30; b. In S R Bommai v. Union of India,27 it was held that secularism is a positive concept of equal treatment of all religions. Articles 25 to 30 secure the rights of religious and linguistic minorities, including their right to establish and administer educational institutions. By recognizing and regulating the Madarsa education, the State legislature is taking positive action to safeguard the educational rights of the minorities; c. Article 28 prohibits religious instructions in educational institutions wholly maintained out of state funds. Madarsas impart education based on modern curriculum such as Mathematics, Social Sciences, and Science. Additionally, Madarsas impart education about religion and not “religious instructions.” Article 28 does not bar the State from funding schools providing religious education; d. Article 21-A recognizes the fundamental right of children between the ages of six to fourteen to free and compulsory education. Section 1(5) of the RTE Act excludes Madarsas from 27 [1994] 2 SCR 644 392 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the purview of the legislation. The law enacted by the State in pursuance of Article 21-A cannot violate the fundamental rights of minorities to establish and administer educational institutions; and e. Striking down the Madarsa Act will create a legislative vacuum and result in the deregulation of Madarsas.