Article 341 of the Constitution of India deals with ‘Scheduled Castes’, which reads as under: “341. Scheduled Castes (1) The President may with respect to any State or Union territory, and where it is a State after consultation with the Governor thereof, by public notification, specify the castes, races or tribes or parts of or group within castes, races or tribes which shall for the purposes of this Constitution be deemed to be Scheduled Castes in relation to that State or Union territory, as the case may be. (2)Parliament may by law include in or exclude from the list of Scheduled Castes specified in a notification issued under clause (1) any caste, race or tribe or part of or group within any caste, race or tribe, but save as aforesaid a notification issued under the said clause shall not be varied by any subsequent notification. By exercising the power conferred under clause (1) of Article 341 of the Constitution, the President issued the Constitution (Pondicherry) Scheduled Castes , 1964.10 Clause 2 of the same reads as follows: 10 For short, “the S.C. , 1964” 1514 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “2. The castes, races or tribes or parts of or groups within castes, races or tribes specified in the Schedule to this shall, for the purposes of the Constitution, be deemed to be Scheduled Castes in relation to the Union territory of Pondicherry so far as regards members thereof resident in that Union territory: Provided that no person, who professes a religion different from the Hindu (the Sikh or the Buddhist) religion shall be deemed to be a member of a Scheduled Caste.” Thus, it is manifestly clear from the above that only such castes which have been mentioned in the Schedule appended to the S.C. , 1964, shall be deemed to be Scheduled Castes with respect to the Union Territory of Pondicherry; and that, a person, who is professing Hinduism, Sikhism or Buddhism, shall be deemed to be a member of the Scheduled Caste. The Schedule appended to the S.C. , 1964, mentions 15 castes, in which, the Valluvan Caste finds place at Sl.No.13 and it is hence, recognized as a Scheduled Caste. That apart, the provisions of the S.C. , 1964 were upheld by this Court in Soosai (supra). It is also pertinent to mention here that the converts to Christianity from Scheduled Caste irrespective of generation of conversion would fall under the OBC category as per G.O. Ms. No. 9/2001-Wel(SW-II), dated 19.02.2001 of the Government of Puducherry and the Central List of OBC’s for Puducherry vide No.12011/14/2004-BCC dated 12.03.2007. 9. Admittedly, the appellant is a resident of Pondicherry and her birth was duly registered in the Pondicherry Municipality and she completed her school education at Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya, Periyakalapet, Pondicherry, and B.Tech (IT) at Dr.Pauls Engineering College and M.Tech (IT) at Pondicherry Engineering College. There cannot be any dispute that the appellant’s father, appellant and her brother were in possession of Scheduled Caste Community Certificate issued by the Tahsildar, Taluk Office, Puducherry, which have not been cancelled till today.