Indisputably, it is one thing to say that the dead body is not traceable and another thing to say and claim that the dead body is traced and it is of that person allegedly murdered by the accused. Once the dead body is traced and subjected to autopsy and necrotomic and other evidences are adduced to bring out the cause of death, failure to prove that the dead body is of that very person allegedly done to death by the very accused, must have fatal and adverse consequence on the prosecution case. As noted 10 (2002) 7 SCC 157 742 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports earlier, a case that dead body is untraceable and a case where it is traced and evidence is adduced in a bid to prove the identity of the deceased are different and distinct. In the latter case, upon failure to prove, the prosecution cannot be permitted to advance a case that the dead body is untraceable. In the decision of State v. Sushil Sharma,11 a Division Bench of the Delhi High Court held that there would be absolutely no room, in a criminal case, for conjectures and surmises and the prosecution is supposed to establish its case as is put forth by it and if the case is disbelieved on any aspect by the Court, then the Court could not make out a new case on its own for the prosecution. I am in full agreement with the law thus laid. 31. In the case on hand, evidently the very case of the prosecution is that the body recovered from forest area within jurisdiction of Tirodi Police Station is that of the deceased Shama @ Kalya, and it is to prove the same that the fingerprint test was conducted and relied on. I have already found that though trial Court accepted and acted upon the opinion of the fingerprint test and that the said finding was reversed by the High Court. In categoric terms, the High Court held that the reliance of prosecution to prove that the dead body, subject matter, was that of Shama is based on guess work than on positive evidence. I have already taken note of the fact that the trial Court after accepting the opinion of the fingerprint test held that but for the availability of record slips, Shama @ Kalya being a criminal, there would not have been any chance of identification of the dead body. In such circumstances when once identification of the dead body as that of Shama @ Kalya based on fingerprint test is reversed by the High Court, in the absence of appeal by the State or the victim, it could not be said that the dead body is that of Shama @ Kalya, either for holding the appellant-convicts guilty of the offence under Section 300, IPC punishable under Section 302, IPC, or under Part-I / Part-II of Section 304, IPC. 32. Though, I have already held that upon failure to prove the case put forth that the recovered dead body is that of the person allegedly murdered by the accused, the prosecution cannot be permitted to raise a contention that the dead body is not traceable or that in such eventuality the Court also cannot make out a new case on its 11 2007 SCC OnLine Del 255 [2024] 9 S.C.R.