He states that the police staff tried to save their own life in the duty officer’s room and then saw the deceased lying on the ground. Constable Panwati (PW-2) also sustained bullet injuries in this firing. He then gave a wireless message of the incident to the SHO. This witness was cross examined later but again nothing has come in the cross to doubt the statement of this witness. 16. PW-11 and PW-17 were again, Head Constable and Constable respectively, who were posted at this police station on that fateful day of June 30, 2002. They were also witness to the crime and their deposition states similar facts as narrated by PW-1 and PW-2. 17. The post-mortem was conducted on 01.07.2002 by Dr. Vinay Kumar Singh (PW18) of LBS Hospital. He found 17 ante mortem injuries on the body of the deceased. He confirms his post-mortem report, in his deposition, where in his opinion the cause of death was shock resulting from fire arm injuries. He states that the injuries on the chest and on the back of the deceased were sufficient to cause his death. He also mentions that bullets were also recovered from the chest cavity of the deceased and one bullet was recovered from the right side of the back. There were 6 fire-arm entry wounds corresponding to 6 fire-arm exit wounds. At least one fire-arm entry wound has a blackening at the entry point which shows that this was fired at a point-blank range. 18. In all, the deceased had received 8 to 9 shots from the carbine of the appellant which are spread all over his body. Entry wounds exist on the front as well as on the back of the deceased’s body, which makes it clear that the deceased was shot not only from the front but also from the back, while he was trying to escape. The nature [2024] 7 S.C.R. 173 Surender Singh v. State (NCT of Delhi) of these injuries corroborates with the ocular testimony of PW-2. It is PW-2 who had said that when she came to the Police Station, she had seen the deceased talking to the appellant at the gate of the police station and that the appellant was armed with a carbine. PW-21, Constable Devender Kumar who had to take the charge of ‘sentry’/guard at 12 noon, also states that he saw the appellant talking to the deceased before the incident. PW-2 heard the sound of firing few minutes later and then saw the deceased (who was bleeding) rushing towards the duty room with his hands in the air, and the appellant was seen firing at him from behind. 19. Taken together, all these evidences are unassailable. The case of the prosecution stands secured on these evidences. It is a clear case of murder. The motive for the appellant (admittedly the deceased was having an affair with the appellant’s wife), and the execution of the crime at the Police Station, all point towards the murder committed inside the police station by the present appellant.