It is difficult to understand as to why the accused persons would take her clothes along while abducting her. On the contrary, this fact actually serves the case of the prosecution in proving that the de-ceased was actually residing at the house in Simaltalla. The clothes appear to have been planted along with the dead body in to support the fact of actual residence of the deceased at her father’s house in Simaltalla. In light of the material on record, it could be concluded that no material whatsoever could be found at the house of Jang Bahadur Singh to directly indicate that the deceased was residing there. The make-up articles were linked with the deceased on the basis of a completely unacceptable reasoning and without any corroborative material. The prosecution has failed to examine even one cohabitant to prove the said fact. Furthermore, no personal belongings of the deceased, such as clothes, footwear, utensils etc., could be found in the entire house. Therefore, we are not inclined to believe that the deceased was actually residing in the house at Simaltalla. In the same breath, we may also note that even for PW18, no material was found in the said house to indicate that he was in fact residing there. Apart from his own statement, no witness has come forward to depose that the informant was a resident of the said house. The prosecution has not spotted any room in the entire house wherein PW18 was residing and thus, his own presence at the place of occurrence is doubtful. 30. The appellants have also raised certain objections with respect to the time of death. The discrepancy has been flagged in light of the post mortem report, based on the post-mortem conducted at around 5:30 PM on 31.08.1985, which indicates that death took place around 24 hours ago. It indicates that the time of death must have been around 5:00 PM on 30.08.1985, which is contrary to the evidence of PW18 that the incident took place around 10:00 PM on 30.08.1985. A post mortem report is generally not considered as conclusive evidence of the facts mentioned in the re-port regarding the cause of death, [2024] 10 S.C.R. 123 Vijay Singh @ Vijay Kr. Sharma v. The State of Bihar time of death etc. It could always be corroborated with other direct evidence on record such as ocular evidence of the eye witnesses. However, when there is no other credible evidence on record to contradict the report, the facts stated in the post mortem report are generally taken as true. In the present matter, the evidence of the eye witnesses has been declared as wholly unreliable including on the aspect of time of death. Thus, there is no reason to doubt the post mortem report and the findings therein. 31. At this stage, we may also note that the approach of the High Court in reversing the acquittal of A-6 and A-7 was not in line with the settled law pertaining to reversal of acquittals.