2021 SCC OnLine SC 1243 has dealt with another important issue of lack of consistent and uniform standards for analysing the impact of development projects. This Court [2024] 5 S.C.R. 131 The State of Telangana & Ors. v. Mohd. Abdul Qasim (Died) Per LRs. observed that the principle of sustainable development may create differing and arbitrary metrics depending on the nature of individual projects. Therefore, this Court advocated and accepted the need to apply and adopt the standard of ‘environmental Rule of law’. Paragraph 40 of the said decision reads thus: “40. A cogent remedy to this problem is to adopt the standard of the ‘environmental Rule of law’ to test governance decisions under which developmental projects are approved. In its 2015 Issue Brief titled “Environmental Rule of Law : Critical to Sustainable Development”, the United Nations Environment Programme has recommended the adoption of such an approach in the following terms: “Environmental rule of law integrates the critical environmental needs with the essential elements of the rule of law, and provides the basis for reforming environmental governance. It prioritizes environmental sustainability by connecting it with fundamental rights and obligations. It implicitly reflects universal moral values and ethical norms of behaviour, and it provides a foundation for environmental rights and obligations. Without environmental rule of law and the enforcement of legal rights and obligations, environmental governance may be arbitrary, that is, discretionary, subjective, and unpredictable.” (emphasis supplied) 132 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Forest Constitute A National Asset ● Amarnath Shrine, In re, (2013) 3 SCC 247 “19. Where it is the bounden duty of the State to protect the above rights of the citizen in discharge of its constitutional obligation in the larger public interest, there the law also casts a duty upon the State to ensure due protection to the forests and environment of the country. Forests in India are an important part of the environment. They constitute a national asset. We may, at this stage, refer to the concept of inter-generational equity, which has been treated to be an integral part of Article 21 of the Constitution of India. The courts have applied this doctrine of sustainable development and precautionary principle to the cases where development is necessary, but certainly not at the cost of environment. The courts are expected to drive a balance between the two. In other words, the onerous duty lies upon the State to ensure protection of environment and forests on the one hand as well as to undertake necessary development with due regard to the fundamental rights and values.” (emphasis supplied) Environmental Rule of Law ● H.P. Bus-Stand Management & Development Authority v. Central Empowered Committee, (2021) 4 SCC 309 “I.1. Environmental rule of law xxx xxx xxx “49. The environmental rule of law, at a certain level, is a facet of the concept of the rule of law. But it includes specific features that are unique to environmental governance, features which are sui generis. The environmental rule of law seeks to create essential tools — conceptual, procedural and institutional to bring structure to the discourse on environmental protection.