In the event the FRANCHISEE fails to comply with the above, BML shall have the right to enter upon the FRANCHISEE’s premises and remove, without liability, all Trademarks, signs, logos, trademarks (sic), materials written documents and any other representations connected with BML and the FRANCHISEE shall reimburse to BML all costs and expenses incurred thereof. 14.4 In the event of termination of this Agreement, FRANCHISEE shall return to BML by the effective date of termination all advertising and promotional materials, marketing aids and other documents and materials received and all Confidential Information received under this Agreement. 14.5 Both parties agree that goodwill created with respect to Service and Pre Paid Services is the exclusive property of BML. Any expenditure for promotion, advertising and other efforts by FRANCHISEE is made with the knowledge that this Agreement may be terminated pursuant to [2024] 2 S.C.R. 1027 Bharti Cellular Limited (Now Bharti Airtel Limited) v. Assistant Commissioner of Income Tax, Circle 57, Kolkata and Another Article 13 hereof. Under no circumstance shall BML be obliged to pay to the FRANCHISEE upon termination of this Agreement any termination pay or compensation for subscriber acquisition, special indemnification, or any other termination compensation. xx xx xx 16.1 The FRANCHISEE understands that it is an independently owned business entity and this Agreement does not make the FRANCHISEE, its employees, associates or agents as employees, agents or legal representatives of BML for any purpose whatsoever. The FRANCHISEE has no express or implied right or authority to assume or to undertake any obligation in respect of or on behalf of or in the name of BML, or to bind BML in any manner. In case, the FRANCHISEE, its employees, associates or agents hold out as employees, agents, or legal representatives of BML, the FRANCHISEE shall forthwith upon demand make good any/all loss, cost, damages, including consequential loss, suffered by BML on this account. 16.2 It is understood that the relationship between the parties is solely on principal-to-principal. FRANCHISEE shall not acquire, by virtue of any provision of this Agreement or otherwise, any right, power or capacity to act as an agent or commercial representative of BML for any purpose whatsoever. Nothing contained in the contract shall be deemed or construed as creating a joint venture relationship or legal partnership etc. between BML and the FRANCHISEE. 16.3 The FRANCHISEE shall not obtain/offer the pre paid cards and/or recharge coupons for the Pre Paid Service from any other source other than BML unless such permission is granted in writing by BML in to meet the specific needs of the market and subscribers as determined by BML. xx xx Xx” 22. As per the agreement, the franchisee/distributor is appointed for marketing of prepaid services and for appointing the retailer or 1028 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports outlets for sale promotion. It is pertinent to note that the retailers or outlets for sale promotion are appointed by the franchisee/ distributor and not the assessee. The franchisees/distributors have agreed not to undertake activities mentioned in the agreement for any other competitive cellular mobile telephone service provider in the business.