Consequently, the trial court convicted the accused-appellants for offences punishable under Sections 302/34 and 201/34 of IPC. HIGH COURT FINDINGS 12. Aggrieved by the and of the trial court, the appellants filed an appeal before the High Court. The High Court affirmed the findings of the trial court on strength of the circumstances narrated above and held that recovery of blood-stained stone(s) at the instance of the accused, of which seizure memo (Exb. Ka-6) was prepared, corroborated the prosecution case to dispel any doubt about their guilt. In addition, the High Court relied on the disclosure statement (Exb. Ka-18) which, according to the High Court, led to discovery of the place and consequential recovery. However, the High Court, upon finding that the accused had no previous criminal record and except injuries 1 and 2 none were dangerous to life and those two could be a result of a solitary blow, thought fit to alter the conviction from offence of murder, punishable under Section 302 of IPC, to 1244 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports offence of culpable homicide not amounting to murder, punishable under Section 304 Part I of IPC, and thereby reduced the sentence, accordingly. 13. Aggrieved by their conviction, the appellants are before us. 14. We have heard the learned counsel for the parties and have perused the record. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE APPELLANTS 15. On behalf of the appellants, it was submitted: (i) The circumstances relied upon were not proved beyond reasonable doubt. (ii) The last seen circumstance narrated by PW-2 is not conclusive as there is no proximity between the place where the deceased was last seen alive in the company of the accused and the place from where the body of the deceased was recovered. Further, the time gap between the time when the deceased was last seen alive with the accused and the time when dead body was recovered is so large that intervening circumstances cannot be ruled out. Moreover, the circumstance of walking side by side on a pathway by itself is not an incriminating circumstance. (iii) The incriminating circumstance of discovery /recovery at the instance of the accused has not been put to either of the two accused while recording their statements under Section 313 of CrPC, therefore the same cannot be relied upon. (iv) The disclosure statement was inadmissible as it did not lead to discovery because, according to PW-10, recovery was made from the place pointed out by the accused-appellants even before their disclosure statement was recorded at the police station. Otherwise also, it is not clear from the evidence as to which of the two accused pointed out the place first, to effectuate the recovery. Hence, recovery cannot be imputed to any of the two accused. (v) Assuming that recovery of stone is imputable to the accused, it is not proved that it carried blood of the deceased or that it could have caused such injuries as were found on deceased’s body. Thus, the recovered article was not connected to the crime.