(3) Or against interest of maker.—When the statement is against the pecuniary or proprietary interest of the person making it, or when, if true, it would expose him or would have exposed him to a criminal prosecution or to a suit for damages. (4) Or gives opinion as to public right or custom, or matters of general interest.—When the statement gives the opinion of any such person, as to the existence of any public right or custom or matter of public or general interest, of the existence of which, if it existed, he would have been likely to be aware, and when such statement was made before any controversy as to such right, custom or matter had arisen. [2024] 1 S.C.R. 57 NEERAJ SHARMA v. STATE OF CHHATTISGARH (5) Or relates to existence of relationship.—When the statement relates to the existence of any relationship [by blood, marriage or adoption] between persons as to whose relationship [by blood, marriage or adoption] the person making the statement had special means of knowledge, and when the statement was made before the question in dispute was raised. (6) Or is made in will or deed relating to family affairs.— When the statement relates to the existence of any relationship [by blood, marriage or adoption] between persons deceased, and is made in any will or deed relating to the affairs of the family to which any such deceased person belonged, or in any family pedigree, or upon any tombstone, family portrait or other thing on which such statements are usually made, and when such statement was made before the question in dispute was raised. (7) Or in document relating to transaction mentioned in Section 13, clause (a).—When the statement is contained in any deed, will or other document which relates to any such transaction as is mentioned in Section 13, clause (a). (8) Or is made by several persons and expresses feelings relevant to matter in question.—When the statement was made by a number of persons, and expressed feelings or impressions on their part relevant to the matter in question. The statement given by the complainant/victim (PW-6) on 03.01.2013 was firstly to the investigating officer (PW-10). But more importantly it cannot be called “a dying declaration” simply because PW-6 had mercifully survived. This statement cannot be read as a dying declaration because the person making this statement or declaration had ultimately survived. This supplementary statement given to the investigating officer on 21.03.2013 is nothing more than a statement under Section 162 of Criminal Procedure Code (see: Gentela Vijayavardhan Rao and Another v. State of A.P. (1996) 6 SCC 58 [2024] 1 S.C.R. DIGITAL SUPREME COURT REPORTS 2413; Sunil Kumar and Others v. State of M.P. (1997) 10 SCC 5704; Shrawan Bhadaji Bhirad and Others v. State of Maharashtra (2002) 10 SCC 565; State of U.P. v. Veer Singh and Others (2004) 10 SCC 1176 and S. Arul Raja v. State of Tamil Nadu (2010) 8 SCC 2337. 18. In our considered opinion both the Trial Court as well as the High Court were completely misdirected in holding this to be, inter alia, a case under Section 364A of the IPC.