lapse into an indefinite delay will plainly defeat the object of the statute. A good faith effort to resolve a corporate insolvency is a preferred course. However, a resolution applicant must be fair in its dealings as well. The appellant has failed to abide by its obligations. In that view of the matter, we see no reason or justification to entertain the civil appeal any further. The consequence envisaged under the of this Court shall accordingly ensue in terms of the forfeiture of the amount of Rs 20 crores. As a consequence of this , the management shall revert to the liquidator for taking steps in accordance with law. The civil appeal is accordingly dismissed.” (emphasis supplied). 147. The SRA herein has failed to infuse the first tranche payment of Rs. 350 Crore as envisaged in the Resolution Plan despite the Effective Date being fixed on 20.05.2022. As a consequence, the payment of CIRP costs, workmen and employees’ dues etc. which must be made in priority over the dues of the other creditors have also not been made. More than 5 years have passed and the implementation of the Resolution Plan still seems to be a dim light at the far end of a long tunnel. Over this period of 5 years, several dues such as the Airport dues to be paid by the Corporate Debtor have increased multi-fold due to the fault of the SRA and this Court must ensure that such debts stop running at some point in time. 148. Although one of the key objectives of the IBC, 2016 is to ensure the survival of the corporate debtor as a going concern, yet the same must not come at the cost of efficiency. In scenarios such as the present, “timely liquidation” is indeed preferred over an “endless resolution process”. Such a view will prevent the likelihood of adversely affecting the interests of all the creditors who have been suffering due to no fault of their own and also securing the maximization of value of the remaining assets. 149. At this stage of the implementation of the Resolution Plan, it is no longer viable for the SRA to submit that the Resolution Plan shall automatically stand withdrawn according to Clause 7.6.4 of the Resolution Plan and upon, such withdrawal, the members of the SRA in the MC shall resign, the remaining members of the MC shall assume absolute 2152 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports control of the Corporate Debtor and all the amounts infused by the SRA would be refunded. This is especially so, since the Conditions Precedent were declared to be fulfilled and the Effective Date was achieved on 20.05.2022. The consequence of the failure to implement the Resolution Plan in terms of Clause 9.4 of the Resolution Plan and Clause 3.13.7(iii) of the RFRP is that the Appellants are entitled to invoke the PBG automatically without any reference to the SRA. Therefore, it is directed that the PBG may be invoked by the Appellants in accordance with the terms of the Resolution Plan.