The resolution plan approved by the Committee of Creditors is a creature of the Code and not a pure contract between two consenting parties. 6. During the course of arguments, our attention was drawn to the proviso to Section 31(1) of the Code, which postulates that the adjudicating authority, before passing an for approval of the resolution plan, must satisfy itself that the resolution plan has provisions for its effective implementation. Ebix Singapore Private Limited (supra) did examine this provision but rejected the argument on several grounds, including absence of legislative mandate to direct unwilling Committee of Creditors to re-negotiate or agree to withdrawal of the 2 “NCLAT” for short 3 “NCLT” or “adjudicating authority”, for short 4 [2021] 14 SCR 321 : (2022) 2 SCC 401 1048 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports resolution plan at the behest of the resolution applicant. The effect of approval by the adjudicating authority under Section 31(1) of the Code makes the resolution plan binding on all stakeholders, even those who are not members of the Committee of Creditors. The scrutiny by the adjudicating authority for grant of approval in terms of Section 31(1), read with other provisions of the Code, is limited and restricted. It does not allow or permit the resolution applicant to unilaterally amend/modify, or withdraw the resolution plan post approval by the Committee of Creditors. 7. On facts and to justify the withdrawal, it was submitted that in the present case, the successful resolution applicants were prevented, and were handicapped because of lack of information or rather fraud on the part of the resolution professional. Four aspects were highlighted: - (a) It was concealed that 70 per cent of the revenue of the corporate debtor came from trading, and not from manufacturing. (b) The Mott Macdonald Report dated 30.09.2016 is factually incorrect and flawed. (c) Misleading and false statement was made with regard to the uninstalled imported components of 12,500 M.T. Press, which were stored in the land of a sister concern – Clover Forging and Machining Pvt. Ltd. (d) The successful resolution applicants were misled in view of the non-reliability of financial data. There was ongoing financial/forensic audit. 8. The aforesaid reasons or grounds taken by the successful resolution applicants do not qualify and cannot be treated as a fraud on the part of the resolution professional. This is not a case where misinformation or wrong information was given to the resolution applicants. 9. We have been taken through the information memorandum, as well as, the data in the virtual data room, access to which was granted to the prospective resolution applicant(s), before they had submitted their resolution plan(s). 10. We have also been taken through the documents, which would show the manufacturing output, as well as the capacity of realisation of the [2024] 3 S.C.R. 1049 Deccan Value Investors L.P. & Anr. v. Dinkar Venkatasubramanian & Anr. four units of the corporate debtor. The excise returns, as well as the VAT returns etc., were available in the virtual data room.