2. As a matter of fact, the appellant stood trial along with the four others, including his father Muthu (A-3). The appellant and one Ravichandran (A-2) stood trial for the offences under Sections 306, 342 and 365, IPC whereas the others were charged only for offences under Sections 342 and 306 IPC. After the trial, the appellant was convicted for all the offences for which he stood the trial and at the same time all his co-accused were acquitted from all the charges. As noticed hereinbefore, in the appellant’s appeal the High Court confirmed the conviction under Section 306, IPC and acquitted him only of the other two offences. Hence, this appeal. 3. Heard learned counsel for the appellant and also the learned Standing Counsel for the State of Tamil Nadu. 4. Before dealing with the contentions and the evidence on record which ultimately resulted in the confirmation of the conviction of the appellant under Section 306, IPC, certain relevant aspects of Section 306, IPC with reference to certain relevant decisions are to be looked into. There can be no doubt with respect to the position that to bring home a charge under Section 306, IPC it is incumbent upon the prosecution to establish : a) That the victim of the offence committed suicide; b) That the accused abetted the commission of suicide; c) That the abetment attracts the ingredients under Section 107,IPC. 5. Section 107, IPC defines the offence of abetment and it is constituted by any of the following:- a) instigation to commit the offence; or b) engaging in conspiracy to commit it; or c) intentionally aiding a person to commit it. 1058 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 6. Now, bearing in mind the scope and ambit of Section 107, IPC and its co-relation with Section 306, IPC and the decision of this Court in M. Mohan v. State represented by the Deputy Superintendent of Police1 and in Madan Mohan Singh v. State of Gujarat2 we will proceed to consider the case. After referring to an earlier decision in Chitresh Kumar Chopra v. State (Govt. of NCT of Delhi)3, this Court in M. Mohan’s case (supra) analysed the meaning of the word ‘abetment’ and held in paragraphs 44 and 45 thus:- “44. Abetment involves a mental process of instigating a person or intentionally aiding a person in doing of a thing. Without a positive act on the part of the accused to instigate or aid in committing suicide, conviction cannot be sustained. 45. The intention of the legislature and the ratio of the cases decided by this Court are clear that in to convict a person under Section 306 IPC there has to be a clear mens rea to commit the offence. It also requires an active act or direct act which led the deceased to commit suicide seeing no option and this act must have been intended to push the deceased into such a position that he/she committed suicide.” 7. In the decision in Madan Mohan Singh’s case (supra) this Court was considering an appeal against dismissal of a petition filed under Section 482 Cr.