To deal with such situations, the Commission has proposed the proviso to section 12 (5), where parties may, subsequent to disputes having arisen between them, waive the applicability of the proposed section 12 (5) by an express agreement in writing. In all other cases, the general rule in the proposed section 12 (5) must be followed. In the event the High Court is approached in connection with appointment of an arbitrator, the Commission has proposed seeking the disclosure in terms of section 12 (1). and in which context the High Court or the designate is to have “due regard” to the contents of such disclosure in appointing the arbitrator.” [emphasis supplied] 26. The Law Commission also significantly noted that if the appointing authority is the State, it is even more essential to have an independent and impartial tribunal. Weighing the observations of the 246th Report of the Law commission, India has formally incorporated the International Bar Association(IBA) Guidelines into its statutory framework, introducing a comprehensive system of checks and balances.11 27. Section 12 of the Arbitration Act provides a mechanism to address issues, if any, that may arise pertaining to impartiality of arbitrators. An amendment was carried out in Section 12 and significantly, the Fifth and Seventh Schedule were adopted in the Arbitration Act which provides a statutory reference point to determine independence and eligibility. Section 12(5) reads as under: [(5) Notwithstanding any prior agreement to the contrary, any person whose relationship, with the parties or counsel or the subject-matter of the dispute, falls under any of the categories specified in the Seventh Schedule shall be ineligible to be appointed as an arbitrator: Provided that parties may, subsequent to disputes having arisen between them, waive the applicability of this subsection by an express agreement in writing. ]” 11 HRD Corporation (Marcus Oil and Chemical Division) v. GAIL (India) Ltd. (2018) 12 SCC 471 2288 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 28. The Fifth Schedule adopts the Orange List from the IBA Guidelines on Conflicts of Interest in International Arbitration(for short ‘IBA Guidelines’) requiring arbitrators to disclose any circumstances that might reasonably affect their impartiality, including relationships with the parties, counsel, or subject matter of the dispute. The Sixth Schedule specifies the requirement of disclosure to be made by an arbitrator. The Seventh Schedule incorporates the ‘Red List’ of the IBA Guidelines, outlining scenarios of relationship conflict that would result in de jure ineligibility of the arbitrator. Therefore, the interpretation that all unilateral appointments are automatically nullified under Section 12(5) of the Act, would go way beyond the legislative intent of the Arbitration Act. If the Legislature had intended such a rigid restriction, there would be no need for the proviso to Section 12(5), which explicitly permits parties to waive this requirement through an agreement in writing. This again underscores the emphasis on party autonomy, in the arbitral process. 29. Section 13 outlines the challenge to the procedure in respect of grounds under Section 12(3). Section 13(1) states that parties are free to agree on a procedure to challenge an arbitrator.