17. The records however reveal that the respondent was arrayed as a co-accused in Criminal Case No. 459/2011. He was taken into judicial custody and was granted bail by the trial Court on 04th October, 2011. On 13th November, 2013 charges were framed against the respondent and the other co-accused and the matter was set down to trial. All the incidents relating to registration of the FIR, detention of the respondent, his having applied for bail while in judicial custody and being granting bail vide dated 04th October, 2011 had transpired much before he was called upon by the appellants to fill up the Verification Roll, i.e., well before 30th November, 2011. Despite that, the respondent elected not to disclose the information pertaining to the aforesaid cases to the appellants and replied in the negative to the specific queries posed to him in the Verification Roll, as have been extracted above. He adopted the same stand even after a notice to show cause was issued to him by the appellants calling upon him to explain his conduct. On his categorically denying the allegations levelled against him, the appellants proceeded to follow the prescribed procedure of conducting a departmental inquiry against the respondent for which purpose, an Inquiry Officer was appointed. 18. A perusal of the Inquiry Report submitted by the Inquiry Officer reveals that the respondent had duly participated in the departmental inquiry from the beginning to the end, the statements of all the prosecution witnesses were recorded in his presence and the respondent was also afforded an opportunity to cross-examine the witnesses. He was duly furnished copies of the statements of all the prosecution witnesses and was permitted to lead evidence in his defence, which he did. Only after conducting a full-fledged inquiry did the Inquiry Officer submit his report clearly stating therein that the allegations levelled against the respondent in the Office Memorandum dated 9th July, 2013 to the effect that he had committed misconduct and concealed the fact that two criminal cases were pending against [2024] 7 S.C.R. 923 Union of India and Others v. Shishu Pal @ Shiv Pal him when he had furnished the information in the Verification Roll, were correct. Further, the departmental inquiry recorded the fact that the respondent had prepared or got prepared forged police reports and certificates favouring him which were in fact never prepared or issued by the SHO, P.S., Barnhal. 19. The aforesaid sequence of events demolishes the plea taken by the respondent that he was innocent and had no knowledge of his implication in the criminal cases mentioned in the charge memo and therefore, there was no occasion for him to have concealed material facts at the time of filling up the Verification Rolls. Not only was the respondent aware of the fact that he had been named in the FIR, he was taken into judicial custody and had applied for bail which was granted by the trial Court on 04th October, 2011, much before the date he filled up the Verification Roll.