The scheme in question reserved lands for phirni, paths, agricultural paths, manure pits, cremation grounds etc. and also reserved an area of 100 kanals 2 marlas (standard kanals) for income of the Panchayat. It was held as under: “The income derived by the Panchayat is in no way different from its any other income. It is true that Section 2(bb) of the East Punjab Holdings (Consolidation and Prevention [2024] 6 S.C.R. 927 Karnail Singh v. State of Haryana & Ors. of Fragmentation) Act, 1948, defines “common purpose” to include the following purposes: “… providing income for the Panchayat of the village concerned for the benefit of the village community.” Therefore, the income can only be used for the benefit of the village community. But so is any other income of the Panchayat of a village to be used. The income is the income of the Panchayat and it would defeat the whole object of the second proviso if we were to give any other construction. The Consolidation Officer could easily defeat the object of the second proviso to Article 31-A by reserving for the income of the Panchayat a major portion of the land belonging to a person holding land within the ceiling limit. Therefore, in our opinion, the reservation of 100 kanals 2 marlas for the income of the Panchayat in the scheme is contrary to the second proviso and the scheme must be modified by the competent authority accordingly.” The ratio of the aforesaid would clearly suggest that it is the land reserved for common purposes under the scheme which would be saved, which, otherwise, would be hit by second proviso to Article 31-A of the Constitution of India. Surely, if the land, which has not been reserved for common purposes under the scheme and is Bachat or surplus land, i.e., the one which is still left out after providing the land in scheme for common purposes, if it is to vest with the State or Gram Panchayat, the same would be nothing but compulsory acquisition within the ceiling limit of an individual without payment of compensation and would offend second proviso to Article 31-A of the Constitution of India.” 51. As has been observed earlier, the Constitution Bench of this Court in Bhagat Ram, in no uncertain terms, held that till possession has changed under Section 24 of the Consolidation Act, the management and control does not vest in the Panchayat under Section 23-A of the said Act. It further held that not only does the management and control not vest but the rights of the holders are not modified or extinguished till persons have changed possession and entered into the possession of the holdings allotted to them under the scheme. 928 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Construing this, the Full Bench of the High Court in Jai Singh II held that, if the land which has not been reserved for common purposes under the scheme and is Bachat or surplus land, i.e., the land which is still left out after providing the land under the scheme for common purposes; if it is to vest with the State or Gram Panchayat, the same would be nothing but compulsory acquisition of land within the ceiling limit of an individual without payment of compensation and would offend the second proviso to Article 31-A of the Constitution of India.