[Emphasis supplied] 1266 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 44. Thus, while deciding the Article 14 challenge, this Court must decide on the following three issues: a. Whether Section 6A is underinclusive because it grants citizenship only to migrants from Bangladesh to Assam; b. Whether all Indian States bing Bangladesh form a ‘homogenous class’ for the purposes of the law such that Assam alone could not have been singled out; and c. Whether the cut-off date of 25 March 1971 is arbitrary. a. The legal regime under the Citizenship Act 1955 governing migrants 45. In this section, I will discuss the provisions of the Citizenship Act, in particular the provisions relating to migrants of Indian origin. There was a legal limbo on the acquisition of citizenship between the commencement of the Constitution and the enactment of the Citizenship Act in 1955. Parliament enacted the Citizenship Act to provide for the acquisition and determination of Indian citizenship. The Citizenship Act provides the following methods for acquiring citizenship, namely by: (a) birth;53 (b) descent;54 (c) registration;55 (d) naturalisation;56 and (e) incorporation of territory.57 Section 5(1) provides a fairly simple and easy method for acquiring citizenship. Citizenship could be acquired through registration if any of the following conditions are satisfied: a. Persons of Indian origin who are ordinarily resident in India and have been so resident for six months immediately before making an application for registration; b. Persons of Indian origin who are ordinarily resident in any country or place outside undivided India; c. Women who are, or have been, married to citizens of India; d. Minor children of persons who are citizens of India; and 53 Citizenship Act 1955; Section 3 54 Citizenship Act 1955; Section 4 55 Citizenship Act 1955; Section 5 56 Citizenship Act 1955; Section 6 57 Citizenship Act 1955; Section 7 [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1267 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 e. Persons of full age and capacity who are citizens of a country specified in the First Schedule. According to the provision, a person shall be deemed to be of Indian origin if he, or either of his parents, or of his grand-parents were born in undivided India.58 Thus, refugees from either West or East Pakistan would undoubtedly be covered within the meaning of the word ‘Indian origin’. Section 5(1) creates two classes with respect to persons of Indian origin. Section 5(1)(b) deals with persons of Indian Origin who are ordinarily resident in undivided India. Any person of Indian Origin who is an ordinary resident of any country other than West and East Pakistan can acquire citizenship through registration in terms of Section 5(1)(b). Indian origin migrants from either West or East Pakistan who were ordinarily resident in India for six months could acquire citizenship through registration in terms of Section 5(1)(a). Section 5(1)(e) enables a citizen of any of the countries listed in the First Schedule of the Act to acquire citizenship through registration. Pakistan was one of the countries listed in the Schedule.