[Paras 10,12,14-20] List of Acts West Bengal University Laws (Amendment) Act, 2012; West Bengal Laws (Amendment) Act, 2014; Calcutta University Act, 1979; Constitution of India; University Grants Commission Act, 1956; University Grants Commission’s Regulations, 2018. List of Keywords Universities; Appointment of Vice-Chancellors; State-aided Universities in West Bengal; Appointment of regular Vice- Chancellors; Constitution and composition of Search-cum- Selection Committees; Interim or ad-hoc Vice-Chancellors; Powers u/Art. 142; Appointment of Hon’ble Mr. Justice Uday Umesh Lalit, Former Chief Justice of India as Chairperson of the Search-cum- Selection Committees for Universities in West Bengal; Honorarium of Rs. 3 lakhs to Chairperson; Filing of Status Report. Case Arising From CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Special Leave To Appeal (Civil) No.17403 of 2023 From the and dated 28.06.2023 of the High Court at Calcutta in WPA(P) No.272 of 2023 [2024] 7 S.C.R. 71 The State of West Bengal v. Dr. Sanat Kumar Ghosh and Ors. Appearances for Parties Dr. Abhishek Manu Singhvi, Jaideep Gupta, Sr. Advs., Sanjay Basu, Ms. Astha Sharma, Amit Bhandari, Nipun Saxena, Piyush Agarwal, Ms. Shrivalli Kajaria, Srisatya Mohanty, Ms. Anju Thomas, Sanjeev Kaushik, Ms. Mantika Haryani, Shreyas Awasthi, Himanshu Chakravarty, Ms. Ripul Swati Kumari, Bhanu Mishra, Ms. Muskan Surana, Archit Adlakha, Ms. Soumya Saxena, Aditya Raj Pandey, Ms. Lihzu Shiney Konyak, Simranjeet Singh Rekhi, Ms. Pratibha Yadav, Abhijit Pattanaik, Advs. for the Petitioner. Gopal Shankarnarayan, Rana Mukherjee, Sr. Advs., Dr. Chaples Bandyopadhyay, Subhasish Bhowmick, Ms. Gargy Basu, Ms. Ananda Mayee, Ms. Manisha Pandey, Rahul Kushwaha, Ms. Neerja Sharma, Reegan S. Bel, Joydeep Mazumdar, P. Sil, B.K. Pandit, Ms. Shalini Kaul, Chandrashekhar A. Chakalabbi, Pijush Biswas, S.K. Pandey, Awanish Kumar, Anshul Rai, Abhinav Garg (For M/S. Dharmaprabhas Law Associates), Shyam D. Nandan, Rohit Bohra, Priyanshu Upadhyay, Viraat Tripathi, Abeer Gobind Shandilya, Anilendra Pandey, Manoj Ranjan Sinha, Deepak Sain, Ms. Nisha, Mrigank Prabhakar, Ms. Sakshi Banga, Anand Varma, Ayush Gupta, Soumya Dutta, Ms. Aditi Gupta, Kunal Chatterji, Ms. Maitrayee Banerjee, Rohit Bansal, Advs. for the Respondent. / of the Supreme Court Surya Kant, J. There are approximately [35] state-aided Universities in the State of West Bengal. The appointment of their Vice-Chancellors is the hallmark of this controversy. It seems that the Petitioner-State of West Bengal appointed 24 Vice-Chancellors in the year 2022. These appointments, along with the West Bengal University Laws (Amendment) Act, 2012 and the West Bengal Laws (Amendment) Act, 2014, were challenged before the High Court in a Public Interest Litigation. The High Court vide judgement dated 14.03.2023 held that the Search Committee constituted by the State Government for the selection of those 24 Vice-Chancellors did not have any Member nominated by the Chairman of the University Grants Commission (UGC) and since the said Search Committee was in violation of the UGC’s Act, the appointment of 24 Vice-Chancellors 72 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports was unsustainable in law. The Division Bench was upheld by this Court. 2. It further seems that the State of West Bengal thereafter made certain amendments in the State Universities Act in tune with the UGC’s Regulations, 2018.