Where, however, the parties have, as in the instant case, stipulated that the arbitration between them will be conducted in accordance with the ICC Rules, those rules, being in many respects self-contained or self-regulating and constituting a contractual code of procedure, will govern the conduct of the arbitration, except insofar as they conflict with the mandatory requirements of the proper law of arbitration, or of the procedural law [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1173 M/s Arif Azim Co. Ltd. v. M/s Micromax Informatics Fze of the seat of arbitration. [See the observation of Kerr, LJ. In Bank Mellat v. Helliniki Techniki SA. See also Craig, Park and Paulsson, International Chamber of Commerce Arbitration, 2nd edn. (1990).] To such an extent the appropriate courts of the seat of arbitration, which in the present case are the competent English courts, will have jurisdiction in respect of procedural matters concerning the conduct of arbitration. But the overriding principle is that the courts of the country whose substantive laws govern the arbitration agreement are the competent courts in respect of all matters arising under the arbitration agreement, and the jurisdiction exercised by the courts of the seat of arbitration is merely concurrent and not exclusive and strictly limited to matters of procedure. All other matters in respect of the arbitration agreement fall within the exclusive competence of the courts of the country whose laws govern the arbitration agreement. [See Mustil & Boyd, Commercial Arbitration, 2nd edn. ; Allen Redfern and Martin Hunter, Law & Practice of International Commercial Arbitration, 1986; Russel on Arbitration, 20th edn. (1982); Cheshire & North’s Private International Law, 11th edn. (1987). ]” (Emphasis supplied) 30. Thus, this Court for the first time in NTPC (supra) laid down the Doctrine of Concurrent jurisdiction in arbitration albeit in a limited sense inasmuch as the exercise of concurrent jurisdiction by two different but competent courts was limited only to matters of procedure and conduct of arbitration, and that the exercise of jurisdiction by courts at the seat or situs of arbitration over the arbitration agreement and its ancillaries was still regarded to be an exclusive jurisdiction. 31. The applicability of the Act, 1940 was again looked into by this Court in Sumitomo Heavy Industries Ltd. v. ONGC Ltd. & Ors. reported in (1998) 1 SCC 305. The said decision is in three-parts: - (i) First, it was held that as per Section 47 of the Act, 1940 the provisions of the said Act applies to all arbitrations and to all 1174 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports proceedings thereunder, and as such where the agreement to arbitrate is governed by the laws of India, then the said Act would be applicable. The relevant observations read as under: - “16. The law which would apply to the filing of the award, to its enforcement and to its setting aside would be the law governing the agreement to arbitrate and the performance of that agreement. Having regard to the clear terms of clause 17 of the contract between the appellant and the first respondent, we are in no doubt that the law governing the contract and the law governing the rights and obligations of the parties arising from their agreement to arbitrate, and, in particular, their obligation to submit disputes to arbitration and to honour the award, are governed by the law of India; nor is there any dispute in this behalf.