They go back to their province for various other purposes, and if this protection was not given to them when they were subject to the local Legislature and the local Legislature were to deny them the opportunity of conserving their culture, it would be very difficult for these cultural minorities to go back to their province and to get themselves assimilated to the original population to which they belonged. In to meet the situation of migration from one province to another, we felt it was desirable that such a provision should be incorporated in the Constitution.” [Emphasis supplied] 283. Thus, Article 29(1), while conferring the right to conserve, does not restrict itself only to the notion of a minority as understood in the technical sense but includes any group that may seek to conserve a distinct language, script or culture. 284. This interpretation of Article 29(1) has also been established by a 9-judge bench of this Court in Ahmedabad St. Xavier’s College Society v. State of Gujarat,187 wherein it held that: "6. It will be wrong to read Article 30(1) as restricting the right of minorities to establish and administer educational institutions of their choice only to cases where such institutions are concerned with language, script or culture of the minorities. The reasons are these. First, Article 29 confers the fundamental right on any section of the citizens which will include the majority section whereas Article 30(1) confers the right on all minorities. Second, Article 29(1) is concerned with language, script or culture, whereas Article 30(1) deals with minorities of the nation based on religion or language. Third, Article 29(1) is concerned with the 187 Ahmedabad St. Xavier’s College Society v. State of Gujarat (1974) 1 SCC 717, para 6. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1115 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 right to conserve language, script or culture, whereas Article 30(1) deals with the right to establish and administer educational institutions of the minorities of their choice. Fourth, the conservation of language, script or culture under Article 29(1) may be by means wholly unconnected with educational institutions and similarly establishment and administration of educational institutions by a minority under Article 30(1) may be unconnected with any motive to conserve language, script or culture. A minority may administer an institution for religious education which is wholly unconnected with any question of conserving a language, script or culture.” “238. […] Article 29(1) gives security to an interest: Article 30(1) gives security to an activity.” [Emphasis supplied] 285. The Petitioners herein have sought to protect their ‘culture’. While there is no single definition of the term, academicians and scholars have defined culture as “that complex whole which includes knowledge, belief, arts, morals, law, custom and any other capabilities and habits acquired by a man as a member of society”188 or as “the handiwork of man and as the medium through which he achieves his ends.”189 Hence, although a precise definition of the term ‘culture’ cannot explicitly be delineated, its comprehensive connotation is expansive, encompassing diverse elements inherent to a specific group or community.