The mens rea is to be gathered from the manner in which the pornographic material was found to be stored or in possession and any other material apart from such possession or storage that is indicative of any facilitation or actual transmission, propagation, display or distribution of such material. (IV) Section 15 sub-section (3) penalizes the storage or possession of any child pornographic material when done for any commercial purpose. To establish an offence under Section 15 sub-section (3), besides the storage or possession of the pornographic material involving a child, there must be some additional material or attending circumstances that may sufficiently indicate that the said storage or possession was done with the intent to derive any gain or benefit. To constitute an offence under sub-section (3) there is no requirement to establish that such gain or benefit had been actually realized. (V) Sub-section(s) (1), (2) and (3) respectively of Section 15 constitute independent and distinct offences. The three offences cannot coexist simultaneously in the same set of facts. They are distinct from each other and are not intertwined. This is because, the underlying distinction between the three sub- sections of Section 15 lies in the varying degree of culpable mens rea that is required under each of the three provisions. (VI) The police as well as the courts while examining any matter involving the storage or possession of any child pornography, finds that a particular sub-section of Section 15 is not attracted, then it must not jump to the conclusion that no offence at all is made out under Section 15 of the POCSO. If the offence does not fall within one particular sub-section of Section 15, then it must try to ascertain whether the same falls within the other sub-sections or not. (VII) Any act of viewing, distributing or displaying etc., of any child pornographic material by a person over the internet without [2024] 10 S.C.R. 289 Just Rights for Children Alliance & Anr. v. S. Harish & Ors. any actual or physical possession or storage of such material in any device or in any form or manner would also amount to ‘possession’ in terms of Section 15 of the POCSO, provided the said person exercised an invariable degree of control over such material, by virtue of the doctrine of constructive possession. (VIII) Any visual depiction of a sexually explicit act which any ordinary person of a prudent mind would reasonably believe to prima facie depict a child or appear to involve a child, would be deemed as ‘child pornography’ and the courts are only required to form a prima facie opinion to arrive at the subjective satisfaction that the material appears to depict a child from the perspective of any ordinary prudent person for any offence under the POCSO that relates to child pornographic material, such as Section 15. Such satisfaction may be arrived at from any authoritative opinion like a forensic science laboratory (FSL) report of such material or opinion of any expert on the material in question, or by the assessment of such material by the courts themselves.