The notification provides that right of pre-emption shall not exist in respect of sale of land falling in the areas of municipalities in Haryana. 15. As we have already noticed above, the term ‘land’ as such has not been defined in the 1913 Act as it is only the agricultural land which is defined. If the aforesaid notification is read with reference to the powers available with the State Government to grant exemption from pre-emption, it is evident that the same has been granted with reference to land only and not the immovable property. The fact that Section 8(2) of the 1913 Act uses two terms independently, clearly suggests that the land and the immovable property have different meanings. It is evident even from the language of Section 15 of the 1913 Act, which also provides right of pre-emption in respect of agricultural land and village immovable property. ‘Village immovable property’ has been defined to mean immovable property within the limits of a village other than the agricultural land. [2024] 2 S.C.R. 133 Jagmohan and Another v. Badri Nath and Others 16. From the aforesaid provisions of the 1913 Act, if read Scheme of the Act, it is abundantly clear that the land and the immovable property are two different terms. The immovable property is more than the land on which certain construction has been made. Guidance can also be taken from the definition of immovable property, as provided in Section 3(26) of the 1897 Act, which includes land, means something more than the land. 17. As the notification dated 08.10.1985 limits its application for taking away the right of pre-emption only with reference to sale of land falling in the areas of any municipality, the same will not come to the rescue of the appellants. In the case in hand, admittedly it is sale of immovable property, which is more than the land as a rolling mill had already been set up on the land, which was in occupation of the respondents as tenants. 18. The issue regarding limitation for filing of the suit is also misconceived if considered in the light of the facts of the case, the provisions of the 1961 Act and also that the same was not raised by the appellants before the lower Appellate Court or the High Court. 19. For the reasons mentioned above, we do not find any merit in the present appeal. The same is, accordingly, dismissed. Headnotes prepared by: Nidhi Jain Result of the case: Appeal dismissed.