3. In the short counter-affidavit filed by the bank, the scheme prevalent for grant of compassionate appointment vide Branch Circular No. 92/64 dated 17.03.1999 was referred, in particular, Clause 10(iv) thereof. Further reference was made regarding revised guidelines [2024] 5 S.C.R. 1307 Bank of India & Ors. v. Pankaj Srivastava vide letter No. 18/80/97-IR dated 19.02.2002 delegating the authority to the bank for appointment of dependents of deceased employee on compassionate ground relating to cases involving major penalty and not required to be referred to Government of India for clearance. Apropos the letter dated 20.06.2002 issued by Bank of India in Board Meeting, indicates that the Executive Director of the Bank is directed not to consider those cases which involve award/consideration/ contemplation of major penalty to employees on account of fraud/ forgery/misappropriation or due to any vigilance angle/negligence. The bank had also filed a supplementary affidavit before the writ Court which was also placed on record. 4. Learned Single Bench proceeded on the premise that as per the contents of the supplementary affidavit, no charge sheet was served upon prior to the death of the employee, and opined that the disciplinary proceedings were neither under contemplation nor initiated, however, the defence taken was not found plausible in terms of the policy. 5. On filing intra court appeal by bank, the High Court referred the scheme dated 17.03.1999 and analyzed the purport of Clause 10(iv) and the letter of the Bank of India in Board Meeting dated 20.06.2002. In reference thereto, the Court observed that the deceased was neither punished with major penalty nor such penalty was in contemplation against him prior to his death. It is said that father of the respondent died on 28.07.2000 and till his death he was not placed under suspension either due to contemplation or initiation of the departmental proceedings. As per averments in the counter-affidavit, the charge sheet was not issued, except to say that it was under preparation. However, the Division Bench in the impugned has opined as under: - “In our considered opinion, merely because the charge- sheet was said to be under preparation before the death of the father of the respondent – petitioner, it cannot be said that any major penalty was in contemplation. Thus, the aforesaid submission made by the learned counsel for the appellants does not appeal to this Court which is hereby rejected.” The Bench also denied to accede the plea raised relying on the of State of Himachal Pradesh and Anr. Vs. Shashi Kumar (2019) 3 SCC 653 and observed that in the present case, there is no delay either in applying or taking recourse before the 1308 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Court for appropriate directions to appoint the writ petitioner on compassionate ground and thus, accepted the reasonings as given by learned Single Judge. 6. Having heard learned counsel for the parties and on perusal of the scheme dated 17.03.1999, in particular, Clause 10(iv), which specifies the exceptions to recruitment of the dependents of the employees who died in harness, is relevant, and extracted for ready reference as under: - 10(iv).