Accordingly, a case was registered against the accused therein under Section 15 of the POCSO and Section 67B of the IT Act. When the final report came to be filed, the offence under Section 15 of the POCSO was dropped, and chargesheet was filed only for the offence under Section 67B of the IT Act. The accused preferred a quashing petition before the High Court of Kerala at Ernakulam on the ground that even if the materials in the chargesheet were taken at their face value, no ingredients were made out to constitute the offence under Section 67B of the IT Act. A learned Single Judge of the High Court whilst quashing the criminal proceedings held that in to attract the offence under Section 67B of the IT Act, the pornographic material in question must be voluntarily downloaded. It held that there should be an intention on the part of the accused to download any pornographic content in to view it so as to constitute an offence under Section 67B of the IT Act. The learned Single Judge further observed that as per the FSL report, the child pornographic videos had been accessed through the messaging app ‘Telegram’ wherein there is a possibility of automatic download of videos. Since there was no material to show that the accused therein had voluntarily downloaded or browsed the pornographic material in [2024] 10 S.C.R. 205 Just Rights for Children Alliance & Anr. v. S. Harish & Ors. question, no prima facie offence had been made out under Section 67B of the IT Act, and thus the High Court quashed the criminal proceedings. The relevant observations read as under: - “5. A perusal of the final report would show that the only allegation against the petitioner is that he downloaded and enjoyed material depicting children in obscene, indecent and sexually explicit manner from the application called ‘Telegram’. In to attract the offence under Section 67B of the IT Act, the videos or material has to be voluntarily downloaded into any device. In other words, there should be intention on the part of the petitioner to download the material in to view it. The definite case of the petitioner is that he did not download any offensive material. Even in Annexure A3 FSL report it is seen that the path of those images is from Android backup and the child pornographic videos were accessed through ‘Telegram’. The learned Additional DGP submitted that the contents transmitted in the ‘Telegram’ can be automatically downloaded in the mobile phone by default. Hence, it cannot be said that the petitioner has intentionally downloaded the material, considering the features of the ‘Telegram’ App. Since there is no material to show that the petitioner has browsed or downloaded child pornographic material, the offence under Section 67B of the IT Act is not attracted. Hence, no purpose will be served in proceedings with the matter further. Accordingly, the Crl.M.C is allowed. All further proceedings pursuant to Annexure A2 final report in Crime No.531/2020 of Melukavu Police Station now pending as C.C.No.257/2021 on the files of the Judicial Magistrate of the First Class, Erattupetta stands hereby quashed.” (Emphasis supplied) 66.