11.7.14 It may be also noted that the CESTAT, in its observed that the Revenue does not contest or dispute the fact that wherever BTS/ BSC site has to be relocated, all the equipment like BTS/BSC, microwave, UPS, tower, antenna etc., are required to be dismantled as individual components and then they are required to be moved from the existing site and reassembled at a new site. The CESTAT, however, observed that this involves damage to certain parts like cable [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1575 M/s Bharti Airtel Ltd. v. The Commissioner of Central Excise, Pune trays etc. which are embedded/fixed to the civil structure as also the BTS microwave equipment itself. Thus, all the components of the newly set up structure cannot be shifted as an illustration to the room housing the equipment. Apart from it, the CESTAT was of the opinion that the goods cannot be re-erected as in the previous place as requirement of each place is different. The structures cannot be shifted without damage. Apart from that various items and components are embedded in the earth. Therefore, the structure would not be considered as movable. 11.7.15 Therefore, the finding of the CESTAT is that even though the tower can be relocated to another site, it would entail damages to it. 11.7.16 There can no dispute that if the newly set up BTS/ BSC is relocated to another site it may entail certain damages. However, what is important to be noted is that the damage is qua the BTS/BSC or cables connecting the various components, but not the tower itself or PFB with which we are concerned. If the tower or the PFB can be dismantled and relocated in another site without causing any damage to either the tower or PFB, the mobility or the marketability of these items is retained. Thus, as far as the tower and PFBs are concerned, these exhibit the character of a movable property. 11.8 In view of the above decisions, we are of the opinion that merely because certain articles are attached to the earth, it does not ipso facto render these immovable properties. If such attachment to earth is not intended to be permanent but for providing support to the goods concerned and make their functioning more effective, and if such items can still be dismantled without any damage or without bringing any change in the nature of the goods and can be moved to market and sold, such goods cannot be considered immovable. 11.8.1 We may summarise some of the principles applied by the Courts in the decisions referred to above to determine the nature of the property as follows: 1. Nature of annexation: This test ascertains how firmly a property is attached to the earth. If the property is 1576 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports so attached that it cannot be removed or relocated without causing damage to it, it is an indication that it is immovable. 2. Object of annexation: If the attachment is for the permanent beneficial enjoyment of the land, the property is to be classified as immovable.