376 Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation v. GTL Infrastructure Limited (2017) 3 SCC 545 [19] [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1727 Mineral Area Development Authority & Anr. v. M/s Steel Authority of India & Anr. Etc. 297. The issue of taxing mineral bearing land under Entry 49 of List II also came up before this Court in India Cement (supra). To recap, in India Cement (supra) local cess levied by the State legislature was measured with respect to the land revenue payable to the Government. The definition of land revenue included royalty. Therefore, the issue before the seven-Judge Bench was whether the levy of cess on royalty was valid. Speaking for the majority, Justice Sabyasachi Mukharji observed that the cess was not on land but on royalty. The conclusion rested on the following reasons: (i) since royalty is income arising from land, it is not directly connected to the land; (ii) if royalty is the basis of taxation, no tax can be levied if no mining activities are carried on; and (iii) royalty cannot be used as a measure under Entry 49 of List II because it is exclusively relatable to Entry 50 of List II. Justice Mukharji held that H R S Murthy (supra) was “not a correct approach” to the issue. The decision in India Cement (supra) was followed by a three-Judge Bench in Orissa Cement (supra). 298. In Orissa Cement (supra), Section 5(1) of the Orissa Cess Act 1962 provided that the cess shall be assessed on the annual value of all lands calculated in the manner as provided. Section 5(2) provided for the levy of cess in case of mineral bearing land thus: “5. (2) The rate per year at which such cess shall be levied shall be – In case of lands held for carrying on mining operations in relation to any minerals, such per centum of the annual value as the State Government may, by notification, specify from time to time in relation to such mineral;” The “annual value” was defined in Section 7. And sub-section 3 provided that in case of lands held for carrying on mining operations, annual value shall be the royalty or as the case may be, the dead rent payable by the person carrying on mining operations to the government, or the Pit’s mouth value wherever it has been determined. 299. Speaking for the three-Judge Bench, Justice S Ranganathan observed that there is a difference in principle between a tax on royalties derived from land and a tax on land measured by reference to the income derived from land. The Court observed that the levy was not 1728 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports measured by income derived by the assessee from land, as was the case with lands other than mineral lands, but by royalty paid in respect of the land by the assessee to the lessor. The Court relied on India Cement (supra) to hold that royalty cannot be used as a measure to tax mineral-bearing land: “33. […] But the question, what is it that is really being taxed by the legislature?