11.6 That the prosecution led clinching evidence to establish the guilt of the accused and therefore, the trial Court was justified in convicting the accused-appellants as above. The High Court too did not commit any error while affirming the of the trial Court and upholding the conviction of the appellants herein. 11.7 That two competent Courts sifted and made detailed analysis of the entire evidence and thereafter, have recorded concurrent findings of facts, holding the accused appellants guilty of the charges, and thus, this Court should not feel persuaded to exercise its jurisdiction under Article 136 of the Constitution of India, so as to interfere in the well-reasoned s rendered by the trial Court and the High Court. 12. We have given our thoughtful consideration to the submissions advanced at bar and have perused the impugned s. We have minutely scanned the record with the assistance of the learned counsels representing the parties. Discussion and Conclusions: - 13. As per the prosecution case, the FIR (Exhibit-79) was registered on 4th May, 2011 at 11:00 pm on the basis of the oral statement given by the first informant Mohammad Arif Memon (PW-11) to S.N. Ghori, PSI (PW-17) at Krishna Medical Hospital, Karamsad. The first informant, Mohammad Arif Memon (PW-11) deposed in [2024] 8 S.C.R. 359 Allarakha Habib Memon Etc. v. State of Gujarat his testimony that an incident had taken place on 3rd May, 2011 in their colony wherein, allegedly Mohammad Sohail (deceased) made some imputations against Mohmedfaruk, thereby annoying the accused Mohmedfaruk @ Palak. On the next day, i.e., on 4th May, 2011 at about 8:30 pm, the first informant (PW-11) along with his cousin Mohammad Sohail (deceased) had gone to Shah petrol pump, near Bhalej Road overbridge for filling petrol in their scooter. Having refuelled the scooter, they proceeded towards the Bhalej overbridge for going home. At that point of time, Mohmedfaruk @ Palak came around and asked for the mobile number of Mohammad Hussain, a friend of the first informant (PW-11) who used to reside at Bangalore. The first informant (PW-11) stopped the vehicle and was trying to look for the number of Mohammad Hussain saved in his mobile at which point of time, the accused Amin@ Lalo Aarifbhai Memon and Allarakha Habib Memom also reached there. Accused Mohmedfaruk @ Palak insinuated as to why Mohammad Sohail had insulted him in the meeting convened earlier in the Memon colony to discuss the issue of water. Amin@ Lalo Aarifbhai Memon suddenly took out a big knife concealed on his person and inflicted a blow thereof on the head of Mohammad Sohail (deceased). Allarakha Habib Memon took out a gupti and after removing the cover thereof, inflicted a blow on the head of Mohammad Sohail who started running towards the petrol pump in to escape. Mohmedfaruk @ Palak also chased Mohammad Sohail, whereupon, the first informant (PW- 11) tried to intervene, but he was given a push by Mohmedfaruk @ Palak and fell down as a result. Accused Mohmedfaruk @ Palak also took out a big knife being carried by him and inflicted a blow thereof on the back of Mohammad Sohail after chasing him down.