In these circumstances, it was canvassed that the prosecution had proved the case beyond [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2271 V.D. Raveesha v. The State of Karnataka reasonable doubt. On these grounds, learned counsel prayed for dismissal of the instant petition. ANALYSIS, REASONING & CONCLUSION: 11. We have heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the evidence on record as well as the s of the Courts below. The issue before us is whether the petitioner is guilty of committing offences under Sections 406, 420, 468, 465 and 471 IPC, and if so, whether the sentences imposed on him by the Trial Court and confirmed by the Appellate Court and High Court call for interference. 12. The accused has not denied availment of the loan from the Company and the subsequent sale of the vehicle made in favour of Savithramma. However, he has taken the specific defence that he had cleared the loan and closed the account. PW1, the informant who was working as Manager in the Company, has specifically stated in his evidence that the accused had not cleared the loan and got the hypothecation cancelled on the basis of forged documents. He has stated that Exs. P8, P9 and P10 are not issued by the Company and has identified them as forged documents. PW1 has admitted the payment of 2-3 instalments made by the accused. As per the terms of the Agreement, if any customer commits default in payment of 5 instalments, the Company is empowered to seize the vehicle. He has further stated that the Investigating Officer collected the sample writings and signatures of the Divisional Manager of the Company as Exs. P13 and P14. Similarly, the writing of the accused was also collected as Exs. P15 and P16. These documents were sent to the handwriting expert for examination. This witness further stated that Exs. P11 and P12 are the standard sample receipt and No-Objection Certificate which the Company issues to its customers and these documents are prepared in duplicate and one copy is retained with the Company. It was further deposed that as per the Company’s rules, after clearance of the loan, the No-Objection Certificate is to be issued after one week. 13. PW3-Nagabhushana is a Legal Executive in the Company and he has supported the statement of PW1. PW5-Nandakumar is the Divisional Manager of the Company. According to this witness, after the repayment of the entire loan by the customer the concerned branch forwards the file seeking No-Objection Certificate from him 2272 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (PW5). He has specifically stated that the case-file pertaining to the accused’s loan has never come to his office and he had not issued Ex. P10 at any point of time. He has denied the signature on Ex. P10 as being his and deposed that the document is forged. 14. PW8-Venkataramaiah is a Junior Executive in the Company. He has deposed that during the relevant period when the accused is stated to have repaid the loan, he was working as a cashier in the relevant branch.