Case Arising From CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No. 1358 of 2024 From the and dated 17.10.2014 of the High Court of Judicature at Hyderabad for the State of Telangana and the State of Andhra Pradesh in CRLRC No. 656 of 2007 With Criminal Appeal No. 1359 of 2024 [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1689 Basamsetti Rama Devi v. The State of A.P. & Ors. Appearances for Parties Advs. for the Appellant: Ms. Kamini Jaiswal, Ms. Rani Mishra. Adv. for the Respondents: Guntur Pramod Kumar, Ms. Prerna Singh, Dhruv Yadav, Keshav Singh, D. Bharat Kumar, Aman Shukla, Rahul G. Tanwani, Amit Kumar, Ms. Yatika Gupta, M. Chandrakanth Reddy, Gopal Jha, Venkateswara Rao Anumolu, Sunny Kumar, Prateek Raushan, Puneet Aggarwal. / of the Supreme Court 1. “…but what happens after a person is arrested or detained? His troubles begin then. When he is detained or arrested and he is in the clutches of the police, he is alone in the world, and the forces of the police, the forces of the Crown and all other forces combine against him and he is helpless.” The above excerpt is from a Constituent Assembly Debate on 15th September, 1949 wherein Pandit Thakur D. Bhargava was flagging concerns to protect the detained individuals from the tyranny of police while debating amendments to the rights of detained persons. Even though the said concern was expressed almost 76 years ago, the trepidation surrounding police custody and the helplessness that it entails still echo as true as ever. The case at hand unfortunately is a precise example of uncertainty and vagaries that might follow once a person is taken into custody. Even though our Constitution and procedural laws stipulate sufficient safeguards to protect the rights of detainees, there comes every now and then a case such as instant one which leads to a plethora of unanswered questions, unending misery of aggrieved persons for decades and is enough to shake the public confidence in police force. In such a regrettable state of affairs, it becomes the solemn duty of the Courts of law to uncover the truth, take to task every offending individual and ensure that the basic rights of every human are preserved, be it a detainee, an accused or a convict. However, the set of events that unfold here woefully depict how the judiciary also has failed in its 1690 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports commitment to uphold justice and gave a clean chit to the accused persons before a trial could even begin, in an offence as gruesome as custodial death. 2. The present appeals have been preferred by the respective original complainants against the common impugned and dated 17.10.2014 passed by the High Court of Judicature at Hyderabad for the State of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh in Criminal Revision Petitions being Crl. R.C. No. 656 of 2007 and Crl. R.C. No. 1402 of 2009. 3. The two appeals arise from different factual matrix and involve distinct parties but were heard and disposed of together by the High Court since they involved the similar issue relating to quashing of criminal complaint against the police officials in matters of custodial death.