Suppression of a material fact on the part of the first respondent is indeed discernible which, if pleaded, could have altered the outcome of the writ petition. A very innocuous prayer was, however, made for effecting mutation in terms of the final decree, without disclosing that mutation was being asked for in respect of a piece of land over which the State itself had been claiming title and that the civil suit was withdrawn faced with such a claim of the State. A writ court being a court of equity, it is needless to observe that the parties are bound to approach the court with clean hands. Inasmuch as the aforesaid fact of withdrawal was not brought to the writ court’s notice, an egregious breach of such principle is noticed. Suppression of such a material fact, as in the present case, could legitimately be argued to amount to a fraud on court. There can hardly be two opinions that such breach would strike at the very root of the matter and since a point of fraud can be raised even collaterally, if the point of fraud had been raised, the writ petition itself could have been held non-maintainable. 88. However, since our decision is premised on the reasons assigned while answering the issues formulated in paragraph 8 (supra), we wish to say no more. CONCLUSION 89. For the foregoing reasons, we conclude that the High Court exceeded both its review and contempt jurisdiction. The impugned is, thus, set aside, and the and of the Division Bench (original) in the contempt appeal and the letters patent appeal is restored. 90. The appeals succeed and are allowed. All pending applications stand disposed of. Parties shall, however, bear their own costs. 91. Determination of the title to the subject land, adjudication on the validity of the decrees in favour of the respondents, or decision on any other contentious issue are left open for a forum of competent jurisdiction to embark upon, if approached by any of the parties. None [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1123 S. Tirupathi Rao v. M. Lingamaiah & Ors. of the observations of this Court, or of the High Court in the impugned should be treated as an expression of opinion in any particular matter or on any factual aspect whatsoever. CIVIL APPEAL NOS. ___________ OF 2024 [ARISING OUT OF SLP (CIVIL) NOS. 19748-19749 OF 2022] 92. Leave granted. 93. These appeals assail the common and dated 26th September, 2022 of the High Court dismissing petitions56 preferred by the appellant, seeking recall of the and dated 27th April, 2022 of the Division Bench (review). The High Court held that the recall petitions were review petitions in disguise; thus, the impugned and was upheld in view of the specific statutory bar of XLVII Rule 9, CPC. 94. The and 27th April, 2022 having been set aside for the reasons assigned above while allowing the civil appeals arising out of SLP (Civil) Nos. 19748-19749 of 2022, the of the High Court dated 26th September, 2022 assailed in these appeals upholding the same can no longer stand.