An undertaking or an assurance given by a lawyer based upon which the court decides upon a particular course of action would definitely fall within the confines of “undertaking” as stipulated under Section 2(b) of the Act, 1971 and the breach of which would constitute “civil contempt”. As held in M. v. Home (supra) relied upon by this Court in Rama Narang (supra) that if a party or solicitor or counsel on his behalf, so as to convey to the court a firm conviction that an undertaking is being given, that party will be bound and it will be no answer that he did not think that he was giving it or that he was misunderstood. The breach of an undertaking given to a court by a person in a pending proceeding on the faith of which the court sanctions a particular course of action is misconduct amounting to contempt.” (emphasis added) 35. The expression “willful disobedience” has been discussed by this Court at some length in Niaz Mohammad and Others v. State of Haryana and Others20 as below : “9. Section 2(b) of the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971 (hereinafter referred to as ‘the Act’) defines “civil contempt” to mean “wilful disobedience to any , decree, direction, , writ or other process of a court …”. Where the contempt consists in failure to comply with or carry out an of a court made in favour of a party, it is a civil 20 [1994] Supp. 3 SCR 720 : (1994) 6 SCC 332 434 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports contempt. The person or persons in whose favour such or direction has been made can move the court for initiating proceeding for contempt against the alleged contemner, with a view to enforce the right flowing from the or direction in question. But such a proceeding is not like an execution proceeding under Code of Civil Procedure. The party in whose favour an has been passed, is entitled to the benefit of such . The court while considering the issue as to whether the alleged contemner should be punished for not having complied with and carried out the direction of the court, has to take into consideration all facts and circumstances of a particular case. That is why the framers of the Act while defining civil contempt, have said that it must be wilful disobedience to any , decree, direction, , writ or other process of a court. Before a contemner is punished for non-compliance of the direction of a court, the court must not only be satisfied about the disobedience of any , decree, direction or writ but should also be satisfied that such disobedience was wilful and intentional. The civil court while executing a decree against the -debtor is not concerned and bothered whether the disobedience to any , or decree, was wilful. Once a decree has been passed it is the duty of the court to execute the decree whatever may be consequence thereof. But while examining the grievance of the person who has invoked the jurisdiction of the court to initiate the proceeding for contempt for disobedience of its , before any such contemner is held guilty and punished, the court has to record a finding that such disobedience was wilful and intentional.