Therefore, it will not be just enough for the Court to look into the averments made in the FIR/ complaint alone for the purpose of ascertaining whether the necessary ingredients to constitute the alleged offence are disclosed or not. In frivolous or vexatious proceedings, the Court owes a duty to look into many other attending circumstances emerging from the record of the case over and above the averments and, if need be, with due care and circumspection try to read in between the lines. The Court while exercising its jurisdiction under Section 482 of the CrPC or Article 226 of the Constitution need not 1 [2023] 11 SCR 313 : 2023 SCC OnLine SC 951. 68 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports restrict itself only to the stage of a case but is empowered to take into account the overall circumstances leading to the initiation/registration of the case as well as the materials collected in the course of investigation. Take for instance the case on hand. Multiple FIRs have been registered over a period of time. It is in the background of such circumstances the registration of multiple FIRS assumes importance, thereby attracting the issue of wreaking vengeance out of private or personal grudge as alleged.” 8.1 Keeping in mind the broad principle as enunciated in the above referred precedent, we will now examine the Complaint/FIR challenged by the appellants in the Section 482 proceeding. 9. The FIR in this case is rather unique, in as much as the complainant has chosen not to involve her husband in the criminal proceedings, particularly when all the allegations relate to demand of dowry. It appears that the complainant and her husband have distributed amongst themselves, the institution of civil and criminal proceedings against the appellants. While the husband institutes the civil suit, his wife, the complainant has chosen to initiate criminal proceedings. Interestingly, there is no reference of one proceeding in the other. On 27.02.2013, the husband filed the Special Civil Suit No. 35 of 2013 in Anand against the three appellants, i.e. his father, stepmother and stepbrother seeking for a declaration that the property is ancestral in nature and that the father has no right to alienate or dispose of the property. In that suit the husband also sought a declaration that he is entitled to use the trademark of the family business. Though the written statement filed by the appellants in the suit is brought on record, we are not inclined to examine the details of the civil dispute, but suffice to note the existence of a highly contentious civil dispute between the complainant’s husband at one hand and her father-in-law and others on the other hand. 9.1 While the husband chose to institute the civil suit on 27.02.2013, the complainant filed the present criminal complaint on 01.03.2013 alleging demand of dowry and threat by appellants that she and her husband will be denied a share in the property. The provocation for the Complaint/FIR is essentially the property dispute between father and son.