In the writ petition filed by the appellants, the learned Single Judge took the view that the transactions do not constitute transfer of right to use goods. In the writ appeals preferred by the respondent, the Division Bench interfered. The learned senior counsel submitted that the expression ‘transfer of right to use any goods’ has been the subject matter of several decisions of this Court. He urged that mere execution of a contract without passing the domain of the goods does not result in the transfer of the right to use any goods, and therefore, it will not be a ‘deemed sale’. He also relied on this Court’s decisions in the cases of BSNL5 and Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Limited6. He submitted that the test consistently applied by this Court is that there can be a transfer of the right to use goods provided that there is a parting with possession of goods for the limited period of its use. During the said period, the effective control of goods must be transferred. By relying upon several clauses of the agreements, he submitted that there is no transfer of the right to use the tank trucks under the contract. He pointed out that the effective control over the vehicles remains with the transporter and is never transferred to the appellants. Relying upon the decision of Allahabad High Court in the case of Ahuja Goods Agency & Anr. v. State of Uttar Pradesh & Ors.9. He submitted that there is a consistent judicial opinion that hiring vehicles does not amount to a transfer of effective control and possession. 9 (1997) 106 STC 540 = 1997 SCC online All 1381 [2024] 1 S.C.R. 497 M/s. K.P. Mozika v. Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Ltd. and Ors. 10. He submitted that a transaction can be subject to either service or sales tax, and the said transaction cannot be subjected to both taxing statutes. He relied upon a decision of this Court in the case of Imagic Creative (P) Ltd. v. Commissioner of Commercial Taxes & Ors.10 11. Therefore, he relied upon the decision of this Court in the case of Gannon Dunkerley & Co2. He pointed out why the Law Commission suggested an amendment to the Constitution of India by incorporating clause 29A under Article 366. He submitted that under clause 29A of Article 366, it is provided that the transfer, delivery, or supply of goods shall be deemed to be a sale of those goods by the person making the transfer, delivery, or supply. He relied upon the decision in the case of BSNL5. He submitted that whether the contract falls in one category or the other is to be decided by finding out the substance of the contract. He also pointed out the decision of this Court in the case of Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Ltd.6 for dealing with the issue of effective control. He heavily relied upon the opinion of the Hon’ble Dr. Justice A.R. Laxmanan in the case of BSNL5. 12. The learned senior counsel relied upon several clauses in the agreement executed by the appellant.