14 if the provision may lead to differential application on similarly situated persons – Manifest arbitrariness also encompasses the aspect of temporal unreasonableness that a statute may acquire with the efflux of time – 978 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports While the test of manifest arbitrariness entails a two-prong test which requires that first, there is a reasonable classification based on an intelligible differentia; and second that such classification has a rational nexus with the object sought to be achieved by such classification – Test of temporal unreasonableness, on the other hand, would involve a further examination into whether the said two prongs have continued to remain relevant with the passage of time – Test of temporal unreasonableness would require examining the provision in two different time frames-first, when the provision was enacted, and second when such provision comes to be challenged on the ground of temporal unreasonableness – Even if a provision passes the two prong test in the first time-frame, it may still fail the test in the subsequent time-frame if the efflux of time renders either the classification, or the object sought to be achieved by such classification, or both as arbitrary and thus violative of Art. 14 – This could be said to be the third prong in the test of manifest arbitrariness u/Art. 14 as envisaged by the doctrine of temporal unreasonableness. [Paras 171, 177, 179, 180] Words and phrases – Term temporal Unreasonableness – Meaning of. (per Pardiwala, J.) [Paras 129-130] Doctrines/Principles – Doctrine of temporal Unreasonableness – Meaning. (per Pardiwala, J.) [Para 130] Scope of Judicial Review u/Art. 14 Judicial Review – Scope of, u/Art. 14 – Grounds of unreasonable classification and arbitrariness – Two-prong test – Scope of judicial review of under-inclusive provisions – Elucidated. (per Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI.) [Paras 58-68] Limits to judicial review Judicial review – Concept of – Limits to judicial review – Judicial review of government policies – Validity of s.6A, hovering around foreign policy, if excluded from the purview of judicial review: Held: (per Surya Kant, J.) (for himself and for M.M. Sundresh and Manoj Misra, JJ.) Judicial review of government policies encapsulates determining whether they infringe upon the fundamental rights of citizens, contravene constitutional provisions, violate statutory regulations, or display manifest arbitrariness, capriciousness, or mala fides – Focus of judicial scrutiny is limited [2024] 10 S.C.R. 979 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 to legality of the policy, excluding any evaluation of its wisdom or soundness – Court cannot compel the government to formulate a policy, evaluate alternatives or assess the effectiveness of existing policies – This constraint stems from the principle of separation of powers, where the Court lacks the democratic mandate and institutional expertise to delve into such matters – Thus, while the Court can invalidate a policy, it lacks the authority to create one – Court can check the constitutional validity of a policy, particularly so when it is elevated as an act of the Legislature – Challenge as regards the validity of s.6A, cannot be dismissed at the threshold, on the ground of judicial review – Citizenship Act, 1955 – s.6A.