The said institutions did not aspire to attain “university” status and were content with operating as affiliated colleges to the Universities established by legislation by legislative bodies. 207. Parallelly, prior to the prohibition contained in the UGC Act, 1956, there existed a period wherein the legal landscape lacked statutory constraints preventing the establishment of universities without specific legislative enactments. During this time, it was within the prerogative of any collective body or individuals to establish educational institutions in the nature of universities without legislative intervention. 208. In fact, in the absence of a provision like Section 23 of the UGC Act, 1956, it was open to such institutions to even adopt the titles such as “university” or in some cases “vidyapeeth” or “jamia” asserting their capability to grant degrees. This era witnessed the emergence of numerous universities, predating independence, whose degrees did not carry recognition from the British Government for eligibility in employment within Crown services. Despite this absence of official recognition, many of these institutions rose to prominence, eventually becoming leading national educational establishments. 209. Therefore, the authorities behind the MAO College, had three options : i. First, request the British Indian Government to establish a university, with the classical British Indian Government’s control as in case of other Universities, through a legislation passed by the Imperial Legislative Council or Provincial Legislature. 2014 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports In the said eventuality, the advantage was that the institutions degrees could be recognised by the British Indian Government [and perhaps the world over] however, it would require foregoing of the character and the control over the institution. ii. Second, continue as the MAO College, affiliated to the Universities already in existence, and persist as a college only [without granting its own degrees] while preserving its control and character as a denominational institution subject to regulatory controls that came along with the affiliation with a legislation-based University; iii. Thirdly, the MAO College had the option to establish a university/ Vidyapeeth/jamia under its own name or any other name without the need for government enactment, albeit without recognition from the British Indian Government. The institution could have chosen to maintain its character and avoid British governmental control. 210. The history of the events as mentioned above, is witness to the decisions taken and path chosen by the stakeholders and the same would have a bearing on the issue whether the AMU was established as a minority institution or not. k. the questIon of admInIstratIon and the 1920 act 211. As stated above, “administration” and its link with the question of establishment is to be ascertained by locating who exercised the “choice” with regard the crucial aspects of an institution and to what extent was the minority’s decision making expressed in the tangible outcomes at the time of establishment. As stated above, it is at this point that the “choice” of the minority marries itself with the “administration” by the minority community. As stated above, the choice can be said to have been exercised by the minority community, if the minority community is present in some higher echelons of the administrative setup.