In the first case, the industry was to be under “the total and exclusive control of the Union and be governed by the IDRA and the rules and regulations made thereunder”. As far as the second case is concerned, it was noted that “they shall be under the total and exclusive control of the States in all respects and at all stages including the establishment of the distillery”. 9.8.11 It was thus noted that Synthetics and Chemicals (7J) was mainly concerned with “industrial alcohol”, i.e., denatured rectified spirit. This Court raised several questions with regard to the supervision of the manufacture of country liquor or IMFL, which is not the concern of the Union but the bulk of the rectified spirit produced in many States is meant for and is utilised for obtaining or manufacturing potable liquors. The question was then at what stage, would the State intervene in the process of manufacture of potable liquor - whether until the stage of potable liquor is reached, or whether there has to be supervision even at a stage prior thereto by the States. This Court took into consideration the fact that under Entry 33(a) - List III, the States do have the power to legislate on this field, provided the field is not occupied by any law made by the Union. Further, in the interests of law, public health, public revenue and also in the interests of proper delineation of the spheres of the Union and the States, it was noted that there has to be a clear line of demarcation drawn at the stage of clearance or removal of rectified spirit. In the matter of the levies, when the removal or clearance is for industrial purpose, the levy of duties of excise and all other control is with the Union but when the removal/clearance is for obtaining [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2097 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons or manufacturing potable liquors, the levy of duties and all other control is with the States. It was observed that there is a need for joint control and supervision of the process of manufacture of rectified spirit and its use and disposal. Hence, certain observations were made by way of elaboration by taking into consideration the nature of the product and its use, namely supply for industries or “industrial alcohol” or use for potable purposes and the circumstances of misuse of rectified spirit (for industrial purposes) by diverting it for potable purposes, which are as under: (1) (a) So far as industries engaged in manufacturing rectified spirit meant exclusively for supply to industries (industries other than those engaged in obtaining or manufacture of potable liquors), whether after denaturing it or without denaturing it, are concerned, they shall be under the total and exclusive control of the Union and be governed by the IDR Act and the rules and regulations made thereunder. In other words, where the entire rectified spirit is supplied for such industrial purposes, or to the extent it is so supplied, as the case may be, the levy of excise duties and all other control including establishment of distillery shall be that of the Union.