Hence, question of getting the benefit of any extended period of limitation by the appellant for issuing show cause cum demand notice and thereafter passing adjudication did not arise. In the above background, the Judicial Member set aside the in original dated 25.02.2013. 5.8. However, the Technical Member did not agree with the view taken by the Judicial Member. He held that no manufacture had taken place in the Taloja unit of the respondent both in respect of the goods manufactured at Jammu as well as the imported goods. He further held that the activity of the respondent in bringing the goods from Jammu to Taloja and thereafter to affix labels so as to avail the benefit of Note 3 to Chapter 18 was not known to the department. Therefore, it was a case of misrepresentation of facts with the intent to avail rebate fraudulently. Consequently, the extended period of limitation was available to the department. That being the position, the Technical Member was of the view that the in original was justified on all counts and dismissed the appeal. 5.9. In view of the difference of opinion between the Judicial Member and the Technical Member, the matter was placed before the President of CESTAT to nominate a third member to resolve the same. 5.10. Thereafter, pursuant to the passed by the President, the matter was placed before the third member to resolve the difference of opinion between the Judicial Member and the Technical Member. [2024] 5 S.C.R. 279 Commissioner of Central Excise Belapur v. Jindal Drugs Ltd. 5.11. After hearing the matter, the third member passed the dated 16.04.2015. Referring to Note 3 to Chapter 18, both prior to 01.03.2008 and post 01.03.2008, the third member noted that Parliament has consciously substituted the word ‘or’ in place of ‘and’ appearing between the words ‘labelling or re-labelling of containers’ and ‘repacking from bulk packs to retail packs’ to widen the scope of Note 3. According to the third member, any one of the three activities referred to in Note 3 i.e. (i) labelling or re-labelling, (ii) packing or repacking from bulk and retail packing and (iii) adoption of any other treatment to render a product marketable would be deemed to be manufacture. He held that the activity undertaken by the respondent at its Taloja unit i.e. labelling amounted to manufacture. He negated the stand of the revenue that labelling or re-labelling should enhance marketability of the goods as contrary to the plain reading of Note 3. He, therefore, agreed with the Judicial Member that the activity of labelling undertaken by the respondent is covered by Note 3 to Chapter 18 of the Central Excise Tariff Act which amounts to manufacture. Further, he also recorded a finding of fact based on the evidence on record that respondent had repacked the imported cocoa butter in new cartons and exported them after labelling. He thus fully concurred with the view expressed by the Judicial Member that the activity of labelling undertaken by the respondent amounted to manufacture in terms of Note 3 to Chapter 18 of the Central Excise Tariff Act.