Siraj (supra), this Court distinguished its earlier decision in P.K. Ramachandra Iyer v. Union of India30 with the following reasoning: “65. … In Ramachandra Iyer case Rule 14 (…..) mandated that the marks at the written test and the oral examination have to be aggregated and the merit list prepared on the basis of such aggregation of marks. Therefore, the marks obtained at the written test and the oral test were both relevant whatever be the percentage, in the preparation of the merit list. Nevertheless, the examining board prescribed minimum for viva voce test and eliminated those who failed to get the minimum. Resultantly, candidates who would have found a place in the rank list based on the aggregate of the marks for the two tests stood eliminated because they did not get the minimum in the test. This was contrary to Rule 14 and that was the reason why the prescription of minimum marks for viva voce test was held invalid in Ramachandra Iyer case.” 28. The decision in K.H. Siraj (supra) makes it clear that if the rules governing recruitment provides latitude to the competent authority to devise its procedure for selection it may do so subject to the rule against arbitrariness enshrined in Article 14 of the Constitution. Even K. Manjusree (supra) does not proscribe fixing minimum marks for either the written test, or the interview, as an eligibility criterion for selection. What K. Manjusree (supra) does is to regulate the stage at which it could be done. This is clear from the decision of this Court in Hemani Malhotra v. High Court of Delhi.31 In Hemani (supra) a contention was raised that the decision in K. Manjusree (supra) 30 [1984] 2 SCR 200 : (1984) 2 SCC 141 31 [2008] 5 SCR 1066 : (2008) 7 SCC 11 [2024] 12 S.C.R. 59 Tej Prakash Pathak & Ors. v. Rajasthan High Court & Ors. should be regarded as per incuriam for not having noticed earlier decisions in Ashok Kumar Yadav v. State of Haryana32 as well as K.H. Siraj (supra). Rejecting the contention, this Court observed: "16. … what is laid down in the decisions relied upon by the learned counsel for the respondent is that it is always open to the authority making the rules regulating the selection to prescribe the minimum marks both for examination and interview. The question whether introduction of the requirement of minimum marks for interview after the entire selection process was completed was valid or not, never fell for consideration of this Court in the decisions referred to by the learned counsel for the respondent. While deciding the case of K Manjusree the Court noticed the decisions in P K Ramachandra Iyer v. Union of India, Umesh Chandra Shukla v. Union of India and Durgacharan Misra v. State of Orissa, and has thereafter laid down the proposition of law….. . On the facts and in the circumstances of the case this Court is of the opinion that the decisions rendered by this court in K. Manjusree can neither be regarded as per incuriam nor good case is made out by the respondent for referring the matter to the larger Bench for reconsidering the said decision.” 29.