Ltd & Ors. Vs Union of India [supra] 4 Union of India Vs Prakash P. Hinduja (2003) 6 SCC 195 [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1495 Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corp. Ltd. v. Awaz & Ors. Commission to the Reserve Bank of India to issue directions on Benchmark Rates of Interest, is an attempt to usurp the jurisdiction, and can in no manner be considered lawful and tenable. 16. On merits, it is the assertion of the Appellants that the rates of interest formulated by them, are in conformity with the directions of the Reserve Bank of India. As a matter of policy pursuant to the liberalization of the economy and consequent deregulation of interest rates, the RBI vide Circulars dated 21.10.2003 and 02.07.2007 provided that: “Credit card dues are in the nature of non-priority sector personal loans, and as such, banks are free to determine the rate of interest on credit card dues without reference to their BPLR and regardless of the size” The same circulars also gave comprehensive directions on charging interest rates on advances and the Benchmark Prime Lending Rate (BPLR) as under: “Benchmark Prime Lending Rate (BPLR) and Spreads: 2.2.1 With effect from October 18, 1994, RBI has deregulated the interest rates on advances above Rs. 2 lakhs and the rates of interest on such advances are determined by the banks themselves subject to BPLR and Spread guidelines. For credit limits up to Rs. 2 lakh banks should charge interest not exceeding their BPLR. Keeping in view the international practice, and to provide operational flexibility to commercial banks in deciding their lending rates, banks can offer loans at below BPLR to exporters or other creditworthy borrowers, including public enterprises, on the basis of a transparent and objective policy approved by their respective Boards. Banks will continue to declare the maximum spread of interest rates over BPLR. 2.2.3. Banks are free to determine the rates of interest without reference to BPLR and regardless of the size in respect of loans for purchase of consumer durables, loans to individuals against shares and debenture/bonds, other non-priority sector personal loans, etc. as per details given in paragraph 2.4. 1496 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 2.4. Freedom to fix Lending Rates: 2.4.1 Banks are free to determine the rates of interest without reference to BLPR and regardless of the size………………..” 17. The said circulars clarify that credit card dues constitute non-priority sector personal loans and Banks are free to determine the rates of interest, without reference to PLR and regardless of their size. The Reserve Bank of India had given this discretion to the banks to determine rates of interest, as per the market forces, while maintaining transparency with the credit card holders. The Appellants assert that they have duly complied with all the requirements of the Reserve Bank of India, and none of the practices adopted by them, run contrary to the intent or directions of the Reserve Bank of India and its circulars. 18. The rates of interest on credit card dues are neither usurious nor do they constitute a practice that is unfair, arbitrary or unreasonable.