The intention of the legislature was to simplify the licensing framework for larger commercial vehicles and at the same time not interdict a LMV license holder to also drive a transport vehicle. The additional requirements for medium and heavy vehicles are also evident from unamended sub-section 1 of Section 7 which reads as under: “Restrictions on the granting of learner’s license for certain vehicles- (1) No person shall be granted a learner’s license- (a) to drive a heavy goods vehicle unless he has held a driving license for atleast 2 years to drive a light motor vehicle or for at least one year to drive a medium goods vehicle. (b) to drive a medium goods vehicle or a medium passenger vehicle unless he has held a driving license for atleast one year to drive a light motor vehicle.” [emphasis supplied] 43. The amended Section 7(1) however, states that: ‘7. Restrictions on the granting of learner’s licences for certain vehicles:- [(1) No person shall be granted a learner’s licence to drive a transport vehicle unless he has held a driving licence to drive a light motor vehicle for at least one year:] 588 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Therefore, the classes of medium and heavy vehicles stood subsumed under ‘transport vehicles’. Our view on the LMV licence holder’s capability to drive a transport vehicle is also fortified by the unamended and amended Rule 10 of the MV Rules: Rule 10 (pre-amendment) Rule 10 (post-amendment) “10. Application for learner’s 10. Application for learner’s licence.— licence.— An application for the grant of a An application for the grant of a learner’s licence shall be made in learner’s licence shall be made in Form 2 and shall be accompanied Form 2 and shall be accompanied by,— by,— (a) save as otherwise provided (a) save as otherwise provided in in rule 6, a medical certificate rule 6, a medical certificate in in [Form 1-A]. [Form 1-A]. (b) three copies of the applicant’s (b) three copies of the applicant’s recent 28 [passport size recent 28 [passport size photograph] photograph], (c) appropriate fee as specified (c) appropriate fee as specified in rule 32, in rule 32, (d) in the case of an application (d) in the case of an application for for medium goods vehicle, transport vehicle excluding a medium passenger E-rickshaw or E-Cart, the motor vehicle, a heavy driving licence held by the goods vehicle or a heavy applicant] passenger vehicle, the [(e) proof of residence driving license held by the applicant.” (f) proof of age 44. The insertion of a separate class of ‘Transport Vehicle’ has led to some confusion in legal interpretation. In National Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Annappa Irappa Nesaria31 (for short “Annappa Irappa Nesaria”), the issue before this Court was whether the driver of a Matador van weighing 3,500 kgs which had a ‘goods carriage’ permit could drive a ‘transport vehicle’, if he had a LMV license. The van, which was insured by the appellant, met with an accident on 9.12.1999, causing 31 [2008] 1 SCR 1061 : (2008) 3 SCC 464 [2024] 11 S.C.R.