[Paras 40b, 41d, e] Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957 – s.9 – Royalties in respect of mining leases – Constitution of India – Entry 50 List II Seventh Schedule – Expression “subject to any limitations imposed by Parliament by law relating to mineral development” in Entry 50 List II, if pro tanto subjects the Entry to Entry 54 List I, which is a non-taxing general Entry – If there is any departure from the general scheme of distribution of legislative powers as enunciated in MPV Sundararamier’s case: Held: (per Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI) (for himself and for Hrishikesh Roy, Abhay S Oka, J.B. Pardiwala, Manoj Misra, Ujjal Bhuyan, Satish Chandra Sharma and Augustine George Masih, JJ.) – Legislative power to tax mineral rights vests with the State legislatures – Parliament does not have legislative competence to tax mineral rights under Entry 54 List I, it being a general entry – Since the power to tax mineral rights is enumerated in Entry 50 List II, Parliament cannot use its residuary powers with respect to that subject-matter – Entry 50 List II does not constitute an exception to the position of law laid down in M P V Sundararamier’s case. [Para 342b, c, d] – Held: (per B.V. 1552 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Nagarathna, J.) (Dissenting) Expression “subject to any limitations imposed by Parliament by law relating to mineral development” in Entry 50 List II pro tanto subjects the Entry to Entry 54 List I – Use of the expression “any limitations” would mean that the taxing Entry would be subject to a non-taxing or general Entry such as in Entry 54 List I which could also be termed as a regulatory Entry – Thus, there is a departure from the general scheme of distribution of legislative powers as enumerated in MPV Sundararamier’s case insofar as Entry 50 List II read with Entry 54 List I is concerned which is unique to Entry 50 List II – This is having regard to the significance of Entry 54 List I which also overrides Entry 23 List II – Entry 50 List II is an exception to the position of law laid down in MPV Sundararamier’s case. [Paras 40c, 41b] Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957 – ss.9, 2 – Royalties in respect of mining leases – Constitution of India – Entry 49 List II Seventh Schedule – Scope of Entry 49 List II – Entry 49 List II, if covers tax involving a measure based on the value of the produce of land – Constitutional position, if different qua mining land on account of Entry 50 List II read with Entry 54 List I: Held: (per Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI) (for himself and for Hrishikesh Roy, Abhay S Oka, J.B. Pardiwala, Manoj Misra, Ujjal Bhuyan, Satish Chandra Sharma and Augustine George Masih, JJ.) State legislatures have legislative competence u/Art.246 read with Entry 49 List II to tax lands which comprise of mines and quarries – Mineral-bearing land falls within the description of “lands” under Entry 49 List II – Yield of mineral bearing land, in terms of the quantity of mineral produced or the royalty, can be used as a measure to tax the land under Entry 49 List II – Decision in Goodricke’s case clarified to this extent [Para 342 e, f] – Held: (per B.V. Nagarathna, J.)