Further, it was also alleged that these cannot be said to be “inputs” for providing mobile service within the meaning of Rule 2(k). 9.3 The response of the Assessee in respect of the said show cause notice was that towers and parts of towers are “capital goods” and “inputs” for which CENVAT credit is admissible for the output service rendered by the Assessee. 9.4 In regard to the prefabricated buildings (PFBs), the Assessee explained that these are also eligible for CENVAT credit as “capital goods” and in any case as “inputs” for providing mobile telecom service to the subscribers. It was contended that the aforesaid articles are covered within the meaning of “capital goods” under Rule 2(a)(A) and “inputs” under Rule 2(k). 9.5 It was also contended on behalf of the Assessee that credit in respect of “inputs” can be availed immediately on receipt of the goods in the premises of the service provider under Rule [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1541 M/s Bharti Airtel Ltd. v. The Commissioner of Central Excise, Pune 4(1) of the CENVAT Rules. Thus, the Assessee was entitled to CENVAT credit the moment these articles were received in the premises of the service provider and the Assessee need not wait until these goods are actually installed for providing services to the consumers. 9.6 It was contended by the Assessee that tower is a part of the “Base Transceiver Station” (BTS) and antenna, all of which form components of an integrated telecom system. It was further contended that the tower acts as an accessory of BTS and antenna and without the tower, antenna and BTS cannot function properly. Consequently, mobile service cannot be provided by the service provider without tower, antenna and BTS. It has been contended that BTS and antenna are covered by Chapter 85 under Rule 2(a)(A) and are “capital goods”. Since BTS/antenna are “capital goods” under the CENVAT Rules, the tower, being a part of BTS/antenna will be also deemed as “capital good” by virtue of sub-clause (iii) of Rule (a)(A). Since these goods, namely tower, BTS and antenna are used for providing output telecom service to the subscribers/consumers, the mobile service provider will be entitled to claim CENVAT credit not only on BTS and antenna but also on tower, being an accessory to “capital goods” in the form of BTS and antenna. 9.7 The Assessee further contended that for effective and uninterrupted transmission and receipt of electromagnetic radio signals by the antenna which is installed on the mobile tower, additional peripheral equipment such as battery back- up, rectifier, UPS, gensets etc., are also necessary which are purchased by the service provider and brought at the site and installed and housed in the prefabricated shelters or buildings without which the antenna installed on the mobile tower and BTS will become inoperative. Thus, apart from mobile tower, the prefabricated building/shelter, where these ancillary items which are indispensable components of the mobile telephone system are securely housed, becomes an integral part of the mobile telephone system. It was also contended that since it is through these items including the prefabricated building that the mobile telephone service is 1542 [2024] 11 S.C.R.