The report adjudged the disability of the appellant to be 80% - down from 88% which was reported by AIIMS, Nagpur on 13 August 2024. While the AIIMS, Nagpur report did not evaluate the appellant with assistive devices to assess his functional ability, the AIIMS Delhi report did use these devices but ultimately opined that there were no government guidelines on the use of such devices. 8. By an dated 18 October 2024, this Court noted the statement of AIIMS, Delhi on the lack of clear guidelines and observed that the AIIMS report failed to evaluate the (i) extent of functional disability of the appellant; and (ii) the extent to which the use of assistive devices would have the potential to bring the functional disability within the permissible limits in terms of the government notification. 9. Relying on the of this Court in Omkar Ramchandra Gond v. Union of India,2 we requested Dr Satendra Singh of Infinity Ability to assist the Court on whether notwithstanding the quantified disability, the appellant can pursue the MBBS degree course. In arriving at his evaluation, Dr Satendra Singh was requested to examine the appellant and to have due regard to such assistive devises and their potential to assist the appellant to fulfil the requirements of the degree course in medicine. 10. The appellant made himself available at the University College of Medical Sciences and Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital, University of Delhi at 10 AM on 19 October 2024. He was made to undergo functional assessment and was asked to demonstrate his competence at the Medical Simulation Centre at the Physiology and Pathology central lab. Dr Satendra Singh gauged the accommodations necessary for the appellant by interacting with him to understand his limitations and barriers. Accordingly, the following premises were established in assessing the appellant: 2 2024 SCC OnLine SC 2860. 2196 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “Disability: Limb Girdle Muscular Dystrophy (mobility- related physical disability) Potential Functional limitations: Inability to stand for long hours; difficulty in standing suddenly from sitting position Potential Barriers to learning: Lack of accessible spaces What is being assessed: Cognitive, psychomotor and affective skills and ability to arrive at a diagnosis using patient history and examination in line with NMC’s five roles of an Indian Medical Graduate in CBME Appropriate and reasonable accommodation: Given the tight space of clinical environments, smaller/compact scooters are a good choice which Om is already using. This will allow him to continue with the pace and demands of a busy ward/OPD/OT independently and is much superior than a manual wheelchair which is often dependent on human assistance.” 11. Dr Satendra Singh submitted his report on 20 October 2024. This Court duly furnished the report to the second respondent, National Medical Council, on 21 October 2024 to enable them to formulate their response. The report by Dr Satendra Singh outlined the functional disability of the appellant to be an inability to stand independently which may prove limiting in clinical rotations in surgical settings. The report suggested solutions to enable the appellant in such cases.