According to the application filed by respondent No. 1, these witnesses would speak about the cell phone recovered by the Police from the occurrence spot and that the cell phone was of Nokia Brand holding the sim of Vodafone company which belonged to her. She averred that the Police failed to produce the material object and that the cell phone and call details ought to have been produced by the Police. In view of the above, she prayed that the additional witnesses be summoned and examined. 13. The accused opposed the Section 311 petition by pointing out the delay of 6 years and 9 months in filing the petition and also about respondent No.1 (PW-2) not whispering about any of these facts during her examination. They contended that the persons sought to be examined were none other than her son, brother, brothers-in-law and other close relatives. 14. The State also filed its response opposing the application by averring that when the statement of Respondent No. 1 was recorded nothing was mentioned by her and that during the investigation also nothing of the nature as alleged now was forthcoming; that even while being examined as PW-2 the applicant had not mentioned these facts; that no phone was seized and no sim card was seized and that investigation was properly conducted and final report filed. 15. On 29.11.2019, the Trial Judge dismissed the application filed by respondent No. 1. The Court observed that the application was filed 6 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports after the examination of the prosecution witnesses had concluded and when the case was posted for questioning the accused under Section 313. That respondent No. 1 was already examined as PW-2 on 18.03.2017 and that on that day itself, together with her, Subbaiah alias Subramanian and Duraimurugan were also examined as PW-3 and PW-4 respectively. The Court observed that though the power under Section 311 is available to the Court to reach a just decision, it cannot be exercised unless the facts and circumstances of the case make it apparent as otherwise it would result in causing serious prejudice to the accused resulting in miscarriage of justice. The Court observed that though the power is available, it has to be exercised judiciously and not arbitrarily. 16. The first respondent, vide Crl. O.P (MD) No. 18701 of 2019, challenged the dated 29.11.2019 dismissing the petition under Section 311 Cr.P.C. before the High Court. The State vehemently opposed the said petition by reiterating its contention in the courts below. The High Court, by its of 16.12.2019, dismissed Crl. O.P. (MD) No. 18701 of 2019 holding in its operative portion as follows: “9. It is seen that P.W.1 is the person who stated to have accompanied the deceased victim at the time of occurrence. He had been examined by the respondent police. He had not stated anything as if the occurrence was witnessed either by other persons other than him. He was examined in chief before the trial court on 18.03.2017.