We will nevertheless examine the evidence of this witness. He is a witness who was on his way to Haridwar along with his Fufa (father’s sister’s husband). He is supposed to have seen the deceased sitting on a motorcycle along with A-2 at T-Point at Karnal bypass. After speaking to him for 2 to 3 minutes, he proceeded further. This witness reports this incident to the Police on 14.04.2004 when he comes back from Haridwar. His statement is similarly relied on by the prosecution in support of the last seen theory. 24. This witness is a relative of the deceased. The Fufa who was travelling with him is not examined. He does not even know the driver of the vehicle in which he travelled or its registration number, even though he went all the way to Haridwar and stayed there for two to three days. This witness describes the incidence of meeting the deceased and A-2 at a place where even PW-12 is supposed to have seen the deceased. Neither this witness spoke of PW-12, nor did PW-12 speak about this witness. Nothing much flows from the evidence of this witness, apart from his own version which is highly improbable and therefore unreliable. 25. Apart from the improbable and contradictory versions of the three witnesses, Mr. Mullick has also brought to our notice that the weapons recovered by the IO and the ones seen by the witnesses are only sticks. However, the deceased has suffered an incise wound which according to the doctor, PW-14 who conducted the post-mortem, is caused by a sharp-edged weapon. The prosecution has not recovered any sharp-edged weapon. In fact, there is no mention about a sharp-edged weapon at all. 316 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 26. The FSL report states that the “pant” sent to them for examination was one dirty blue “terikot pant”. However, as per the recovery memo a “jeans pant” was recovered from the Appellant. Additionally, the FSL report states that the blood on the sticks, blood-stained pants and the blood group of the deceased is the same “O+”. Mr. Mullick has rightly contended that this is not an indication of the guilt. Moreover, nothing of these recoveries took place in the presence of an independent witness. In fact, the IO (PW-24) has admitted that he did not try to join any private person before carrying out the recoveries. 27. Mr. Mullick has also made detailed submission with respect to place and time of the recovery of the body of the deceased and the alleged motive behind the crime. We are of the opinion that it is not necessary to examine those aspects in detail. Admittedly, there are no eyewitnesses, and the entire case of the prosecution depends upon circumstantial evidence. 28. In a recent decision, Pritinder Singh v. State of Punjab, (2023) 7 SCC 727, one of us (Justice Gavai) has taken note of the in Sharad Birdhichand Sarda v. State of Maharashtra3, (1984) 4 SCC 116 and observed: 17.