Aside from the lack of any 15-days gap between the notice of sale and the notice of auction, no other illegality has been imputed to the aforesaid auction proceedings. It is also not the case of the Borrower that due to the absence of the aforesaid statutory period, any prejudice was caused or that it was prevented from effectively exercising its rights due to such procedural infirmity. Despite a total of eight auctions being conducted by the Bank from April, 2022 to June, 2023, not once did the Borrower express its desire to redeem the mortgage. Even when the auction notice came to be issued on 12.06.2023, the Borrower never intimated that it was in process of redeeming the mortgage with the aid of the Subsequent Transferee and that the auction be delayed even though, as per the parties own submissions, they started exploring the possibility of redeeming the mortgage and thereafter transferring in June, 2023 itself. In such circumstances, given the [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1739 Celir LLP v. Mr. Sumati Prasad Bafna & Ors. fact that although the S.A. No. 46 of 2022 was still pending, yet since there was nothing before this Court to doubt the validity of the 9th auction, this Court in the Main Appeals confirmed the sale in favour of the petitioner and brought the auction proceedings to its logical conclusion by directing the issuance of the sale certificate. The Borrower never raised the issue of the validity of the 9th auction notice despite having sufficient opportunities to do so even after the pronouncement of the decision in the Main Appeals, and that such pleas are being raised only after the auction was confirmed in favour of the petitioner, we find no good reason to interfere with the 9th auction conducted by the Bank. 218. Any sale by auction or other public procurement methods once already confirmed or concluded ought not to be set-aside or interfered with lightly except on grounds that go to the core of such sale process, such as either being collusive, fraudulent or vitiated by inadequate pricing or underbidding. Mere irregularity or deviation from a rule which does not have any fundamental procedural error does not take away the foundation of authority for such proceeding. In such cases, courts in particular should be mindful to refrain entertaining any ground for challenging an auction which either could have been taken earlier before the sale was conducted and confirmed or where no substantial injury has been caused on account of such irregularity. 219. In the present lis, apart from the want of statutory notice period, no other challenge has been laid to the 9th auction proceedings on the ground of it being either collusive, fraudulent or vitiated by inadequate pricing or underbidding, thus, the auction cannot be said to suffer from any fundamental procedural error, and as such does not warrant the interference of this Court, particularly when the plea sought to be raised to challenge the same could have been raised earlier.