It was observed by the High Court that even though “ghee” is not directly obtained from milk, which is a product of livestock, it would 2 Vide dated 02.01.2024 passed by this Court in IA No.241663 of 2023 in CA No.6493 of 2014 name of appellant is amended as Sangam Milk Producer Company Ltd. 180 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports still be a “product of a product of livestock”. The relevant portion of the of the High Court is as under: “Scientifically or common sense point of view, even though ghee is not directly obtained from milk (which is certainly a product of cow/buffalo), it is certainly a product of a product of livestock i.e., cow or buffalo. It would be rather illogical or irrational to say that ghee is not a milk/dairy product or to say that it is not a product of livestock. Ghee is certainly a product of livestock. It is, therefore, to be seen whether ghee comes within the definition of product of livestock or within the meaning of notified product of livestock. Section 2(x) and 2(xv) of the Act used the plural ‘products of livestock’. The legislative intention is very clear that not only a product of livestock like milk (when notified by the Government), butter etc., are products of livestock but even derivative items (derived from a product of livestock) are intended to be product of livestock for the purpose of the Act. We are convinced that the term ‘ghee’ has to be interpreted on the basis of expression ‘products of livestock’ as defined in Section 2(xv) of the Act. Whatever products are declared as such by the Government by notification, they become products of livestock for purposes of the Act.” Another case of which a reference must be made here is the decision taken by this Court in Park Leather Industry (P) LTD. v. State of U.P. and Others (2001) 3 SCC 135. In this case, the Supreme Court was dealing with the provisions of U.P. Krishi Utpadan Mandi Adhiniyam, 1964, which has a provision dealing with similar issues as are there before this Court. In the U.P. Act, “agricultural produce” was widely defined and it included inter alia produce of animal husbandry which were specified in the schedule. In the schedule, one of the items was prescribed under the head “animal husbandry products” was “hides and skins”. The question was whether tanned leather would come within the term “hides and skins” or not? This Court held that the term “tanned leather” can be included under “hides and skins”, for the purposes of the Act and more importantly for the purposes of payment of “market fee”. The reason being that although while making a leather into “tanned leather” a process of cleaning, curing and adding preservatives may be adopted, yet the finished product which is “tanned leather” though different in physical appearance or [2024] 3 S.C.R. 181 Sangam Milk Producer Company Ltd. v. The Agricultural Market Committee & Ors. even chemical combination and even commercially a different item still remains “leather” and would come under the definition of “hides and skins”.