The mere fact that the cheque signed by the accused in his capacity as a “Director” of the Company would in the normal course be honoured by the Bank to which it was presented does not satisfy the statutory requirement of Section 138 of the Act. 72. Section 138 of the Act exposes the person who has drawn the cheque and which has been returned for insufficiency of funds to criminal liability. The provision, therefore, must be construed strictly. However, such a strict construction should not result in defeating the very purpose for which the provision has been enacted as held by this Court in the case of NEPC Micon Limited and Others v. Magma Leasing Limited reported in (1999) 4 SCC 253. At the same time, the statutory provisions creating penal liability cannot be stretched too far to embrace the persons and situations patently excluded from its purview as discernible from clear and unequivocal language used in the provision. 73. Section 138 of the NI Act clearly postulates that the cheque returned for insufficiency of funds should have been drawn by a person on an account maintained by him. It will amount to doing violence to the language of the statute if Section 138 of the Act is interpreted to mean that even if a person draws a cheque on an account not maintained by him, he shall be liable if the cheque is returned for insufficiency of funds. Such an interpretation will lead to absurd and wholly unintended results. 1996 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 74. However, the peculiar factual situation of the present case and the plight of the complainant is not lost upon us. We are conscious of the fact that the option of bringing civil action against the accused or the hospital will be of no avail to the complainant as the claims are hopelessly time barred. Further, it is also not open for the complainant to initiate proceedings under Section 138 of the NI Act afresh by impleading Shilabati Hospital Pvt. Ltd. as an accused as the time period prescribed for issuance of statutory notice under Section 138 has long expired. 75. It is trite law that an act may constitute an offence under more than one statute. The encashment of the cheque for an amount of Rs 7,00,000/- issued by the complainant in favour of the accused stood proved during the course of the trial. Further, the conduct of the accused in not replying to the statutory notice of dishonour of cheque issued by the lawyer for the complainant and in not taking the plea of the cheque having been drawn on the account of the company in his capacity as a Director during the course of trial undoubtedly raises questions as regards his dishonest intention in not repaying the amount borrowed by him from the complainant. 76. In such circumstances, although it is not possible to hold the accused liable for the offence under Section 138 of the NI Act, yet the possibility of him having committed the offence of cheating cannot be ruled out.