When this be the evidence on record how can the appellant contend that he made a bid to save the life of the deceased wife Pushpa and in that regard cut the noose of the ligature and took her to the hospital. Had it been a bona fide, genuine attempt on his part to save her life, he would have cut the noose of the ligature then and there itself upon seeing her hanged, before going to inform the aforesaid witness(es) that she had hanged herself. We are of the considered opinion that the contention of the counsel for the appellant as aforesaid regarding the 750 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports lifesaving attempt, will be of no assistance in the face of evidence of the facts established. 10. We will now consider the question whether the contention of the appellant that the plea of alibi was considered perversely, especially without properly appreciating the evidence of DW-1. In the decision in Binay Kumar Singh v. State of Bihar,1 this Court took note of the meaning of the Latin word ‘alibi’ as ‘elsewhere’ and observed and held that the said plea would be available only if that ‘elsewhere’ is a place which is that much far off making it extremely impossible or improbable for the person concerned to reach the place of occurrence and participate in the offence concerned on the relevant date and time. Paragraph 22 and 23 of the said decision which is relevant for the purpose reads thus: - “22. We must bear in mind that an alibi is not an exception (special or general) envisaged in the Penal Code, 1860 or any other law. It is only a rule of evidence recognised in Section 11 of the Evidence Act that facts which are inconsistent with the fact in issue are relevant. Illustration (a) given under the provision is worth reproducing in this context: “The question is whether A committed a crime at Calcutta on a certain date; the fact that on that date, A was at Lahore is relevant.” 23. The Latin word alibi means “elsewhere” and that word is used for convenience when an accused takes recourse to a defence line that when the occurrence took place he was so far away from the place of occurrence that it is extremely improbable that he would have participated in the crime. It is a basic law that in a criminal case, in which the accused is alleged to have inflicted physical injury to another person, the burden is on the prosecution to prove that the accused was present at the scene and has participated in the crime. The burden would not be lessened by the mere fact that the accused has adopted the defence of alibi. The plea of the accused in such 1 1996 INSC 1260 : [1996] Supp. 8 SCR 225 : AIR 1997 SC 322 [2024] 12 S.C.R. 751 Ashok Verma v. The State of Chhattisgarh cases need be considered only when the burden has been discharged by the prosecution satisfactorily.