Submissions: Submissions of the appellants: 5. Sri Kavin Gulati, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the Municipal Corporation, at the outset, submitted that the High Court erroneously held that the House Tax and Water Tax levied herein are not leviable on the assessee respondent herein in respect of property which is admittedly an enemy property and not property of the Union or Central Government. Therefore, it was submitted: a) that the property is merely in the custody of the Custodian as specified under the Act. That the preamble of the Act provides that this is “An Act to provide for the continued vesting of Enemy Property”. That there is no declaration by the Union Government through any legislation declaring the properties to be the property of the Union Government. The only declaration that is contained is to vest the property in the Custodian without a further declaration that the property vests absolutely in the Union Government free from all encumbrances. That whenever the legislature desired that any property vests absolutely in the Central Government, it would be specifically provided so as in the case of Sections 16 and 17 of the Land Acquisition Act, 1984 as well as in the case of Section 269 of the Income Tax Act, 1961. But the same is conspicuous by its absence under the Act under consideration; b) that a perusal of the scheme of the Act, more particularly, the Preamble, Section 2(c) and its proviso, Sections 15(1), 17(1)(c), and 18 read with Rule 5(1) and proviso 2, 5(2), 5(3) and 15(1) cumulatively would establish that the Custodian has certain obligations regarding Enemy Property. However, the Central Government or the Custodian is not vested with ownership of 858 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the same. Section 2(c), which defines enemy property reads that it “means any property for the time being belonging to or held or managed on behalf of an enemy…”. That the expression “for the time being” would show that the nature of vesting is not permanent and that the vesting is only for the management of the enemy property; c) that for the Union Government to claim ownership of enemy property, it must follow the tenets of Article 300-A of the Constitution of India as well as other relevant provisions of the Constitution, which allow the acquisition of private properties only on payment of a fair compensation. This constitutional right is available to all persons and not just to citizens of India. Being aware of the aforesaid position that enemy properties do not become properties of the Union of India, the legislature has under Section 8(2)(vi) of the Act permitted the Custodian for Enemy Property to deposit Municipal Taxes vis-à-vis enemy property vested in him; d) that even though the Union of India may have overarching control over Enemy Properties, the status of the Union or Central Government is not that of an owner. The Custodian is a statutory authority in whom there is vesting of enemy property, which is different from having ownership over the same.