In this case, the two Judge Bench held that the right to speech and expression does not include the right to defame a person. Justice Dipak Misra (as the learned Chief Justice then was) observed that a contrary interpretation would completely abrogate the right to reputation. '*° 148. In the second modality of the public interest approach, the Courts undertook a comparison of the values which the rights (and the conceptions of the rights) espouse and gave more weightage to the right which was in furtherance of a higher degree of public or collective interest. In Asha Ranjan v. State of Bihar’®, this Court held that when there is a conflict between two individuals with respect to their right under Article 21, the facts and circumstances must be weighed “on the scale of constitutional norms and sensibility and larger public interest.” In PUCL (supra), one of the issues before this Court was 158 [2031 S6CR ]86 5 : (2016) 7 SCC 221; Paragraph 11 “While one has a right to speech, others have a right to listen or decline to listen. [...] Nobody can indulge in aural aggression. If anyone increases his volume of speech and that too with the assistance of artificial devices so as to compulsorily expose unwilling persons to hear a noise raised to unpleasant or obnoxious levels, then the person speaking is violating the right of others to a peaceful, comfortable and pollution-free life guaranteed by Article 21. Article 19(1) (a) cannot be pressed into service for defeating the fundamental right guaranteed by Article 21.” 159 144: “[...] Reputation being an inherent component of Article 21, we do not think it should be allowed to be sullied solely because another individual can have its freedom. It is not a restriction that has an inevitable consequence which impairs circulation of thought and ideas. In fact, it is control regard being had to another person’s right to go to court and state that he has been wronged and abused. He can take recourse to a procedure recognised and accepted in law to retrieve and redeem his reputation. Therefore, the balance between the two rights needs to be struck. “Reputation” of one cannot be allowed to be crucified at the altar of the other’s right of free speech. The legislature in its wisdom has not thought it appropriate to abolish criminality of defamation in the obtaining social climate.” 160 [2011 S7CR ]94 5 : (2017) 4 SCC 397 [2024] 2 S.C.R. 526 Digital Supreme Court Reports whether the disclosure of the assets of the candidates contesting the elections in furtherance of the right to information of the voters violates the right to privacy of candidates. '*' Justice Reddi authoring the concurring opinion observed that the right to information of the assets of candidates contesting elections trumps the right to privacy because the former serves a larger public interest. In Mazdoor Kisan Shakti Sangathan v. Union of India'®, proceedings under Article 32 were initiated challenging s issued under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure prohibiting protests in certain areas in Delhi.