16.11 In this context, by way of analogy, it would be of relevance to refer to my dissenting opinion dated 25.07.2024 in Mineral Area Development Authority Etc. vs. M/s. Steel Authority of India & Others (Civil Appeal Nos.4056-4064 of 1999) (“Mineral Area Development Authority”) wherein the interpretation of Entry 50 – List II vis-à-vis Entry 54 – List I came up for consideration and it was observed by me that even a taxation Entry i.e. Entry 50 – List II was subject to the limitation imposed by Parliament by law relating to mineral development in terms of the Entry 54 – List I. Thus, the doctrine of parliamentary supremacy in the context of an Entry in List II (State List) with an Entry in List I (Union List) was considered. For immediate reference the following passage from said opinion could be extracted: “8.6 However, what is pertinent to be considered in this case is, Entry 50 - List II in juxtaposition with Entry 54 - List I. As already noted, Entry 50 - List II is a taxation Entry which empowers a State Legislature to impose tax on mineral rights. However, this power of the State Government is not an absolute power inasmuch as Entry 50 - List II itself states that the power of the State Legislature to impose tax on mineral right is “subject to any limitations imposed by Parliament by law relating to mineral development”. In other words, if there is any limitation imposed by the Parliament by law relating to mineral development then that would have an impact on the legislative competence of the State Legislature to impose a tax on mineral 2156 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports rights. The key expressions of Entry 50 - List II are “taxes on mineral rights” and “subject to any limitations imposed by the Parliament by any law on mineral development”. Thus, the Parliament can impose any limitation on the State’s right to impose a tax on mineral rights by way of a law relating to mineral development. Thus, while Entry 50 - List II speaks of taxes on mineral rights and is a taxation Entry empowering States to impose taxes on mineral rights, the same is not unbridled or absolute but is subject to any limitation to be imposed by Parliament by law relating to mineral development. In other words, if Parliament intends to regulate mineral development in the country, it can do so by a law made as per Entry 54 - List I and to that extent the taxation Entry in Entry 50 - List II could be limited and the State’s right to impose a tax on mineral rights by a law would be affected. Thus, a taxation Entry in Entry 50 - List II can be affected by Entry 54 - List I in the interest of mineral development by Parliament imposing a limitation on the State’s right to tax mineral rights. In other words, if the Union has by a law taken control of, inter alia, mineral development with the Parliament passing a law, then the State’s power to impose any tax on mineral rights would, to that extent, be denuded, if the Parliamentary or Central law creates a limitation to impose such a tax, if it relates to mineral development.