[…] It seems to us that in cities like Bangalore, where land is scarce, excessive use of land as gardens and grounds is not in the public interest and the Legislature can validly tax the excess land on a different and higher basis. It may in a particular case cause hardship but the Legislature cannot be denied the right to classify the lands in such a manner. Three times the area occupied by a building is not a small area and we are unable to hold that his figure is not reasonable.” 280. In their natural state, minerals or ores are part of the earth and remain embedded there unless extracted. It is also established that “lands” include everything over and below the surface. Therefore, constitutionally speaking sub-soil minerals also form part of land. 352 Khandige Sham Bhat v. Agricultural Income Tax Officer Kasargod, 1962 SCC OnLine SC 15 [7] 353 [1971] Supp. 1 SCR 502 : (1971) 2 SCC 217 1720 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports The subject of taxation in Entry 49 of List II is land as a unit. The subject of tax in Entry 50 of List II is the mineral rights. Hence, there is a distinction between the legislative field in in the two entries. Ultimately, however it must be borne in mind that both Entries 49 and 50 fall within List II and are hence within the domain of the State legislatures. If the tax is relatable to Entry 50 of List II, the tax on mineral rights must be consistent with any limitations which Parliament imposes in a law relating to mineral development. The interrelationship between Entry 50 of List II with List I, particularly Entry 54 of that list has been examined in an earlier segment. 281. The legislative competence of the States to tax lands under Entry 49 of List II will not be affected by the MMDR Act. In Western Coalfields Ltd. v. Special Area Development Authority,354 the vires of a provision conferring powers on the Municipal Councils and Municipal Corporations to levy tax on lands and buildings was challenged. The provision was argued to be invalid because it allowed the municipalities to tax lands covered by coal mines, which were the subject of legislation by Parliament under the MMDR Act and the Coal Mines (Nationalisation) Act 1973355. Chief Justice Y V Chandrachud, speaking for the majority, rejected the contention on the ground that the tax on lands and buildings had “nothing to do with the development of mines” and, therefore, did not conflict with the power of the Central Government to regulate and develop mines under the Coal Mines Act.356 In the context of the legislative declaration contained in Section 2 of the MMDR Act, the learned Chief Justice observed that though “on account of that declaration, the legislative field covered by Entry 23 List II may pass on to Parliament by virtue of Entry 54 List I, the competence of the State Government to enact laws for municipal administration will remain unaffected by that declaration.” Significantly, the Court observed that the declaration in Section 2 of the MMDR Act does no result in the invalidation of every State legislation relating to mines and minerals.