It is distinct from all other professions and is one of its own kind. 4. It is in the above context that we have to examine if the legislature in enacting the Consumer Protection Act intended to include the services rendered by professionals, particularly by lawyers to their clients, within the ambit of the Consumer Protection Act. 5. The laws intended to protect consumers, as opposed to traders are comparatively of recent origin. 6. The General Assembly of United Nations upon extensive discussions with Governments of various nations submitted draft guidelines for consumer protection to the United Nations Economic and Social Council (UNESCO) in the year 1983 inter alia providing for the following: a) To assist countries in achieving or maintaining adequate protection for their population as consumers; b) To facilitate production and distribution patterns responsive to the needs and desires of the consumers; c) To encourage high levels of ethical conduct for those engaged in the production and distribution of goods and services to consumers; 524 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports d) To assist countries in curbing abusive business practices by all enterprises at the national and international levels which adversely affect consumers; e) To facilitate the development of independent consumer groups; f) To further international cooperation in the field of consumer protection; g) To encourage the development of market conditions which provide consumers with greater choice at lower prices; 7. A bare reading of the above guidelines reveals that the same have been formulated taking into account the interests and needs of consumers in various countries, particularly developing countries, in to level out economic imbalances between consumers and service providers. 8. The General Assembly of the United Nations Organization by Resolution No. 39/248 dated 9.4.1985 provided a framework known as Consumer Protection Resolution to which our country is also a signatory. 9. It is on the basis of the above Consumer Protection Resolution of the UNO that the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 in India was enacted with the objective to save the consumers from unfair conduct and practices of traders. 10. In Om Prakash vs. Assistant Engineer, Haryana Agro Industries Corporation Ltd. and Anr.1 a three Judge Bench vide paragraph 7 described the Objects and Reasons for the enactment of the Consumer Protection Act as under: “7. From the Statement of Objects and Reasons of the Act, it appears that the purpose of the Act is to protect the interest of the consumer and to provide ‘the right, to seek redressal against unfair trade practices or unscrupulous exploitation of consumers’…” 11. Recently, in Laureate Buildwell (P) Ltd. vs. Charanjeet Singh,2 a three Judge Bench of this Court, highlighting the objectives of the Consumer Protection Act held as follows: 1 [1994] 3 SCR 463 : (1994) 3 SCC 504 2 [2021] 6 SCR 673 : (2021) 20 SCC 401 [2024] 6 S.C.R. 525 Bar of Indian Lawyers Through its President Jasbir Singh Malik v. D. K. Gandhi PS National Institute of Communicable Diseases and Anr. “26. If one also considers the broad objective of the Consumer Protection Act, which is to provide for better protection of the interests of consumers and for that purpose, provide for the establishment of Consumer Councils and other authorities for the settlement of consumer disputes and for matters connected therewith, as evident from the Statement of Objects and Reasons of the Act.