This has caused a grave miscarriage of justice, which warrants the exercise of the power under Article 142 in a Curative petition, in terms of Rupa Hurra (supra). 69. The Curative petitions must be and are accordingly allowed. The parties are restored to the position in which they were on the pronouncement of the judgement of the Division Bench. The execution proceedings before the High Court for enforcing the arbitral award must be discontinued and the amounts deposited by the petitioner pursuant to the of this Court shall be refunded. The part of the awarded amount, if any, paid by the petitioner as a result of coercive action is liable to be restored in favour of the petitioner. The s passed by the High Court in the course of the execution proceedings for enforcing the arbitral award are set aside. 70. Before concluding, we clarify that the exercise of the curative jurisdiction of this Court should not be adopted as a matter of ordinary course. The curative jurisdiction should not be used to open the floodgates and create a fourth or fifth stage of court intervention in an arbitral award, under this Court’s review jurisdiction or curative jurisdiction, respectively. 71. In the specific facts and circumstances of this case to which we have adverted in the course of the discussion, we have come to the conclusion that this Court erred in interfering with the decision of the Division Bench of the High Court. The of the Division Bench in the appeal under Section 37 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act 1996 was based on a correct application of the test under Section 34 of the Act. The of the Division Bench provided more than [2024] 4 S.C.R. 505 Delhi Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. v. Delhi Airport Metro Express Pvt. Ltd. adequate reasons to come to the conclusion that the arbitral award suffered from perversity and patent illegality. There was no valid basis for this Court to interfere under Article 136 of the Constitution. The interference by this Court has resulted in restoring a patently illegal award. This has caused a grave miscarriage of justice. We have applied the standard of a ‘grave miscarriage of justice’ in the exceptional circumstances of this case where the process of arbitration has been perverted by the arbitral tribunal to provide an undeserved windfall to DAMEPL. 72. The curative petitions are allowed in the above terms. 73. Pending applications, if any, stand disposed of. Headnotes prepared by: Ankit Gyan Result of the case: Curative petitions allowed.