16 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports However, as two years had elapsed, she could not remember the date. She used to go to coaching class along with the appellant, who was a distant brother of her jijaji. The coaching class used to be held in the house of cousin brother of the appellant. One day, the appellant told the prosecutrix that a post of receptionist was vacant in the office in which she could work. Thereafter, he expressed his affection towards her which she turned down on the ground that the appellant was the friend of her younger brother and was also younger to her. After a few days, in the month of Savan, appellant took the prosecutrix to a temple near his village where she took bath under a water fall. Appellant took her photographs while prosecutrix was bathing. After 5/6 days, when she went to the coaching class, appellant showed her the photographs. He also expressed his desire of marrying her but the prosecutrix refused such proposal of the appellant. At that time, the appellant told her that if she continued to refuse his proposal, he would send the photographs to her father. 15.1. After a few days, appellant took her to Anupam Nagar of Gwalior, where his friend Nitin was residing in a rented premise. There the appellant forced himself upon the prosecutrix and when she refused, then he made physical relation with her without her consent. On her request to delete the photographs, the appellant told her that he would do so only if she agreed to marry him. Thereafter, he dropped the prosecutrix at Dabra and continued with the physical relationship with her. On 28.09.2016, appellant gave a stamp paper to the prosecutrix stating that he would support her throughout her life. On 16.06.2017, appellant demanded money from the prosecutrix, pursuant to which she gave him a cheque of her mother amounting to Rs.10,000/-. Again on 07.07.2017, appellant gave a stamp paper to the prosecutrix seeking her consent for marriage. Next when he asked for more money, prosecutrix gave him jewellery of her mother and sister as she was not having any money. Appellant mortgaged the jewellery in a bank against which he withdrew some money. Thereafter, she stated that when she withdrew money from the bank to meet the demands of the appellant, her family members came to know about the relationship. 15.2. Appellant told her before the marriage of his elder brother in April, 2018, that her family members should not come to his [2024] 7 S.C.R. 17 Shiv Pratap Singh Rana v. State of Madhya Pradesh & Anr. place till the marriage of his brother was over. After the marriage was over, he told her that his brother had received Rs.15 lacs in marriage and asked her whether her family members would be in a position to furnish such an amount. After the marriage of his brother, family members of the prosecutrix went to the house of the appellant in the month of June, 2018 but found his family members to be evasive on the question of marriage.