[2024] 1 S.C.R. 1223 : 2024 INSC 98 Priyanka Prakash Kulkarni v. Maharashtra Public Service Commission Civil Appeal No. 1982 of 2024 29 January 2024 [Vikram Nath and Satish Chandra Sharma, JJ.] Issue for Consideration Appellant was not able to take benefit of female reservation on account of her inability to produce a valid Non-Creamy Layer (NCL) certificate on the last date of submission of the application form. Later, a corrigendum enabled candidates to submit an NCL certificate valid in the current financial year. However, the High Court held that since the petitioner had applied from Open General Category because she did not hold the NCL certificate, her prayer for change of category cannot be accepted. Headnotes Service Law – Female Reservation – Non-Creamy Layer certificate – Change of category – Appellant contended that she did not submit her application under the ‘Reserved Female Category’ on account of her inability to obtain an NCL Certificate which was valid as on the last date of submission of the application form i.e., 01.06.2022 – However, upon the issuance of the Corrigendum, the appellants’ eligibility qua the ‘Reserved Female Category’ came to be revived as the appellant was no longer mandated to furnish an NCL Certificate which was valid as on the last date of submission of the application form but instead was called upon to furnish an NCL Certificate pertaining to current financial year: Held: Admittedly, the appellant i.e., a candidate who was scrupulously following the terms and conditions of the impugned advertisement was constrained to apply under the ‘Open General Category’ only on account of certain logistical limitations prevent- ing her from obtaining a valid NCL Certificate – Consequently, in the absence of the requisite documents evidencing status as a 1224 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports person belonging to the NCL under the impugned advertisement read with the Circular i.e., a valid NCL Certificate as on the date of submission of the application form, the appellant did not mark ‘yes’ against the specific question pertaining to her status as a person belonging to the NCL – The aforenoted conduct of the appellant is bonafide – Accordingly, the appellant cannot be unfairly deprived of the benefit of female reservation merely on account of the appellant’s honesty and restraint which did not allow her to mark ‘yes’ against a column inquiring about a prospective candidates’ status as a person belonging to the NCL, in the absence of the underlying supporting document – Additionally, other similarly situated candidates have been granted the benefit under the Corrigendum; and their otherwise defective applications have now been considered by the Respondent – The High Court adopted a hypertechnical interpretation of the instructions without appreciating that such an interpretation would nullify the effect of the Corrigendum – Impugned set aside. [Paras 16, 17, 18] Case Law Cited State of T.N. v. G. Hemalathaa (2020) 19 SCC 430 – referred to. List of Keywords Service Law; Female reservation; Non-creamy Layer certificate; Eligibility qua ‘reserved female category; hypertechnical interpretation of instructions; Benefit of corrigendum; Relaxed instructions.