Second, whether the inadequacy of representation of the more backward of the Scheduled Castes must be proved. a. Inter-se backwardness 198. In Indra Sawhney (supra), this Court held that the requirement of social and educational backwardness cannot be applied to the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes because they admittedly fall within the backward class of citizens.244 One of the issues before the Constitution Bench of this Court in Jarnail Singh v. Lachhmi Narain Gupta,245 was whether Nagaraj (supra) in requiring the State to collect quantifiable data showing backwardness is contrary to the decision in Indra Sawhney (supra), where this Court held that backwardness of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes need not be proved. In Jarnail Singh (supra), this Court held that observations in Nagaraj (supra) that the State is required to collect quantifiable data to prove the backwardness of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes is bad in law because it is contrary to Indra Sawhney (supra). 244 (1992) Supp. 3 SCC 217 [Justice Reddy 781; 796-797] 245 [2018] 10 SCR 663 : (2018) 10 SCC 396 [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1437 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. 199. The decision in Indra Sawhney (supra) exempts the State from having to prove that the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes are backward for the purposes of securing benefits under Articles 15 and 16. The observations do not exempt the State from having to justify the decision of sub-classifying within the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes for the purposes of reservation. The basis of sub-classification is that few of the castes or groups within the class are more backward. Thus, though the State is not required to collect quantifiable data to prove backwardness of the entire class of the Scheduled Castes/Tribes, it is required to collect data to prove inter-se backwardness within the class, where it seeks to make a sub-classification within the class. b. Adequacy of representation 200. Justice Jeevan Reddy noted in Indra Sawhney (supra) that the issue of whether a class is inadequately represented is a matter within the subjective satisfaction of the State which is evident from the use of the phrase “in the opinion of the State”, and that the subjective satisfaction of the executive action must be judicially reviewed based on the standard laid down in Barium Chemicals v. Company Law Board.246 In Barium Chemicals (supra), a Constitution Bench of this Court while determining the validity of administrative actions held that though the formation of opinion by the State may be based on its subjective satisfaction, the State could not act based on circumstances it ‘thinks’ existed. There must be apparent circumstances that merit a certain inference by the State, and such circumstances, must be shown to exist at least prima facie.247 In the preceding section, we have held that inadequacy of effective representation is a criterion for determining inter-se backwardness. Hence, quantifiable data for that purpose must be submitted. 201. In Nagaraj (supra), this Court held that the State must submit quantifiable data to satisfy the court that reservations are necessary “on account of inadequacy of representation of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in a particular class or classes of posts”.248 246 AIR 1967 SC 295; (1992) Supp.