[2024] 3 S.C.R. 36 : 2024 INSC 169 Naeem v. State of Uttar Pradesh (Criminal Appeal No. 1978 of 2022) 05 March 2024 [B.R. Gavai* and Sandeep Mehta, JJ.] Issue for Consideration Conviction of the appellants-accused for offences punishable u/ss.302 and 34, Penal Code, 1860 based solely on the dying declaration, if justified. Headnotes Evidence – Dying declaration, sole basis of conviction – Appellants convicted for offences punishable u/ss.302 and 34, Penal Code, 1860 – Correctness: Held: Dying declaration can be the sole basis of the conviction if it inspires the full confidence of the court – Court is required to satisfy itself that the deceased was in a fit state of mind at the time of making the statement and that it was not the result of tutoring, prompting or imagination – There cannot be an absolute rule of law that the dying declaration cannot form the sole basis of conviction unless corroborated – Rule requiring corroboration is merely a rule of prudence – Where the Court is satisfied that the dying declaration is true, voluntary, free from any effort to induce the deceased to make a false statement and it is coherent and consistent, it can base its conviction without any further corroboration– Material placed on record revealed that the deceased was in a fit state of mind at the time of making the statement and that it was not the result of tutoring, prompting or imagination – Dying declaration (Ext. Ka-6) was cogent, consistent, trustworthy and reliable to base the conviction on the same – No reason to interfere with the concurrent findings of fact that the dying declaration was true and free from any effort to induce the deceased to make a false statement – No legal impediment to make it the basis of conviction without there being any independent corroboration – However, in the * Author [2024] 3 S.C.R. 37 Naeem v. State of Uttar Pradesh dying declaration, the motive attributed by the deceased was to accused No.1-deceased’s devar who she had a quarrel over partition of the house and the role of pouring kerosene on the victim and setting her ablaze was also attributed to him – Insofar as accused No.2 (wife of accused No.1) and her brother-accused No.3 are concerned, the statement of the victim only states that they aided accused No.1 however, no specific role of how they assisted him could be found in the dying declaration – Thus, the said dying declaration can be the sole basis of maintaining the conviction of accused No.1 – Accused No. 2 and accused No. 3 entitled to the benefit of doubt and are acquitted – Impugned upholding the conviction and sentence in respect of the said appellants is quashed and set aside – Appeal qua accused No.1 is dismissed. [Paras 7, 11, 14-16] Case Law Cited Atbir v. Government of NCT of Delhi, [2010] 9 SCR 993 : (2010) 9 SCC 1 : 2010 INSC 491 – relied on. List of Acts Penal Code, 1860.