[Para 9] Notice not issued to Judge as it would put him in a situation of being subject to a judicial adjudication or inquiry by this Court. [Para 10] Case Law Cited Tirupati Balaji Developers (P) Ltd. v. State of Bihar (2004) 5 SCC 1 – followed. List of Keywords Contempt of Court; Contempt Proceeding; Judicial Discipline; Hierarchical Nature; Gratuitous Observation; Bounden Constitutional Obligation; Suo Motu Notice; Judicial Authority; Access to Justice; Sanctity of Judicial Process. Case Arising From CIVIL ORIGINAL JURISDICTION: Suo Motu Writ (Civil) No. 8 of 2024 (Under Article 32 of The Constitution of India) [2024] 8 S.C.R. 951 In Re: of Punjab and Haryana High Court dated 17.07.2024 and Ancillary Issues Appearances for Parties By Courts Motion. R. Venkataramani, Attorney General, Tushar Mehta, SG, Lokesh Sinhal, Sr. AAG, Kanu Agrawal, Advs. for the Respondent. / of the Supreme Court Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI 1. The Court has taken up these proceedings suo motu in the context of an dated 17 July 2024 passed by Justice Rajbir Sehrawat, Judge of the High Court of Punjab and Haryana, while entertaining a contempt proceeding titled Naurty Ram v Devender Singh IAS and Anr.1 2. The underlying facts which gave rise to the contempt proceeding do not need to engage the attention of this Court. However, while dealing with the contempt proceedings, Justice Sehrawat has made observations in regard to the Supreme Court of India. Those observations are a matter of grave concern. Since the forms part of the public record of the High Court, it is unnecessary for this Court to extract those observations, particularly, given the course of action which this Court proposes to adopt. 3. The principles governing the comity between the High Courts, on one hand, and the Supreme Court as the apex judicial institution of the country, on the other, are dealt with in numerous decisions of this Court. We may only reiterate the principles which have been laid down in the decision of this Court in Tirupati Balaji Developers (P) Ltd v State of Bihar.2 4. Judicial discipline in the context of the hierarchical nature of the judicial system is intended to preserve the dignity of all institutions, whether at the level of District, High Court or Supreme Court. The observations in the of the Single Judge dated 17 July 2024 were totally unnecessary for the ultimate which was passed. Gratuitous 1 COCP-87-2022 (O&M) 2 (2004) 5 SCC 1 952 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports observations in regard to previous s passed by the Supreme Court or for that matter in the course of the same proceedings are absolutely unwarranted. Compliance with the s passed by the Supreme Court is not a matter of choice, but a matter of bounden constitutional obligation, bearing in mind the structure of the Indian legal system and the authority of the Supreme Court which heads the process of judicial adjudication of the country. In passing its s, including s of the nature that gave rise to the observations of the Single Judge, this Court discharges its plain duty.