In fact, the press release itself contemplated certain contingencies. A right vests when all the facts have occurred which must by law occur in for the person in question to have the right (see Salmond on Jurisprudence, Twelfth Edition P.J. Fitzgeral page 245). It is only when the right vests will there be a corelative duty on the other as far as nature of the right involved in the present case is concerned. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 483 Nabha Power Limited & Anr. v. Punjab State Power Coroporation Limited & Anr. 60. Accepting the argument would also create tremendous uncertainties in the law. In the absence of any repeal of 01.03.2002 notification and the 07.08.2006 Mega Power Policy, between 01.10.2009 and 11.12.2009/14.12.2009 there will be two legal regime operating. 61. Lord Bingham of Cornhill in his locus classicus ‘The Rule of Law’ rightly identifies as one of the facets of rule of law, the following – “the law must be accessible and so far as possible intelligible, clear and predictable.” The second and third reason given to support the principle makes for fascinating reading and are reproduced hereinbelow. “The second reason is rather similar, but not tied to the criminal law. If we are to claim the rights which the civil (that is, non-criminal) law gives us, or to perform the obligations which it imposes on us, it is important to know what our rights or obligations are. Otherwise we cannot claim the rights or perform the obligations. It is not much use being entitled to, for example, a winter fuel allowance if you cannot reasonably easily discover your entitlement, and how you set about claiming it. Equally, you can only perform a duty to recycle different kinds of rubbish in different bags if you know what you are meant to do. The third reason is rather less obvious, but extremely compelling. It is that the successful conduct of trade, investment and business generally is promoted by a body of accessible legal rules governing commercial rights and obligations. No one would choose to do business, perhaps involving large sums of money, in a country where the parties’ rights and obligations were vague or undecided. This was a point recognized by Lord Mansfield, generally regarded as the father of English commercial law, around 250 years ago when he said: The daily negotiations and property of merchants ought not to depend upon subtleties and niceties; but upon rules easily learned and easily retained, because they are the dictates of common sense, drawn from the truth of the case.”1 In the same vein he said: ‘In all mercantile transactions the great 1 Hamilton vs. Mendes (1761) 3 Burr 1198, 1214 484 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports object should be certainty: and therefore, it is of more consequence that a rule should be certain, than whether the rule is established one way or the other. Because speculators [meaning investors and businessmen] then know what ground to go upon.”2 62. Explaining felicitously the said principle, O. Chinnappa Reddy, J. speaking for this Court in B.K.