The High Court is directed to furnish information regarding such discrepancy. (ii) The directions in Para 100.5 have not been complied with in certain districts such as Bokaro, West Singhbhum, Godda, Chatra, Dumka. The High Court is directed to ensure compliance of the same and furnish information. (iii) In terms of the directions issued in Para 100.7, the High Court is directed to ensure compliance and furnish information regarding the constitution of Special Courts and whether any steps are underway for creation of Additional Special Courts and at what stage. [2024] 2 S.C.R. 1093 Satender Kumar Antil v. Central Bureau of Investigation and Anr. (iv) The High Court is directed to ensure compliance with the directions of para 100.8 and furnish information on the steps taken to alleviate the situations of prisoners who are not able to furnish sureties despite grant of bail. (v) The High Court is directed to ensure compliance with the directions issued in Para 100.9, and furnish information on the same. (vi) To inform on whether the in Satender Kumar Antil (Supra) is being applied to petitions under Section 438 of CrPC. 16. State of Karnataka -Directions to be complied with: (i) In terms of direction contained in para 100.2, it is directed to provide the particulars of First Information Reports of cognizable and non-bailable cases in which the mandate of Sections 41, 41-A of CrPC and Arnesh Kumar (Supra) has not been followed and consequently to provide the details of necessary action that have been taken against erring police officers. Also, in terms of direction contained in para 100.2, information has to be provided as to whether the Standing is being complied with by Investigating Officers. (ii) In terms of the direction in para 100.7, the State is directed to give the details of the number of Special Courts constituted and whether any steps are underway for creation of Additional Special Courts and at what stage. 16.1 High Court of Karnataka -Directions to be complied with: (i) To ensure uniform compliance of the directions issued in para 100.5 and furnish information on the same. (ii) To ensure compliance of the directions issued in para 100.7 and furnish information in consultation with the State Government regarding constitution of any Additional Special Courts, as well as the steps taken to resolve the vacancy in the Special Courts already constituted. (iii) To ensure compliance with the directions issued in para 100.9 and to furnish information on the same. (iv) To ensure uniform compliance of the directions issued in para 100.10 as it has been noted that only a few districts 1094 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports such as Chitradurg, Kolar and Raichur have complied with the same. The High Court is directed to ensure uniform compliance by all districts concerned and furnish information on the same. (v) In terms of direction contained in dated 03.02.2023, the High Court should inform on compliance for inclusion of Siddharth (Supra) and Satender Kumar Antil (Supra) in the curriculum of judicial academy.