On this .......... said that you should mind your language. I am not a witch. On this, the opposite party Shrikant Upadhyay called his family members that a witch had come. Her witchcraft has to be ended. 2. In continuation of the same, the opposite party Ashutosh Kumar started pulling the hair (Jhonta) of the complainant’s grandmother ..... and began to say to bring the stool (dirt) as the witchcraft of the witch has to be freed. On this, the opposite party Paritosh Kumar brought stool in a container (Phophi) and opposite party Rishu Kumar caught the hands of the complainant’s grandmother and Tajbadasti Paritosh Kumar put the stool in the mouth of the complainant’s grandmother ...... due to which Jagmasti Kunwar started vomiting and she fell on the ground. On hearing the noise, when the applicant and the witnesses went to rescue her, Shashikant Upadhyay caught the applicant and the brother-in-law of the opposite party started kicking and slapping him, giving the filthy abuses. When ....... went to save the applicant during the fight, she too was given filthy abuses by all the opposite parties and Paritosh Kumar and Jishu Kumar made semi-naked to ...... by tearing her Saree and Blouse and Soni Devi snatched the gold Sikdi of the complainant. 3. That the opposite party Reena Devi started saying that the witch has to be paraded in the village by 1128 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports making her naked. On this, Ravikant Upadhyay and Asim Priyanshu made the applicant’s grandmother semi-naked by tearing her Saree and when began to pull her away, the witness present there saved her. Thereafter, all the opposite party fled away. 4. That all the opposite party having common intention beat and abused the applicant, applicant’s grandmother and ..... and all the aforementioned caused the incident. 5. That after the incident, the applicant who was badly injured, got himself treated at Areraj Govt. Hospital. 6. That the applicant informed the local police station about the incident but the SHO did not take the applicant’s report. Therefore, the applicant is filing this case before the Hon’ble Court. 7. That it is necessary in the interest of justice to send the complaint to the local police station Govindganj for registering an FIR. Hence, it is prayed that an be passed to register an FIR by sending the application under Section 156(3) Cr.P.C. of the applicant to the local police station so that the applicant may get justice for which the applicant will be grateful to the Hon’ble Court. Sd/- Rajeev Kumar Upadhyay, Applicant. 13. Action taken: Since the above information reveals commission of offence(s) u/s as mentioned at item: 2 (1) Registered the case and took up the investigation: Subodh Kumar SI( Sub-Inspector), Govindganj Or (2) Directed (Name of I.O. ):, Rank: SI (Sub-Inspector) No. to take up the investigation:” The FIR as extracted above contained the names of two victims, however, considering the nature of the accusations and in keeping [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1129 Rajeev Kumar Upadhyay v. Srikant Upadhyay & Ors.