Since Article 16(4) refers to “backward classes of citizens” collectively, Scheduled Castes are at par with the Backward Classes. Article 16(4) is a broader provision that Articles 15 (4) and 15(5). While Articles 15(4), 15(5) refer to “any special provisions for the Scheduled Castes..”, Article 16(4) uses “..any backward class of citizens”. The use of “any” in Article 16(4), as opposed to the use of the word “the” to qualify the beneficiary classes in Articles 15(4) and 15(5), indicates that there is a greater discretionary power under Article 16(4). 28. Mr Vijay Hansaria, Senior Counsel submitted that the List under Article 341 is not a constitutional provision in itself, but an executive passed by the President that can be modified by Parliament. 29. Dr S Muralidhar, Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the State of Andhra Pradesh submitted that the State has not enacted a new law consequent to the decision in Chinnaiah (supra). 30. Mr Arun Bhardwaj, Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the State of Haryana submitted that there are disadvantaged groups within the Scheduled Castes and the State should be allowed to alleviate their concerns. 31. Mr Kanu Agarwal, standing counsel for Chandigarh submitted that affirmative action can be summarized as a two- step process including identification (Articles 341 and 342) and extension (i.e. how affirmative action can be undertaken). 32. Ms Shraddha Deshmukh, counsel submitted that rights cannot be bundled up for the unequal members of the Scheduled Castes, 1358 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports without ensuring that the rights accrue to them in proportion to their lack of representation. Sub-classification is therefore, essential for better representation of the weaker among the Scheduled Castes. 33. Mr Dama Sheshadri Naidu, Mr Rajesh Kumar Khanna, Mr Sidharth Luthra, senior counsel, and Dr Vivek Sharma, Mr Shivam Singh and Mr Sanjay Jain, counsel appearing on behalf of other Petitioners and Intervenors have adopted the above submissions. ii. Submissions of Respondents 34. Mr Manoj Swarup, senior counsel made the following submissions: a. The Scheduled Castes constituted by a notification issued by the President under Article 341(1) are a class in themselves. The latter part of Article 341(2) stipulates that no variation to the List is permitted except by a law enacted by Parliament. The class constituted by the Presidential notification can be interfered with only by Parliament under Article 341(2). As is evident from the Constituent Assembly debates on Article 341, Parliament is solely vested with the power to alter the Presidential list otherwise, the executive would tinker with the list to achieve political ends; b. Upon the issuance of a notification by the President under Article 341, the castes notified are deemed to be Scheduled Castes for the purposes of the Constitution. The castes which are included in the Presidential list under Article 341 are heterogenous. However, once notified, the castes are put in an artificial mould of homogeneity by the deeming fiction; c. The necessary effect of the preferential treatment to Balmiki Sikhs and Mazhabis in the fifty percent seats reserved for Scheduled Castes in Punjab is that the persons belonging to other Scheduled Castes are excluded from those seats; d. None of the entries in the Seventh Schedule deal with Scheduled Castes.