The appellant’s case was rejected by respondent nos.1 & 2 on the ground that the application filed by her was beyond the limitation period as per Section 48 of the Act. 5. The learned counsel for the appellant submits that the appellant’s case is squarely covered within the circumstances laid down in Section 47 (c) [1] and [5] of the Act and Rules 21 and 22A of the Bombay Stamp Rules, 19392 which read as under: “47. (c) the stamp used for an instrument executed by any party thereto which— (1) has been afterwards found 1[by the party] to be absolutely void in law from the beginning; 2[1A] has been afterwards found by the Court, to be absolutely void from the beginning under section 31 of the Specific Relief Act, 1963; *** (5) by reason of the refusal of any person to act under the same, or to advance any money intended to be thereby secured, or by the refusal or non-acceptance of any office thereby granted, totally fails of the intended purpose;” “21. Evidence as to circumstances of claim to refund or renewal. The collector may require any person claiming a refund or renewal under chapter v of the Act, or his duly authorized agent, to make 1. ‘Act’ 2. ‘Rules’ 734 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports oral deposition oath or affirmation, or to file an affidavit, setting forth the circumstances under which the claim has arisen, and may also’ if he thinks fit, call for the evidence of witnesses in support of the statement set forth in any such deposition or affidavit. NOTES Claim for refund of stamp duty. Under rule 21 where a claim for refund of stamp duty is made, the procedure laid down under the rule to take evidence by the Collector. Accordingly, the Collector may direct any person claiming a refund under Chapter v to make an oral deposition on oath or affirmation or to file an affidavit, setting forth the circumstances under which the claim has arisen and if he thinks fit call all evidence of witnesses in support of the statement set forth in any such deposition or affidavit. Rule 22A deals with matters relating deducting to deduction to be made from the amount of spoiled or misused or unused stamps. The word “spoiled stamps” is not expressly defined either in the Act or in the Rules but Section 47 describe instances of such spoiled stamps for the purpose of claiming refund. 22A, Rule of deduction from the amount of stamps, allowance for spoiled, misused or unused etc. When any person is in possession of – (a) spoiled stamps, under section 47, misused stamps under section 50, or printed forms on- stamped paper no longer required under section 49 and he applies to the collector for making allowance in respect or the same. (b) a stamp or stamps which have not been spoiled or rendered unfit or useless for the purpose intended, but, for which he has no immediate use and he delivers up the same to [2024] 5 S.C.R.