Section 408 of the Companies Act is in following terms: “The Central Government shall, by notification, constitute with effect from such date as may be specified therein, a tribunal to be known as the National Company Law Tribunal consisting of a President and such number of judicial and technical members as the Central Government may deem necessary, to be appointed by it by notification to exercise and discharge such powers and functions as are, or may be, conferred on it by or under this Act or any other law for the time being in force.” 42. Rule 11 of the National Company Law Tribunal Rules, 2016, framed under Section 469 of the Companies Act 2013, which is in pari materia with Section 15134 of Code of Civil Procedure, 190835, preserve the inherent powers of the Tribunal in the following terms: 34 Section 151.- Saving of inherent powers of Court. - Nothing in this Code shall be deemed to limit or otherwise affect the inherent power of the Court to make such s as may be necessary for the ends of justice or to prevent abuse of the process of the Court 35 CPC [2024] 2 S.C.R. 281 Greater Noida Industrial Development Authority v. Prabhjit Singh Soni & Anr. “Nothing in these rules shall be deemed to limit or otherwise affect the inherent powers of the Tribunal to make such s as may be necessary for meeting the ends of justice or to prevent abuse of the process of the Tribunal.” 43. In Manohar Lal Chopra vs. Rai Bahadur Rao Raja Seth Hiralal36 a four-Judge Bench of this Court in the context of powers vested in the Court, while interpreting Section 151 CPC, observed: “23… The Section itself says that nothing in the Code shall be deemed to limit or otherwise affect the inherent power of the Court to make s necessary for the ends of justice. In the face of such a clear statement, it is not possible to hold that the provisions of the Code control the inherent power by limiting it or otherwise affecting it. The inherent power has not been conferred upon the court; it is a power inherent in the Court by virtue of its duty to do justice between the parties before it.” (Emphasis supplied) 44. In Grindlays Bank Ltd. vs. Central Govt. Industrial Tribunal37 a question arose whether Central Government Industrial Tribunal has power to recall/ set aside an ex parte award when the party aggrieved had been prevented from appearing by a sufficient cause. Holding that such power inheres in a Tribunal, this Court observed: “6. We are of the opinion that the Tribunal had the power to pass the impugned if it thought fit in the interest of justice. It is true that there is no express provision in the Act or the rules framed thereunder giving the Tribunal jurisdiction to do so. But it is a well-known rule of statutory construction that a Tribunal or body should be considered to be endowed with such ancillary or incidental powers as are necessary to discharge its functions effectively for the purpose of doing justice between the parties.