About five-six nearby people had also gathered there but he could not remember their names. Regarding Bhola Shankar, PW-1 stated that he came after the incident. 17.1. When PW-1 tried to go near his father, appellant Nitya Nand had fired in the air to stop him and thereafter he ran away. No fire was shot for causing injury either to PW-1 or to the deceased. People did not find any cartridge or empty cartridge on the spot. 17.2. He admitted that because of his uncle Laxmi Narain gifting all his property to the sons of Satya Narain including himself there was enmity between the two sides. 17.3. Regarding the deceased, PW-1 stated that he had taken his last meal between 02.00 to 02.30 PM when he had taken dal and roti. His father’s daily routine was to go to Har ki Pauri for taking a bath in the Ganga. On the fateful day, his father went to ease himself first and then went for bathing. 17.4. PW-1 stated that his uncle Shree Dev had exhorted the other accused persons to kill his father. This fact however is not mentioned in the FIR. 17.5. PW-1 stated that he was at the crime scene for about half an hour. During this period, about 100-200 people had gathered. After intimation was sent to home about the incident, people from home had also arrived. After getting the report written, PW-1 proceeded to the police station in a rickshaw and submitted the same. 46 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 17.6. PW-1 denied the suggestion that the incident as reported in the FIR had not happened at the time mentioned therein and that the accused persons were falsely implicated due to previous enmity. He also denied the suggestion that the FIR (Ex.1) was not written in the handwriting of Kuldeep. 18. Bhola Shankar, son of Satya Narain, deposed as PW-2. While reiterating what was stated by PW-1 leading to the incident, he further stated that Satya Narain had cried out for help to save him when he was being assaulted by the accused persons. He stated that he alongwith other people rushed to the spot when appellant Nitya Nand fired from his country-made pistol. He asserted that he alongwith the other people had seen the accused assaulting Satya Narain. After the accused persons escaped towards the south-western side, they came to the spot where Satya Narain was lying. By that time, he was already dead with half of his body inside the water. 18.1. In his cross-examination, PW-2 stated that he had seen the incident with his own eyes. FIR was written by Kuldeep Kumar and his statement was also recorded by the police. He further stated that he had seen Satya Narain falling down the stairs and crying for help. At that time, PW-1 was also near him and he had also witnessed the assault. 18.2. He denied the suggestion that he was not present at the time of the incident and that he was not witness to the writing and lodging of the FIR.