In the instant case, the complexity of reasonable risk assessment in the context of preserving the right to a safe and healthy environment can be understood with reference to some comparative perspectives. (i) The of the Supreme Court of the Netherlands in State of the Netherlands (Ministry of Economic Affairs and Climate Policy) vs. Stichting Urgenda, 19/00135 dated 20.12.2019 is apposite to appreciate the scope of judicial review, when the State, as in the present case, argued that the decision to fulfil obligations under environmental law is within the policy domain and cannot be interfered with by courts of law. The controversy raised by the State of the Netherlands before the Netherland’s Supreme Court was that the Hague District Court ought not to have directed the State to limit the combined volume of Dutch annual greenhouse gas emissions in such a manner that they have reduced by at least 25% at the end of 2020 compared to the level of the year 1990. The Netherland’s Supreme Court dismissed the State’s challenge by applying the precautionary principle. The Netherland’s Supreme Court took note of the real risks of dangerous climate change which necessitate more stringent measures. It reasoned that mere lack of complete scientific certainty about the efficacy of the ed reduction scenario does not exempt the State from its duty to undertake sufficient measures. Also, in the absence of certainty, a high degree of plausibility of the efficacy of the more stringent pathway was sufficient. The Netherland’s Supreme Court held that the obligation to take measures exists if there is a risk 2116 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports that serious environmental contamination may affect people’s well-being and prevent them from enjoying their homes in such a way as to affect their private and family life adversely. The Netherland’s Supreme Court specifically repelled the argument that in the system of the separation of powers, courts should not interfere with the democratically legitimised Government’s attendant policy choices. It proffered the reason that in the given context, the State’s violation of the right to life and right to respect for private and family life necessitated judicial direction for remedial measures. Therefore, disputes seeking review of administrative decisions impacting the environment turn on the relative weight that a decision maker accorded to competing considerations while perceiving the larger public interest. Environmental regulation is supposed to be a reasoning process that takes account of the social context in which the putative environmental effects could occur, the reliability of available information regarding the consequences, the existing institutional history of prevention and containment, and the probability of perceived consequences. It was concluded that while an excessive focus on probabilities can benefit the proponent of a potentially hazardous activity, the imbalanced deference to consequences can give way to the prohibition of such activities. (ii) The of the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) in Fadeyeva vs. Russia, [2005] ECHR 376: (2007) 45 EHRR 10 (“Fadeyeva”) is apposite in this regard. The case concerned an application filed by a Russian citizen who averred that the operation of a steel plant in close proximity to her home endangered her health and well-being and thereby violated Article 8 of the ECHR.