In addition, if the dangers are considered serious enough, then the principle may require withdrawal of GM products or impose a ban or a moratorium on further use thereof. (v) That safety testing for GE food is absolutely necessary for India before the release of any GMO into the Indian environment. However, there are very few established protocols for assessing the potential health impacts of GE crops. All one finds is loose guidelines that in most cases only list certain tests or procedures without specifying how they are to be conducted. (vi) That biotechnology companies frequently deny access or allow strictly conditioned access, to data on crop materials on the basis of confidentiality and IP concerns, making it very difficult for regulatory authorities and independent researchers to verify or review test claims on the safety of GE crops and foods. (vii) That the extant regulatory system in India is ill-equipped to handle challenges outlined above, as past experience also confirms. Circumstances surrounding the initial approvals of Bt cotton in India is a good example. The RCGM, under the Department of Biotechnology (DBT), is a body that did not have the jurisdiction to grant permission for the release of GMOs into the environment. Yet, it was originally the RCGM which illegally 1970 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports permitted the release of the GMOs into the country for the first time. It was only when there was a public outcry over the serious illegality of these clearances that attempts were made to get the release of GMOs cleared retrospectively. (viii) That even for technologies which have been tried and tested, and found to be far safer than GE, for instance Hydro-electric projects, the relevant statutes mandate a public notice and public hearing as well as Environmental Impact Assessment. Hence, it is arbitrary and unreasonable not to have a mandatory public notice and public hearing before approvals for the release of GMOs are granted. (ix) That as per current practice, the applicant company itself is asked to do testing. The test results are not available for public scrutiny. This is entirely without logic and is a clear conflict of interest involving the same biotech company that has a commercial interest in the approval of the GMO. (x) That in India, like many other developing countries, organizations which are substantially funded by the biotech industry have sought to influence regulatory and other decision-making processes by conducting “awareness” and “educational” programmes. The Governments of advanced countries too, have been a handmaiden to GE Industry, often arm-twisting developing countries to adopt pro-GM stances. 8.1 It is further averred that the CPB was adopted in 2002 and came into force on 11.09.2003. It is a binding International agreement on Biosafety and India being a signatory, is bound to implement its provisions. According to Article 10(6) of the Protocol, the lack of scientific certainty due to relevant scientific information and knowledge regarding the extent of potential adverse effects shall not prevent the contracting party from taking a decision, as appropriate, in to avoid and/or minimize potential adverse effects.