9. From the submissions of the parties and documents on the record, it appears that sometime between 2019 and 2023, the Chief Justice of the High Court proposed certain ‘Rules for providing Domestic Help to Former Chief Justices and Former Judges of Allahabad High Court’.7 The preamble to the Rules indicates that they were framed by the Chief Justice in the exercise of his purported powers under 7 “Rules” 220 [2024] 1 S.C.R. DIGITAL SUPREME COURT REPORTS Article 229 of the Constitution. The operative portion of the Rules, which lie at the heart of the present case, follows: “In exercise of the powers conferred by Article 229 of the Constitution of India, the Chief Justice of the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad is pleased to frame the following rules for providing the domestic help to former Chief Justices and former Judges of the High Court. … “6. Selection of Domestic Help: The former Chief Justice or former Judge may at her, or his discretion select a person to be engaged as a Domestic Help. 7. Contractual appointment: The engagement of a Domestic Help under Rule 6 shall be on a contractual basis and will be available until the former Chief Justice or former Judge is entitled to the benefit of the facility under Rule 5 and until the Domestic Help performs duties satisfactorily subject to the certification of the former ChiefJustice or former Judge. 8. Reimbursement: Upon engagement, the monthly remuneration payable to the Domestic Help shall be reimbursed by the High Court to the former Chief Justice or former Judge after completion of the month in each month. 9. Wages: The wages to be reimbursed by the High Court to the former Chief Justice or former Judge for the engagement of the Domestic Help shall be equivalent to the salary payable to a Class-IV employee of the High Court in the grade of a peon or equivalent at the minimum of the scale of pay inclusive of dearness allowance. …” (emphasis supplied) 10. In the above factual background, the High Court heard the writ petition, summoned officials of the Government of Uttar Pradesh and passed various s, including the two Impugned s. The s of the High Court passed before the Impugned s are pertinent to understand the course of events before the High Court while adjudicating the subject writ petition. [2024] 1 S.C.R. 221 THE STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. v. ASSOCIATION OF RETIRED SUPREME COURT AND HIGH COURT JUDGES AT ALLAHABAD & ORS 11. On 5 January 2023, the High Court allowed the first respondent’s amendment application. The High Court directed the Principal Secretary, Law and Justice, Government of Uttar Pradesh to appear in-person along with the records to “expedite the matter”. The High Court held: “On specific query, the learned Standing Counsel submits that the scheme pursuant to the direction of the Supreme Court is already there and the amount is being duly paid by the State Government. However, the quantum of amount towards the benefits being granted to the retired Judges has not been revised since then.