163. Another corollary of the aforesaid is that in the absence of a temporal limit to the exercise of detection, the condition - ‘has been ordinarily resident in Assam since the date of entry’ stipulated under Section 6A 1210 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of the Citizenship Act, tethers the immigrants of the 1966-71 stream and incentivises them to continue to stay in Assam and not move out of Assam to any other place in or outside India, since that would potentially jeopardize their claim to citizenship under Section 6A. To illustrate, if an immigrant had entered into Assam from Bangladesh in the year 1970, but hasn’t been detected to be a foreigner till date, such a person would be incentivised to continue to stay in Assam indefinitely, pending his detection as a foreigner. I say so because an immigrant belonging to the 1966-71 stream becomes eligible for the conferment of citizenship only if, on the date of his detection as a foreigner, he is able to establish that he ‘has been ordinarily resident in Assam since the date of entry’. To further add to the absurdity of the provision, the requirement of ‘ordinarily resident’ also doesn’t have a prescribed temporal limit, meaning thereby an immigrant of the 1966-71 stream is left with no choice but to continue to reside in Assam till he or she happens to get detected as a foreigner. 164. Thus, the submission of the learned Attorney General that an immigrant once granted citizenship is free to move and settle in any part of the country doesn’t hold true for the immigrants falling under Section 6A(3). I say so because the date of conferment of citizenship is dependent on the date of ‘detection as a foreigner’ and the condition of ‘ordinarily resident in Assam’ both of which are mandatory in nature. Thus, an immigrant of the 1966-71 stream is left with no choice but to continue to reside in Assam till the detection exercise takes place. 165. In my considered opinion, the open-ended nature of Section 6A has, with the passage time, become more prone to abuse due to the advent of forged documents to establish, inter-alia, wrong date of entry into Assam, inaccurate lineage, falsified government records created by corrupt officials, dishonest corroboration of the date of entry by other relatives so as to aid illegal immigrants who are otherwise not eligible under Section 6A by virtue of having entered into Assam after 24.03.1971. 166. In a report submitted to the Indian Council for Social Science Research, 2016 titled “Cross B Migration in Assam During 1951-2011: Process, Magnitude, and Socio-Economic Consequences” by Dr. Nandita Saikia & Dr. William Joe95, the 95 Saikia, supra note 65. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1211 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 problem of fake documents and corrupt officials was highlighted, and it was observed that many illegal immigrants were using forged documents to secure citizenship. The relevant observations are reproduced below: - “Corrupt police officers The entire problem of bribing and simultaneous political pressure cripples the police as well.