The following two questions were formulated by him for reference: i. Whether the phrase “claiming through or under” in Sections 8 and 11 respectively of the Act, 1996 could be interpreted to include the Group of Companies doctrine; and ii. Whether the Group of Companies doctrine as expounded by Chloro Controls (supra) and subsequent s is valid in law? 19. Justice Surya Kant, in a separate opinion, observed that the decisions of this Court before Chloro Controls (supra) adopted a restrictive approach by placing undue emphasis on formal consent. Justice Surya Kant traced the evolution of the Group of Companies doctrine to observe that it had gained a firm footing in Indian jurisprudence. However, he opined that this Court has adopted inconsistent approaches while applying the doctrine in India, which needed to be clarified by a larger bench. Accordingly, he highlighted the following questions of law for determination by the larger Bench: i. Whether the Group of Companies Doctrine should be read into Section 8 of the Act, 1996 or whether it can exist in Indian jurisprudence independent of any statutory provision; ii. Whether the Group of Companies Doctrine should continue to be invoked on the basis of the principle of ‘single economic reality’; iii. Whether the Group of Companies Doctrine should be construed as a means of interpreting implied consent or intent to arbitrate between the parties; and iv. Whether the principles of alter ego and/or piercing the corporate veil can alone justify pressing the Group of Companies Doctrine into operation even in the absence of implied consent? C. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE APPELLANT 20. Mr. Hiroo Advani, the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioner, submitted at the outset that the GTC agreement, Form no. 1, Form no. 3 and the License Agreement are interlinked and form part of a composite transaction. The said four agreements cannot be performed in isolation and have to be read coherently for achieving the common object underlying the agreements. [2024] 9 S.C.R. 207 Cox & Kings Ltd. v. Sap India Pvt. Ltd. & Anr. 21. The counsel submitted that respondent no. 1 is indisputably a fully owned subsidiary of respondent no. 2 and the customisation of the SAP Hybris Software to meet the requirements of the petitioner was not feasible without the aid, execution and performance of respondent no. 2. He submitted that for such reason, it could be said that there exists a direct commercial relationship between the petitioner and both the respondents. 22. The counsel further submitted that the various emails exchanged between the petitioner and respondent no. 2 are indicative of the intention of respondent no. 2 to monitor the execution of the SAP Hybris Software project and to ensure the compliance of the contractual obligations on behalf of respondent no. 1. The counsel adverted to the contents of many such emails in support of his contention. 23. The counsel placed reliance on certain clauses of the License Agreement, Form no. 3 and GTC agreement to submit that although respondent no.