Dave (supra) to justify the imposition of the Rules on the state government. 27. In our considered opinion, the reliance on the judgements of this Court to justify the promulgation of Rules by the Chief Justice is based on an erroneous and over-expansive interpretation of the directions of this Court. As stated above, this Court in P Ramakrishnan Raju (supra) appreciated the scheme in Andhra Pradesh and observed that the Court “hopes and trusts that the States who have not so far framed such scheme will formulate the same, depending on the local conditions”. Further, in Justice V.S. Dave (supra), the Court closed the contempt proceedings against the State of Uttar Pradesh noting that the state had already framed a scheme for post-retiral benefits. The Court held that slight variations from the scheme adopted in Andhra Pradesh were permissible and flexibility was contemplated in P Ramakrishnan Raju (supra) for states to frame their respective [2024] 1 S.C.R. 229 THE STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. v. ASSOCIATION OF RETIRED SUPREME COURT AND HIGH COURT JUDGES AT ALLAHABAD & ORS schemes. Further, the court directed that “states where the allowances paid are lesser than the State of Andhra Pradesh, shall consider the necessity of an upward revision of such allowances at the appropriate stage and time.” 28. There is no iota of doubt that in the above judgements, this Court directed the state governments to frame schemes for post-retiral benefits. The above judgements of this Court did not grant the Chief Justices of High Courts, acting on the administrative side, the power to frame rules about post-retiral benefits for former judges that must mandatorily be notified by the State Governments. Further, the Court recognized the need for flexibility and granted state governments the leeway to duly account for local conditions. 29. Further, the High Court’s conduct on the judicial side in the Impugned s was also erroneous. The High Court, acting under Article 226 of the Constitution, cannot usurp the functions of the executive and compel the executive to exercise its rule-making power in the manner directed by it. Compelling the State Government to mandatorily notify the Rules by the next date of hearing, in the First Impugned , virtually amounted to the High Court issuing a writ of mandamus to notify the Rules proposed by the Chief Justice. Such directions by the High Court are impermissible and contrary to the separation of powers envisaged by the Constitution. The High Court cannot direct the State Government to enact rules on a particular subject, by a writ of mandamus or otherwise. 30. The High Court, acting on the judicial side, could not compel the State Government to notify Rules proposed by the Chief Justice in the purported exercise of his administrative powers. Policymaking by the government envisages various steps and the consideration of various factors, including local conditions, financial considerations, and approval from various departments. The High Court cannot use its judicial powers to browbeat the State Government to notify the Rules proposed by the Chief Justice.