7.13 On a holistic reading of the Section 8, the expression “the accused” cannot be restricted to only the accused in respect of whom investigation is being carried out by the NIA for any Scheduled Offence. The NIA, which is carrying on an investigation into any Scheduled Offence, can also investigate any other offence which any other accused may have committed provided such other offence is also an offence connected with the Scheduled Offence under investigation. 7.14 Thus, so long as the connection between any offence committed by any other accused and the Scheduled Offence committed by the accused in respect of whom investigation has been handed [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1777 Ankush Vipan Kapoor v. National Investigation Agency over by the Central Government to the NIA is established, the NIA would be empowered to conduct an investigation of any other accused in respect of a Scheduled Offence which is connected with the Scheduled Offence committed by the accused in respect of whom the Central Government has handed over or directed the investigation to be conducted by it. Therefore, the scope of the powers of the NIA under Section 8 of the NIA Act has to be interpreted expansively and not in a narrow manner. 7.15 While learned counsel for the petitioner would submit that the correct course would be for the NIA to add those accused under FIR No.20/2020 and FIR No.23/2020 as accused persons under the NIA investigation rather than treating other offences as connected, we find that such a course would lose sight of the salutary statutory intent to investigate and prosecute at a national level and, in particular, Section 6(6) of the Act which clearly envisions culling of any duplicity of investigation. By allowing the NIA to investigate those accused under different FIRs registered in different States, an enlarged scope is provided to the investigation into the Scheduled Offences. 7.16 As already noted in the preceding discussion we must be alive to the statutory intent for an actual realization of the statutory scheme. In that regard, it is noteworthy that the Act, especially Section 6 of the NIA Act, is offence-centric and not accused- centric. The Act revolves around effective investigation of Scheduled Offences. Similarly, the central concern of Section 8 of the NIA Act is defining the scope of offences that can be investigated by the NIA and on what basis and not who are the accused. 7.17 Additionally, we might also note that the phraseology of Section 8 of the NIA Act also establishes that the NIA can only widen its investigation to a non-scheduled offence only ‘while investigating any Scheduled Offence’. Importantly, the NIA has not been given unbridled power to initiate investigation of a connected and non-scheduled offence in the absence of an investigation of any Scheduled Offence. In our opinion, this speaks to the Parliament’s wisdom to build safeguards within the text of the NIA Act. 1778 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 7.18 Therefore, the submission of learned senior counsel Sri Dave to read Section 8 of the NIA Act in a restrictive fashion and not expansively, does not advance the object and purpose of the Act and particularly Section 6 thereof and hence, is rejected.