16. We are also reinforced on this, by the findings in the inquiry report initiated pursuant to the directions of the High Court in the writ petitions. In the Inquiry Report, the conclusion was that, it was the erstwhile District Basic Education Officer, Jaunpur and his office, in collusion with the Manager of the School, who had taken steps for appointment/approval. It was mentioned that there was involvement [2024] 1 S.C.R. 27 RADHEY SHYAM YADAV & ANR. ETC. v. STATE OF U.P. & ORS. of Shri Ram Dular Yadav, Principal, Shri Triloki Nath Singh, Manager of the school, the erstwhile District Basic Education Officer, Jaunpur and also the officials of the District Basic Education Officer, Jaunpur. It was further found that the Manager of the School has fraudulently changed the number of posts from two to three in the dated 26.12.1997 and it was mentioned that Shri Triloki Nath Singh, the Manager was guilty and accordingly, District Basic Education Officer, Jaunpur has lodged an F.I.R. against Shri Triloki Nath Singh on 08.07.2013. 17. What is important to notice is, nothing has been mentioned as to how the appellants, who were applicants from the open market, were in any way responsible. There is no reference to any material whatsoever that had been unearthed either in the departmental inquiry launched or in the criminal investigation. On a pointed query to the counsel for the State as to whether the appellants were arrayed as accused in that criminal case, she candidly replied that they were not. On being further asked as to whether any action has been taken against the School, she replied that no action has been taken. The School continues to function with grants-in-aid. She submitted that the only action taken was to file an F.I.R. against the Manager of the School, which F.I.R. has since resulted in a charge-sheet. 18. In the inquiry report, the following crucial findings occur. They are extracted hereinbelow: “(3) Two additional posts of Assistant Teachers were created vide the Directorate’s letter No.Samanya(l) Basic/2117-20/96-97 dated 26.12.1997 (certified copy enclosed) as a result the number of sanctioned posts of Asst. Teachers in the school in question became 06 (six). Earlier this letter was typed for being sent to the Zonal Assistant Education Director (Basic), Azamgarh which was later on erased and ‘Varanasi’ was written with pen. In this letter, in column No.2, the number of sanctioned post is mentioned as 02 and against column No.5 the number of Assistant Teachers is clearly mentioned as 8. This file bears the signatures of Ex-Desk Assistant Shri Rajnarain Trivedi and Deputy Education Director (Science) Shri Harish Chandra Tiwari, who has since retired on the note side of the file there is the of creation of two 28 [2024] 1 S.C.R. DIGITAL SUPREME COURT REPORTS posts dated 11.8.1997 of late Shri Vinay Kumar Pandey, Deputy Education Director (Basic). (4) In the aforesaid post creation of the Directorate dated 26.12.1997, the Manager of the institute, showing 03 (three) posts of Assistant Teachers fraudulently and obtained approval for appointment of 03 Assistant Teachers S/Shri Lal Chand Kharwar, Radhey Shyam Yadav and Ravinder Nath from District, Jaunpur vide letter No B-2/1313-14/99-2000 dated 9.6.98.