This Court examined the said case having regard to the parameters of judicial review in relation to an granting remission by the Governor. It was noted that the Governor had proceeded to grant remission of sentence without any knowledge as to the period of sentence already served by the convicts and if at all they had undergone any period of imprisonment. It was noted that an granting remission would be arbitrary and irrational if passed without knowledge or consideration of material facts. 49. On a reading of the aforesaid s what emerges is that the power to grant remission on an application filed by the convict or on his behalf, is ultimately an exercise of discretion by the appropriate Government. It is trite that where there is exercise of legal power coupled with discretion by administrative authorities, the test is, whether, the authority concerned was acting within the scope of its powers. This would not only mean that the concerned authority and in the instant case, the appropriate Government had not only the jurisdiction and authority vested to exercise its powers but it exercised 884 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports its powers in accordance with law i.e., not in an arbitrary or perverse manner without regard to the actual facts or unreasonably or which would lead to a conclusion in the mind of the Court that there has been an improper exercise of discretion. If there is improper exercise of discretion, it is an instance of an abuse of discretion. There can be abuse of discretion when the administrative or exercise of discretion smacks of mala fides or when it is for any purpose based on irrelevant consideration by ignoring relevant consideration or it is due to a colourable exercise of power; it is unreasonable and there is absence of proportionality. There could also be an abuse of discretion where there is failure to apply discretion owing to mechanical exercise of power, non-application of mind, acting under dictation or by seeking assistance or advice or there is any usurpation of power. 49.1. It is not necessary to dilate upon each of the aforesaid aspects of abuse of discretion in the instant case, as we have observed that the consideration of the impugned s or manner of exercise of powers is unnecessary, having regard to the answer given by us to Point No.3. 50. However, it would be relevant to refer to one aspect of abuse of discretion, namely, usurpation of power. Usurpation of power arises when a particular discretion vested in a particular authority is exercised by some other authority in whom such power does not lie. In such a case, the question whether the authority which exercised discretion was competent to do so arises. 50.1. Applying the said principle to the instant case, we note that having regard to the definition of “appropriate Government” and the answer given by us to Point No.3, the exercise of discretion and the passing of the impugned s of remission in the case of respondent Nos.3 to 13 herein was an instance of usurpation of power.