With such observation, this Condition Precedent was also found to be duly complied with. The NCLT noted that the plan which was approved vide the Plan approval dated 22.06.2021 had to be implemented without any modification and thus the Effective Date i.e., the date of completion of the Conditions Precedent under the Resolution Plan should be read as 20.05.2022. 95. The Appellants filed a statutory appeal against the of the NCLT dated 13.01.2023 before the NCLAT and also sought a stay on the same. However, the grant of stay was declined by the NCLAT on 03.03.2023. This should have closed the debate on the understanding between the parties that the Effective Date was set in stone. 96. The NCLAT also vide its impugned held that the SRA had fulfilled all the required Conditions Precedent. On Slot Allotment Approval, it was held that 48 slots have been obtained by the SRA for the recommencement of operations. The contention of the Appellants that airport charges are required to be paid upfront for obtaining such slots was rejected since the NCLAT was of the opinion 2118 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports that the payment towards airport charges, which are a part of CIRP costs, must be made as per the terms of the Resolution Plan when its implementation had begun. Therefore, it was declared that the Condition Precedent on Slot Allotment Approval was fulfilled despite the non-payment of Airport Dues by the SRA. On International Traffic Rights Clearance, the NCLAT echoed the opinion of the NCLT that it could not have obtained this clearance without commencing and amplifying the operations of the Corporate Debtor. It was observed that this Condition Precedent should not come in the way of the implementation of the Resolution Plan. As regards the AOC, it was contended by the Appellants that the same had lapsed after 03.09.2023 and no extension was granted by the DGCA thereafter. However, the NCLAT was of the view that the AOC was valid on the date when the SRA had approached the NCLT for a declaration that the Conditions Precedent were fulfilled and also when the dated 13.01.2023 of the NCLT was passed. The expiry of the validity period of the AOC during the pendency of the Company Appeal was not considered sufficient grounds to hold that the Condition Precedent was not fulfilled. The NCLAT while reaffirming that all the Conditions Precedent were satisfactorily fulfilled observed that there was no infirmity in the of the NCLT dated 13.01.2023. The NCLAT further directed the SRA to make an application for the re-issuance of the AOC within 90 days from the date of its i.e., by 12.06.2024. 97. The nature of the Conditions Precedent laid out under the Resolution Plan were such that several of them could not be fulfilled before the operationalization of the Corporate Debtor. The assertion that the Effective Date would kick in only upon fulfilment of all the Conditions Precedent and since the Appellants had challenged the fulfilment of the Conditions Precedent, such a date could not be said to have yet arrived, cannot be accepted.