6. In to prove its case, prosecution examined as many as thirteen witnesses and got eleven documents marked as exhibits. After closure of the prosecution evidence, the appellant was examined under Section 313 Cr.P.C. 7. On examination of the evidence on record and after hearing both the sides, the trial court held that the prosecution had proved the charge against the appellant that he had abetted the deceased to commit suicide beyond reasonable doubt. Accordingly, the appellant was convicted for the said offence whereafter he was sentenced to undergo RI for three years and to pay fine of Rs. 2,000/- with a default stipulation. 8. As already mentioned above, the appellant had appealed against the aforesaid conviction and sentence before the High Court of Karnataka (for short ‘the High Court’ hereinafter). By the impugned and , the High Court held that there was no ground to interfere with the of conviction. Accordingly, the appeal was dismissed as being devoid of any merit. 334 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 9. Aggrieved thereby, appellant moved this Court by filing a petition for special leave to appeal. While the prayer of the appellant for exemption from surrendering was rejected on 13.12.2010, notice was issued on 28.02.2011. Thereafter, this Court passed dated 18.04.2011 directing the appellant to be released on bail subject to satisfaction of the trial court. Submissions 10. Learned counsel for the appellant submits that both the trial court and the High Court had failed to appreciate the evidence on record in the proper perspective. Conviction of the appellant under Section 306 IPC is not supported by the evidence on record. Therefore, such conviction and the resultant sentence cannot be sustained. 10.1 There are material contradictions in the evidence of the prosecution witnesses. According to learned counsel for the appellant, even if the prosecution case is accepted, no case for abetment to commit suicide by the deceased could be made out against the appellant. There is no evidence pointing out any act of instigation, conspiracy or aiding on the part of the appellant which had compelled the deceased to commit suicide. 10.2 In so far the testimony of PW Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4 and 12 are concerned, there is a great deal of inconsistency and contradictions in their evidence. Besides, those witnesses being the relatives of the deceased, the trial court as well as the High Court ought to have considered their deposition with circumspection. PW-1 is the father of the deceased whereas PW Nos. 2 and 4 are the sisters of the deceased. On the other hand, PW No. 12 is the brother of the deceased. Their evidence are highly inconsistent. He submits that it has come on record that PW-1 i.e. the father of the deceased was living separately from the deceased with a woman outside marriage. On the other hand, PW-2 i.e. sister of the deceased in her deposition stated that it was the neighbours who had told her that deceased had consumed poison and that the neighbours had taken the deceased to Nirmala Nursing Home.