In addition, from time-to-time, the following Hon’ble Judges also declined to hear the petitioner’s personal matters— (6) ... (7) … (8) … (9) … (10) ... (11) ... (12) ... (13) ... The said refusal stemmed partly from the death of Hon’ble Mr. Justice …’s son and the death of Hon’ble Mr. Justice … as a result of the written curse (‘shrap’) made by the humble petitioner; Hon’ble Mr. Justice …’s son, too, died, and Hon’ble Mr. Justice … has been paralysed for life.’ (v) Further, in W.P. No. 5183 of 2005 before the High Court, the appellant had filed a written submission, where he had made the following statement (we have deliberately redacted the names of the Hon’ble Judges of this Court and that of the High Court to maintain the decorum of these proceedings. The details are however, available in the impugned before us): “Apparently, it is the ego of the judicial office and the accompanying powers—which can be used or mischievously abused/misused, which is making him ill-treat the Hon’ble Members of the Bar and to act in a whimsical, vengeant and harassing manner towards me, in particular. But the learned Judge overlooks the fact that he is not the Lord Almighty and there are Members of the Bar who are close to the real Lord Almighty—for example, I wrote to the then Hon’ble Chief Justice of India and therein cursed that the way justice had been delayed, there will be delay in medical aid and one son of Mr. Justice … shall die; his son died within 4 days. Again, I wrote to His Lordship that Mr. Justice … shall die—he died within 7 days. Similarly, Mr. Justice …. died, Mr. … (retired Judge) has been paralysed for life, Mr. Justice … is also suffering with medical problems, etc. Since then at least 13 Hon’ble Judges have declined to hear my personal matters—including Mr. Chief Justice …” [2024] 1 S.C.R. 1159 Gulshan Bajwa v. Registrar, High Court of Delhi & Anr. (vi) In CM 9695 of 2006 in WP (C) No. 9244 of 2006 before the High Court, the appellant had filed a written submission, where he had made the following statement (we have deliberately redacted the names of the Hon’ble Judges of this Court and that of the High Court to maintain the decorum of these proceedings. The details are however, available in the impugned before us): “3. That several Universal Legal Maxims/Principles/ Premises—which are followed by all the civilised Nations, have been given a go-by in several legal cases (including the instant case) and the same is palpably apparent on the face of the record. Hence, the humble Applicant hereby curses that one son/child of each of the individuals who passed the motivated s shall die prematurely—and so shall it happen soon. Bismillah! In this regard, it is pertinent to mention that it is on the written record of the Hon’ble Supreme Court that the applicant herein had stated in writing that one son of the then Mr. Justice … would die—he died within 4 days, that the then Mr. Justice … would die—he, too, died within 7 days.