It was also pointed out on behalf of the employer that it was making losses barring in three financial years between 2008-09 and 2021-22. Further submission of Mr. Cama is that the workmen of the Taloja unit were not of the same employer after the demerger had taken place and that they were involved in a separate set of activities when compared to the other units in question. 15. Analysis of the authorities relied on by the learned counsel for parties reflect the position of law on this point to be that, though the High Court ought not to reappreciate evidence and substitute its own finding for that of the Tribunal, it would not be beyond the jurisdiction of the High Court in its power of judicial review to altogether eschew such a process. The High Court, in the impugned , however, reappreciated the evidence led before the Tribunal in identifying comparable concerns for applying the industry-cum-region test. In particular, the employer has emphasised that the High Court ignored the negative financial status of the company on the ground that the losses made by it was miniscule. In this regard, the s of this Court in the case of A.K. Bindal -vs- Union of India & Ors. [(2003) 5 SCC 163] Mukand Ltd. -vs- Mukand Staff & Officers Association [(2004) 10 SCC 460] have been relied upon. Both these authorities lay down the financial capacity of an employer is an important factor which could not be ignored in fixing wage structure. In the given facts where the employer seriously contested the use of the concerned units as comparable ones, and highlighted its difficult financial position, the proper course would have been to remit the matter to the Industrial Tribunal rather than entering into these factual question independently in exercise of the writ jurisdiction. This exercise would have required leading of evidence before the primary forum, the Industrial Tribunal in this case. 16. On behalf of the employer, it was also specifically argued that various allowances like house rent, shift allowance, travelling, medical, education and leave travel were granted without any evidence. The employer’s witness no.2 had given his deposition in detail, particularly 590 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports on financial position of the company. From the impugned, we do not find proper analysis of the employer’s evidence in that regard. So far as the union’s appeal is concerned, their point is confined to treatment of overtime wages in computing allowances admissible to them. That question also ought to be re-examined. 17. We, accordingly, set aside the of the High Court delivered on 25.07.2019 as also the Tribunal’s award. Let the Tribunal re-examine the cases of the respective parties afresh. We are conscious of the fact that these proceedings arise from a charter of demand made in 2008. We direct the Tribunal to conclude the reference within a period of six months. The Civil Appeal No.2744 of 2023 against the review dated 22.06.2021 also stands disposed of. 18. Thus, all the three appeals stand disposed of in the above terms.