The High Court found that no valid documentary evidence could be produced by the complainant and the prosecution, for substantiating the existence of any enforceable debt or other liability on the part of the accused. The High Court, 260 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports on applying the principle of balance of probabilities, found that a plausible case had been made out by the defence, as regards non- existence of any legally enforceable debt or liability. The High Court observed in the impugned herein that the balance-sheet and the accounts statement of the accused reflected a sorry state of affairs for the finances and thus, it concluded that the accused, within the prudence of a normal person, could not have undertaken such transactions for the petitioner/complainant without any consideration whatsoever. 7. On behalf of the complainant/petitioner, Mr. Raju Ramchandran, learned Senior Counsel appeared and argued before us that all the ingredients of Section 138 of the 1881 Act stood satisfied because signature of the accused, as also the receipt of money by the accused/ respondent no.1 in her bank account remained undisputed. Further submission of Mr. Ramchandran was that once the aforesaid factors were established, the complainant was not required to prove its debt, in the manner it is required to be proved in a civil suit and that in a situation of this nature, the burden of proof shifted to the respondent/ accused. It was for the accused to show the preponderance of probabilities that the cheque was not issued in discharge of a valid debt and mere denial of existence of debt would not be sufficient to rebut the presumption of guilt cast upon the accused. The authorities relied on for these propositions were:- i. Oriental Bank of Commerce -vs- Prabodh Kumar Tewari [2022 INSC 832] ii. Kalamani Tex and Another -vs- P. Balasubramanian [(2021) 5 SCC 283] iii. Shree Daneshwari Traders -vs- Sanjay Jain and Another [(2019) 16 SCC 83] iv. Uttam Ram -vs- Devinder Singh Hudan and Another [(2019) 10 SCC 287] v. Rahul Sudhakar Anantwar -vs- Shivkumar Kanhiyalal Shrivastav [(2019) 10 SCC 203] vi. Kishan Rao -vs- Shankargouda [(2018) 8 SCC 165]. 8. Mr. Ramchandran has taken us through the of conviction by the Trial Court and submitted that the issue regarding the said [2024] 4 S.C.R. 261 M/S Rajco Steel Enterprises v. Kavita Saraff and Another cheques being procured from the custody of CBI, had not been dealt with extensively by the Appellate Courts and according to the cross- examination of the accused/respondent no.1, she had encashed several cheques falling within the sub-series of the cheque-book seized by the CBI. In view of this, the part of defence of the accused/ respondent no.1 had failed. Referring to the in the case of D.K. Chandel -vs- Wockhardt Limited [(2020) 13 SCC 471], he has further submitted that once the main ingredients of the offence are established, production of the books of accounts is not strictly necessary in a proceeding under the 1881 Act relating to dishonour of cheques.