[2024] 7 S.C.R. 136 : 2024 INSC 478 Bombay Slum Redevelopment Corporation Private Limited v. Samir Narain Bhojwani (Civil Appeal No. 7247 of 2024) 08 July 2024 [Abhay S. Oka* and Pankaj Mithal, JJ.] Issue for Consideration In the instant case, issue revolves around the power of the Appellate Court dealing with the appeal under Section 37(1)(c) of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 to pass an of remand to Section 34 Court. Headnotes† Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 – s.34 and s.37 – An award was passed by the Tribunal – Appellant filed a petition u/s. 34 of the Arbitration Act before the High Court to challenge the award – The Single Judge of the High Court allowed the petition u/s. 34 and proceeded to set aside the award on various grounds, such as perversity, patent illegality, etc. – Appeal by the respondent u/s. 37 of the Arbitration Act challenging the of the single Judge of the High Court –The Division Bench of the High Court passed an of remand to the single Judge on the ground that the single Judge of the High Court did not consider several issues – Correctness: Held: In the facts of the case in hand, while deciding the petition under Section 34 of the Arbitration Act, the Single Judge has made a very elaborate consideration of the submissions made across the Bar, the findings recorded by the Arbitral Tribunal and the issue of illegality or perversity of the award – Detailed reasons while dealing with the alleged patent illegalities associated with the directions issued under the arbitral award have been recorded – Considering the nature of the findings recorded by the Single Judge, the job of the Appellate Court was to scrutinise the said findings and to decide, one way or the other, on merits – In this case, the finding of the Appellate Bench that the impugned of the Single Judge does not address several issues raised by the parties cannot * Author [2024] 7 S.C.R. 137 Bombay Slum Redevelopment Corporation Private Limited v. Samir Narain Bhojwani be sustained at all – As far as the power of the Appellate Court under Section 37(1)(c) to pass an of remand is concerned, the Appellate Court can exercise the power of remand only when exceptional circumstances make an of remand unavoidable – Some of the exceptional cases can be stated by way of illustration: a) Summary disposal of a petition under Section 34 of the Arbitration Act is made without consideration of merits; b) Without service of notice to the respondent in a petition under Section 34, interference is made with the award; and c) Decision in proceedings under Section 34 is rendered when one or more contesting parties are dead, and their legal representatives have not been brought on record – In the facts of the case, the remand was completely unwarranted – The reason is that the Single Judge has elaborately dealt with the merits of the challenge in the Section 34 petition – This Court should benefit from reasoned rendered by the Court under Section 37 – In the instant case, this Court does not have the benefit of a decision of the Appellate Court dealing with all the issues dealt with by the Single Judge while deciding the petition under Section 34 of the Arbitration Act – Therefore, the impugned of the Division Bench of the High Court is set aside and the Divison Bench of the High Court is directed to decide the appeal on merits after considering the arbitral award and the decision under section 34.