11. The results were announced by the Presiding Officer on 30 January 2024. The result sheet which tabulated the outcome is reproduced below: “MUNICIPAL CORPORATION CHANDIGARH ELECTION OF MAYOR RESULT SHEET Sr. No. Name of the Councillors Vote Polled 1. Sh. Kuldeep Kumar 12 2. Sh. Manoj Kumar 16 NUMBER OF VALID VOTES POLLED: 28 NUMBER OF INVALID VOTES POLLED: 08 TOTAL VOTES POLLED: 36 SIGNATURE OF PRESIDING OFFICER I, Anil Masih, Presiding Officer, declare Sh. Manoj Kumar having been elected as Mayor, Municipal Corporation Chandigarh for the year 2024. Dated: 30.01.2024 PRESIDING OFFICER” [2024] 2 S.C.R. 701 Kuldeep Kumar v. U.T. Chandigarh and Others 12. The result sheet indicates that thirty-six votes were polled, of which eight were treated to be invalid. Of the twenty-eight valid votes which remained, the appellant polled twelve votes, while the eighth respondent polled sixteen votes. The Presiding Officer declared the result of the election in favour of the eighth respondent. As directed by the High Court, the election process, including the counting of votes was video recorded. 13. Alleging electoral malpractices by the presiding officer/seventh respondent during the counting of votes, the appellant instituted a writ petition before the High Court of Punjab & Haryana. A Division Bench of the High Court declined to stay the result of the election and directed that the petition be posted after three weeks. The proceedings before this Court were instituted at this stage assailing the interim of the High Court. 14. On 5 February 2024, the video recording of the counting process was played in open court. This Court passed the following : "1. Issue notice. 2. Pursuant to the interim of the High Court in an earlier writ petition, the proceedings for conducting the election to the Post of Mayor of the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation were videographed. During the course of the hearing, the video has been played in Court. 3. The Returning Officer shall remain present before this Court on the next date of listing to explain his conduct as it appears in the video. 4. Prima facie, at this stage, we are of the considered view that an appropriate interim was warranted, which the High Court has failed to pass, in to protect the purity and sanctity of the electoral process. 5. We direct that the entire record pertaining to the election of the Mayor of the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation shall be sequestered under the custody of the Registrar General of the High Court of Punjab and Haryana. This shall include: 702 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (i) The ballot papers; (ii) Videography of the entire electoral process; and (iii) All other material in the custody of the Returning Officer. 6. This exercise shall be carried out forthwith by 5 pm this evening. 7. Mr Tushar Mehta, Solicitor General appearing on behalf of the Returning Officer, states that the Returning Officer has handed over the entire record in a sealed format to the Deputy Commissioner, UT Chandigarh on 30 January 2024.