[Paras 51, 55] 2.2. As specified in a three-Judge Bench decision in Aneeta Hada, the only exception to the above general rule is embodied in the doctrine of lex non cogit ad impossibilia which means that the law doesn’t compel the impossible – Thus, it is only in those cases where the impleadment of the company is not possible due to some legal impediment that this general rule can be exempted – In the facts on hand, it cannot be said that there was any legal difficulty in impleading Shilabati Hospital Pvt. Ltd. as an accused in the complaint case filed by the complainant – Thus, even the benefit of the exception cannot be extended to the complainant in the present case. [Para 56] 3. It is the drawer Company which must be first held to be the principal offender under Section 138 of the NI Act before culpability can be extended, through a deeming fiction, to the other Directors or persons in-charge of and responsible to the Company for the conduct of its business – In the absence of the liability of the drawer Company, there would naturally be no requirement to hold the other persons vicariously liable for the offence committed under Section 1948 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 138 of the NI Act – It is only the drawer of the cheque who can be held liable for an offence under Section 138 of the NI Act – An authorised signatory acting on behalf of the principal cannot be said to be the “drawer” of the cheque “on an account maintained by him with a banker” under Section 138. [Paras 62, 66] 4.1. In the case on hand, the accused was prosecuted in his individual capacity and not in his capacity of being the Director of the Shilabati Hospital Pvt. Ltd. Although it is undisputed that the accused signed the cheque in question, yet as the cheque was drawn not on an account maintained by him with a Banker but was issued on an account maintained by the hospital, the requirement of Section 138 of the Act cannot be said to have been complied with. [Para 69] 4.2. It would have been altogether a different situation if the accused was prosecuted in his capacity as a Director of the Shilabati Hospital – In such a scenario, the cheque drawn by him on an account maintained by the Company would have satisfied the requirement of Section 138 of the Act but as the accused has been proceeded against for an offence under Section 138 of the Act in his individual capacity and inasmuch as the cheque dishonoured for insufficiency of funds was drawn on the account maintained by the Company, namely, Shilabati Hospital Pvt. Ltd., and not by the accused herein, no offence could be said to have been committed under Section 138 of the Act – The High Court rightly held that in the absence of the principal offender having been arraigned as an accused, prosecution for the commission of an offence under Section 138 of the NI Act could not have proceeded against the accused.