However, there are a few misgivings in the sequence of its application. For the benefit of practice and procedure, we sum up the steps as follows. 21.1. Section 33 of the Act is titled examination and impounding of instruments. The object of the provision is to disable persons from withdrawing the instruments produced by them on being told that proper stamp duty and penalty should be paid. 21.1.1. The person who intends to rely on an insufficiently/ improperly stamped instrument has option to submit to the scope of Section 34 of the Act, pay duty and penalty. The party also has the option to directly move an application under Section 39 of the Act before the District Registrar and have the deficit stamp duty and the penalty as may be imposed collected. In either of the cases, after the deficit stamp duty and the penalty are paid, the impounding effected under Section 35 of the Act is released and the instrument available to the party for relying as evidence. In the event, a party prefers to have the document sent to the deputy commissioner for collecting the deficit stamp duty and penalty, the Court/Every Person has no option except to send the document to the District Registrar. The caveat to the above is that, before the Court/Every Person exercises the jurisdiction under Section 34 of the Act, the option must be exercised by a party. 21.2. Section 34 of the Act is titled instruments not duly stamped inadmissible in evidence. This provision bars the admission of it is duly stamped, or that it is not so chargeable, as the case may be; (b) if he is of opinion that such instrument is chargeable with duty and is not duly stamped he shall require the payment of the proper duty or the amount required to make up the same, together with a penalty of five rupees; or if he thinks fit; an amount not exceeding ten times the amount of the proper duty or of the deficient portion thereof, whether such amount exceeds or falls short of five rupees: Provided that, when such instrument has been impounded only because it has been written in contravention of section 13 or section 14, the 1[Deputy Commissioner]1 may, if he thinks fit, remit the whole penalty prescribed by this section. [1. Substituted by Act 29 of 1962 w.e.f. 1.10.1962.] (2) 1[Subject to any s made under Chapter VI, every certificate]1 under clause (a) of sub- section (1) shall, for the purposes of this Act be conclusive evidence of the matters stated therein. [1. Substituted by Act 29 of 1962 w.e.f. 1.10.1962.] (3) Where an instrument has been sent to the 1[Deputy Commissioner]1 under sub-section (2) of section 37, the 1[Deputy Commissioner]1 shall, when he has dealt with it as provided by this section, return it to the impounding officer. [1. Substituted by Act 29 of 1962 w.e.f. 1.10.1962.] [2024] 9 S.C.R. 183 Seetharama Shetty v. Monappa Shetty an instrument in evidence unless adequate stamp duty and the penalty are paid.