These branches are known as thavazhi which is a group of descendants in the female line of a female common ancestor. A thavazhi can own properties, separate and distinct from tharwad properties. In other words, a marumakkathayee woman alongwith her children and further descendants, how low-soever, in a female line constitute thavazhi. The concepts discussed above would be best explained by way of illustrations as under: ILLUSTRATION : A AH AS AD AD 1 2 AS 1 C B C C 1 2 A is married to AH. They have three children- two daughters, AD and AD , and a son, AS. All members shown above with the 1 2 exception of AS form the tharwad of A. This is in line with the 1 matrilineal succession or in other words, the female being the ‘stock of descent’. AD with her children C, the daughter and B, the son 2 and grandchildren C and C forms a thavazhi. 1 2 6. A karanavan is a manager of a joint family property. It is the oldest male member of the family. However, this customary position does not exclude a woman from managing the affairs of the tharwad or thavazhi if no male member is capable of taking up the required duties. Under Madras Marumakkattayam Act, 1932, it is defined as under: [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1019 Ramachandran & Ors. v. Vijayan & Ors. “ Section 3(c) ‘karanavan’ means the oldest male member of a tarwad or tavazhi, as the case may be, in whom the right to management of its properties vests or, in the absence of a male member, the oldest female member or where by custom or family usage the right to such management vests in the oldest female member, such female member;” 7. This Court explained the position of karanavan in Achuthan Nair v. Chinnamu Amma (supra)3: “7. ..The management of a tarwad or tavazhi ordinarily vests in the eldest male member of the tarwad or tavazhi, as the case may be. But there are instances where the eldest female member of a tarwad or a tavazhi is the manager thereof. The male manager is called the karnavan and the female one, karnavati. A karnavati or karnavan is a representative of the tarwad or tavazhi and is the protector of the members thereof. He or she stands in a fiduciary relationship with the members thereof. … But it is settled law that if a property is acquired in the name of the karnavan, there is a strong presumption that it is a tarwad property and that the presumption must hold good unless and until it is rebutted by acceptable evidence.” (Emphasis supplied) It is to be noted that, the position does not grant any special rights in the property and these rights standard part with any other member of the joint family. BRIEF FACTS 8. The facts which are necessary to dispose of the appeal are presented hereinbelow. For ease of understanding, a chart representing the genealogy is produced: 3 [1966] 1 SCR 454 : 1965 SCC OnLine SC 303 1020 [2024] 11 S.C.R.