965 Baby Sakshi Greola v. Manzoor Ahmad Simon and Another with her children on foot, they had to cross the road. When they were crossing the road, on a zebra crossing meant for pedestrians, a Tata Safari car bearing registration number DL-3C-AX-4502, driven by Respondent No.1, at a very high speed, hit her daughter (appellant/ Baby Sakshi) with great force as a result of which her daughter sustained grievous injuries to her brain, sustained fracture over left side of femur and lacerated injuries all over her body. 12. Smt. Prakashi Devi (PW-2) stated that her daughter has become permanently partially disabled from her skull area. Further, her daughter cannot enjoy her life like a normal person and cannot walk properly. The prospect of her marriage has been ruined due to the unfortunate accident. Her daughter will not get any government job in her remaining life. Thus, life has become just like hell for her and her daughter will have to suffer trauma and loss of amenities of life. 13. It was also stated by the mother of the appellant (PW-2), that she wanted to make her daughter a badminton player but all her hopes have now vanished due to the unfortunate accident. It was stated by her that the appellant was a brilliant student and had she not met with the accident, she would have got a job of at least Rs. 25,000- 30,000/- per month, but as a result of the accident she has become a dull student. 14. It would also be appropriate to refer to the evidence of Dr. Monica Juneja (PW-3), who proved the Disability Certificate dated 10th January 2011. As per the said certificate, the appellant has suffered 75% disability, which is permanent in nature on account of moderate mental retardation. This disability is in relation to the whole body, which is non-progressive. It is stated in the certificate that this is a case of road traffic accident with Subarachnoid Haemorrhage with healed fracture femur left with moderate mental retardation which means she has an Intelligence Quotient of 41 and social Quotient of 43. 15. It is recorded in the testimony of Dr. Monica Juneja (PW-3) that, children with moderate mental retardation are generally able to learn skills up to the level of 2nd Standard/Class as adults and can work under close supervision only. Further, the appellant also has severe apathy and has no control over passage of her urine. Because of severe apathy, the appellant has no interest in playing or 966 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports interacting with other children. The appellant would require very close supervision of an attendant for her day-to-day care. The appellant would also require admission in a special school or training by a special education teacher. 16. Dr. Monica Juneja (PW-3) has also stated that, due to all these problems, her marriage prospects may be affected. However, her possibility of procreation is not affected on account of mental retardation. 17. This Court, in the case of Kajal (supra), had an opportunity to consider a case with identical facts.