Section 15 titled ‘Renewal of driving licenses’, outlines the requirements for renewal within the time period provided therein. The second proviso to Section 15(1), mandates the requirement of a medical certificate for ‘Transport Vehicle’ and for those who are above the age of 40 years. The second proviso therein reads as under: “Provided further that where the application is for the renewal of a licence to drive a transport vehicle or where in any other case the applicant has attained the age of forty years, the same shall be accompanied by a medical certificate in the same form and in the same manner as is referred to in sub-section (3) of section 8, and the provisions of sub-section (4) of section 8 shall, so far as may be, apply in relation to every such case as they apply in relation to a learner’s licence.” [emphasis supplied] 56. Section 9 titled ‘Grant of driving license’ provides a comprehensive procedure for granting driving licenses. Section 9(1) addresses the jurisdiction involved in the licensing process. Under Section 9(2), anyone not disqualified from holding or obtaining a driving license may apply, using a form prescribed by the Central Government. 598 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports The applicant must also pass a test as specified in Section 9(3). Additionally, for those seeking a Transport Vehicle license, Section 9(4) mandates a minimum educational qualification set by the Central Government. Section 9(5) pertains to the requirement for re-taking the test after 7 days. Meanwhile, 9(6) states that the test of competence to drive must be carried out in a vehicle of the type to which the application refers. Section 9(7) deals with disqualification and Section 9(8) provides, inter alia, that the licensing authority may refuse to issue a licence to a habitual criminal or a habitual drunkard or who is habitually addicted to any narcotic drug or psychotropic substance or whose license had been revoked earlier. Section 9(4) which is relevant for our purpose is extracted below: “(4) Where the application is for a licence to drive a transport vehicle, no such authorisation shall be granted to any applicant unless he possesses such minimum educational qualification as may be prescribed by the Central Government and a driving certificate issued by a school or establishment referred to in section 12.” [emphasis supplied] 57. Rule 17(1)(b) of the MV Rules stipulates that any application for adding a class of “Transport Vehicle” to a Driving License must be accompanied by a Driving Certificate: “17. Addition to driving licence.—(1) An application for the addition of another class or description of motor vehicle to the driving licence shall be made in [Form 2] to the licensing authority and shall be accompanied by— (a) an effective learner’s licence and driving licence held by the applicant; (b) the driving certificate in Form 5, in the case of an application for addition of a transport vehicle, excluding E-rickshaw or E-cart.” [emphasis supplied] 58. Section 14 of the Motor Vehicles Act outlines the validity period of driving licenses, distinguishing between those for ‘transport vehicles’ and ‘transport vehicles carrying goods,’ while also considering the age of the license holder.