A simple reading of the aforesaid decree reveals that interest has been awarded in two parts on the amount of Rs.21,56,745/- i.e. (i) 12% per annum on the awarded amount up to the date of award; and (ii) 15% per annum from the date of award till the realization of the decretal amount. 7. It appears that the petitioner was paid the principal amount of compensation awarded and interest of 12% and 15% for the two periods i.e. pre-award and post-award on the principal amount awarded. However, petitioner was not satisfied and he moved execution for the realization of certain amount as shortfall of the interest. The petitioner contended that insofar as 15% interest is concerned, it is payable on the principal amount of compensation awarded plus 12% simple interest on the said amount. In other words, petitioner sought to include 12% interest in the principal amount of compensation awarded for the purposes of claiming 15% simple interest for the post-award period. 8. The Principal Senior Civil Judge, Khambhalia, in Execution Petition No.9 of 2006 preferred by the petitioner, refused to accept the contention of the petitioner so as to award 15% interest on the principal amount of compensation awarded plus 12% simple interest thereof. In a way, he declined to grant interest upon interest for the reason that the Arbitrator has not awarded it in so many words. 9. In the petition preferred by the petitioner before the High Court, the same view was adopted by the High Court vide its and dated 06.09.2013. It held that as the Arbitrator had used word ‘simple interest’ and had not specifically awarded compound interest, therefore, the petitioner is only entitled to simple interest @ 12% per annum on the amount awarded as compensation for the pre-award period and simple interest @ 15% per annum for the post-award period only on the amount of compensation awarded. 10. Aggrieved by the and of the High Court dated 06.09.2013 and that of the Principal Senior Civil Judge, Khambhalia, dated 29.08.2008, the petitioner has preferred this Special Leave Petition. [2024] 8 S.C.R. 117 M/s D. Khosla and Company v. The Union of India 11. Ms. Mendiratta, learned counsel for the petitioner argued that 12% interest per annum awarded for the pre-award period is part of the principal sum and it has lost its character as separate interest. Therefore, 15% interest per annum awarded for the post-award period is both on the principal sum and the 12% interest inclusive. 12. In contrast, Ms. Aishwarya Bhati, learned Additional Solicitor General appearing on behalf of the respondent, has argued that though there is no controversy with regard to the power of the arbitrator to award interest on interest or compound interest in a given case. However, it cannot be paid to the claimant until and unless it is specifically granted by the award or the of court. 13. In the instant case, the arbitrator had granted interest for two separate periods on the principal sum adjudged only and there is no direction that the interest for the subsequent period would be payable on the principal sum adjudged including interest for the first period.