Digital Supreme Court Reports that the parties always understood that the seat of arbitration would be in India and London would only be the “venue” to hold the proceedings of arbitration. We find force in the submission made by the learned Senior Counsel for the appellants that the facts of the present case would make the ratio of law laid down in Naviera Amazonica Peruana S.A. applicable in the present case. Applying the closest and the intimate connection to arbitration, it would be seen that the parties had agreed that the provisions of the Indian Arbitration Act, 1996 would apply to the arbitration proceedings. By making such a choice, the parties have made the curial law provisions contained in Chapters III, IV, V and VI of the Indian Arbitration Act, 1996 applicable. Even Dr Singhvi had submitted that Chapters III, IV, V and VI would apply if the seat of arbitration is in India. By choosing that Part I of the Indian Arbitration Act, 1996 would apply, the parties have made a choice that the seat of arbitration would be in India. Section 2(2) of the Indian Arbitration Act, 1996 provides that Part I “shall apply where the place of arbitration is in India”. In Balco, it has been categorically held that Part I of the Indian Arbitration Act, 1996, will have no application, if the seat of arbitration is not in India. In the present case, London is mentioned only as a “venue” of arbitration which, in our opinion, in the facts of this case cannot be read as the “seat” of arbitration. 99. We are fortified in taking the aforesaid view since all the three laws applicable in arbitration proceedings are Indian laws. The law governing the contract, the law governing the arbitration agreement and the law of arbitration/curial law are all stated to be Indian. In such circumstances, the observation in Naviera Amazonica Peruana S.A. would become fully applicable. In that case, the Court of Appeal in England considered the agreement which contained a clause providing for the jurisdiction of the courts in Lima, Peru in the event of judicial dispute; and at the same time contained a clause providing that the arbitration would be governed by the English law and the procedural law of arbitration shall be the English [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1207 M/s Arif Azim Co. Ltd. v. M/s Micromax Informatics Fze law. The Court of Appeal summarised the state of the jurisprudence on this topic. [...] xxx 116. The submission made by Dr Singhvi would only be worthy of acceptance on the assumption that London is the seat. That would be to put the cart before the horse. Surely, jurisdiction of the courts cannot be rested upon unsure or insecure foundations. If so, it will flounder with every gust of wind from different directions. Given the connection to India of the entire dispute between the parties, it is difficult to accept that parties have agreed that the seat would be London and that venue is only a misnomer.