34. We do not find any illegality or irrationality in the conclusion reached by the second respondent that the petitioner is not (commercially) reliable and trustworthy in the light of its conduct in the context of the transaction in question. We cannot find fault with the second respondent’s 206 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports conclusion because the petitioner chose to go back on its offer of paying a premium of Rs 190.53 crores per annum, after realising that the next bidder quoted a much lower amount. Whether the decision of the petitioner is bona fide or mala fide, requires a further probe into the matter, but, the explanation offered by the petitioner does not appear to be a rational explanation. 36. …. The dereliction, such as the one indulged in by the petitioner, if not handled firmly, is likely to result in recurrence of such activity not only on the part of the petitioner, but others also, who deal with public bodies, such as the second respondent giving scope for unwholesome practices…..” 40. Equally so in Kulja Industries (supra), the party blacklisted was alleged to have fraudulently withdrawn a huge amount of money which was not due to it in collusion and conspiracy with officials of the respondent Corporation. 41. Patel Engineering (supra) and Kulja Industries (supra) bring out the contrast between cases of that ilk and others, like the case in question. It is this distinction the Division Bench has grossly overlooked which, however, the learned Single Judge had rightly brought to the fore. 42. For all the reasons set out hereinabove, we set aside the impugned of the Division Bench dated 21.06.2017 passed in M.A.T. No. 277 of 2017 and restore the of the learned Single Judge. The result will be that the Writ Petition No. 6616(W) of 2016 filed by the appellant before the High Court at Calcutta would stand allowed and the of blacklisting dated 02.03.2016 would stand set aside. The Appeal is, accordingly, allowed. No as to costs. Result of the case: Appeal allowed. †Headnotes prepared by: Ankit Gyan