[2024] 9 S.C.R. 549 OPG Power Generation Private Limited v. Enexio Power Cooling Solutions India Private Limited & Anr. 71.4 Awards falling in category (1) are vulnerable as they would be in conflict with the provisions of Section 31(3) of the 1996 Act. Therefore, such awards are liable to be set aside under Section 34, unless (a) the parties have agreed that no reasons are to be given, or (b) the award is an arbitral award on agreed terms under Section 30. 71.5 Awards falling in category (2) are amenable to a challenge on ground of impropriety or perversity, strictly in accordance with the grounds set out in Section 34 of the 1996 Act. 71.6 Awards falling in category (3) require to be dealt with care. In a challenge to such award, before taking a decision the Court must take into consideration the nature of the issues arising between the parties in the arbitral proceedings and the degree of reasoning required to address them. The Court must thereafter carefully peruse the award, and the documents referred to therein. If reasons are intelligible and adequate on a fair-reading of the award and, in appropriate cases, implicit in the documents referred to therein, the award is not to be set aside for inadequacy of reasons. However, if gaps are such that they render the reasoning in support of the award unintelligible, or lacking, the Court exercising power under Section 34 may set aside the award. Scope of interference with the interpretation / construction of a contract accorded in an arbitral award. 72. An arbitral tribunal must decide in accordance with the terms of the contract. In a case where an arbitral tribunal passes an award against the terms of the contract, the award would be patently illegal. However, an arbitral tribunal has jurisdiction to interpret a contract having regard to terms and conditions of the contract, conduct of the parties including correspondences exchanged, circumstances of the case and pleadings of the parties. If the conclusion of the arbitrator is based on a possible view of the matter, the Court should not intefere.58 But where, on a full reading of the contract, the view of 58 See: Steel Authority of India Ltd. v. Gupta Brother Steel Tubes Limited, (2009) 10 SCC 63; Pure Helium India (P) Ltd v. ONGC, (2003) 8 SCC 593; McDermott International Inc. v. Burn Standard Co. Ltd., (2006) 11 SCC 181; MMTC Ltd. v. Vedanta Ltd., (2019) 4 SCC 163 550 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the arbitral tribunal on the terms of a contract is not a possible view, the award would be considered perverse and as such amenable to interference.59 Whether unexpressed term can be read into a contract as an implied condition. 73. Ordinarily, terms of the contract are to be understood in the way the parties wanted and intended them to be. In agreements of arbitration, where party autonomy is the grund norm, how the parties worked out the agreement, is one of the indicators to decipher the intention, apart from the plain or grammatical meaning of the expressions used.60 74.