He has specifically stated that being cashier of the Company’s branch, he has not issued Ex. P9 and has not received any payments from the accused. This witness has also deposed that the Investigating Officer had obtained the signatures and writings of the accused as also PW5. 15. PW4-the husband of Savithramma has stated that he purchased the vehicle from the accused in the name of his wife. He also stated that the accused on his request brought the Clearance Certificate from the office of the RTO, Nelamangala. PW9-Dinesh Kumar is the Police Sub-Inspector who has deposed about receiving Exs. P9 and 10 from RTO, Nelamangala. He further states that he forwarded the sample handwritings, signatures and Exs. P8 to P10 along with sample documents secured from PW1 being Exs. P11, P12 and P19 to the handwriting expert. 16. PW11-Syed Asgar Imam is a retired Assistant Director of the Forensic Sciences Laboratory, Bangalore. This witness is an expert witness in the case and had submitted an expert report being Ex. P28. This witness has specifically deposed that the signatures found on Exs. P8 and P9 were forged. This witness also specifically stated that it was the accused who had made the D5, D6 and D7 signatures on Ex. P10. It was stated that the signatures found on these documents were not the signatures of PW5, who is the competent person to issue these documents on behalf of the Company. 17. It is undoubtedly true that some of the prosecution witnesses are officials working in the Company, but just for that reason they cannot be termed as interested witnesses. Except a bald allegation, no material has been placed on record by the accused to show any enmity or ill-will against him by these witnesses, to bolster the argument of false incrimination. As stated earlier, the accused took a specific defence that he had repaid the entire loan amount. However, nothing has been produced to show how the amount was repaid, when it was [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2273 V.D. Raveesha v. The State of Karnataka repaid, and by which mode it was repaid. Having taken a specific defence, it was for the accused to lead evidence and probabilize his defence. In our view, the accused has failed in this regard. 18. In fact, the Court is a little surprised as to how the petitioner, even before this Court, has taken the stand that the documents are genuine and not forged and/or fabricated, when the entire evidence, both oral as well as documentary, clearly reveal to the contrary. Moreover, there is no record, whatsoever, forthcoming to show that the accused had repaid the loan. Obviously, the act of repayment of the loan, had the petitioner actually paid back the loan, could have been demonstrated by bringing before the Courts documents to indicate that money was transferred from his account/source to the financier-Company. This has not been done. 19. At this stage, and subject to what we have stated infra, it would suffice to say, that for the purposes of establishing the petitioner’s guilt, there was sufficient and reliable material, which rightly the Courts below have believed and relied upon.