The State would therefore be affected by any unconstitutional exercise of power by the Central Government. The word “right” in Article 131 of the Constitution is used in a generic sense. If the State claims to be entitled to legislative exclusivity on a particular matter on the ground that it falls within List II of Seventh Schedule and the Union of India questions this right, despite the constitutional restriction under Entry 80, List I, the dispute is one relating not to not only the right of the State in the strict sense of the term but also of the liberty of the State, and the same would directly come within the scope of Article 131 of the Constitution. It is therefore, evident that the present suit is maintainable by the Plaintiff against the Defendant before this Hon’ble [2024] 7 S.C.R. 715 The State of West Bengal v. Union of India Court under Article 131 of the Constitution. The plaintiff has not filed any other similar suit claiming the same reliefs before this Hon’ble Court or any other Court. The Suit is not barred by limitation as on the date of filing of the present Suit.” 45. A perusal of the plaint would reveal that it refers to Article 246(1) of the Constitution which empowers the Parliament with exclusive power to make laws with respect to any of the matters enumerated in List I. It refers to Entry 80 of List I which enables the Parliament to make laws with regard to extension of the powers and jurisdiction of members of a police force belonging to any State to any area outside that State. However, the same cannot be done without the consent of the Government of the State in which such area is situated. Then, it refers to the exclusive jurisdiction of the State Legislature as recognized in Article 246(3) of the Constitution to make laws with regard to any of the matters enumerated in List II. It refers to Entries 1 and 2 which relate to public and police. Then, the plaint avers that the public and police are exclusive subject matters of the concerned State. It avers that Entry 80, List I, ensures that the Union/Centre does not transgress into the jurisdiction of the State without permission of the concerned State. It therefore avers that the CBI which draws its powers from the DSPE Act has acted in violation of the aforementioned Constitutional provisions as also the DSPE Act and then it refers to various provisions of the DSPE Act including Section 6 thereof which requires the consent of the Government of the concerned State in whose areas the jurisdiction of the CBI is being extended. Thereafter, it refers to Section 6 of the DSPE Act as a component of the concept of federalism. It avers that the provisions of Section 6 of the DSPE Act cannot be ignored or violated by the defendant. 46. In paragraph 12 of the plaint, the plaint refers to various s of this Court interpreting Sections 5(1) and 6 of the DSPE Act.