5. The matter did not end there. Even after the appellant submitted his explanation, by dated 25th April 2023, the learned Single Judge of Rajasthan High Court directed the appellant to send a list of the total number of bail applications he disposed of during February 2023 and submit copies of the s. The High Court also directed the appellant to submit a report stating whether the directions in paragraph [2024] 12 S.C.R. 685 Ayub Khan v. The State of Rajasthan 9 of the aforesaid were followed while passing s. The appellant complied with the directions by submitting a report dated 3rd May 2023. After that, the impugned dated 5th May 2023 was passed. In paragraph no. 9 of the impugned , the learned Single Judge of Rajasthan High Court observed thus: “9. Non-compliance of the judicial and administrative s of this Court by the Sessions Judge himself was a serious matter, on which a judicial dated 04.04.2023 was passed and a direction was given to obtain explanation, in pursuance of which in its letter dated 06.04.23, it was mentioned that the winter vacations were about to start soon on 20.12.2022 and due to excessive work, the details of pending criminal cases against the accused could not be recorded in the prescribed format and it was also mentioned that “in disposal of all bails, the list of pending cases against the accused in the s of the Hon’ble Court in the bail is recorded in accordance with the principles enunciated in Jugal Kishore Vs. State of Rajasthan.” 6. In paragraph 10, the learned Single Judge referred to the report submitted by the appellant pursuant to the dated 25th April 2023. It was observed that even in the bail s passed in February 2023 by the appellant, compliance with the directions was not made. Paragraphs 11 and 12 of the impugned read thus: “11. It is clear from the above discussion that despite being on an important post like Sessions Judge, the concerned Presiding Officer did not follow the judicial or administrative instructions of this Court and on being asked for explanation, took different contradictory and contrary defences at different times. An attempt has been made to mislead this Court and judicial time of this Court has been unnecessarily spent on this account. In the above circumstances, this matter is related to the disobedience of judicial instructions and judicial indiscipline, therefore a serious matter and it is necessary to bring this fact to the notice of the Honorable Chief Justice for necessary action in relation to the concerned Presiding Officer. 686 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 12. Therefore, according to the opinion and instructions expressed in para no. 08 and 11 of this , the Registrar General of this court is directed to immediately submit a copy of this with relevant documents and explanations to the Hon’ble Chief Justice.” (emphasis added) SUBMISSIONS 7. The learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant invited our attention to the and dated 18th June 2021 passed by the learned Single Judge of the Rajasthan High Court in S.B.