6. Ergo, at this stage, we are concerned mainly with Manik, Accused No. 1; Ravindra, Accused No. 2; Manohar, Accused No. 3; Hansraj, Accused No. 4 and Vishnu, Accused No. 5. As the State has not chosen to approach this Court against the dismissal of its appeal by the High Court, which was filed in the context of the acquittal of the accused under Section 302 IPC, read with Section 34 IPC, that aspect stands settled. This failure on the part of the State is, in itself, a cause for concern as this was a case of police brutality and use of third-degree methods, which ought to have prompted the State to take a more rigorous stand so as to set an example and instill discipline in its police machinery. However, the State of Maharashtra did not deem it appropriate to do so. Be that as it may. 7. Sufficient evidence having been adduced before the Trial Court, which found favour with the High Court also, my learned brother has confirmed that custodial torture of Shama stands duly proved. As pointed out by this Court in State of U.P. vs. Ram Sagar Yadav and others:1 “Police officers alone, and none else, can give evidence as regards the circumstances in which a person in their custody comes to receive injuries while in their custody. Bound by ties of a kind of brotherhood, they often prefer to remain silent in such situations and when they choose to speak, they put their own gloss upon facts and 1 [1985] 2 SCR 621 : (1985) 1 SCC 552 [2024] 9 S.C.R. 757 Manik & Ors. v. The State of Maharashtra pervert the truth. The result is that, persons on whom atrocities are perpetuated by the police in the sanctum sanctorum of the police station, are left without any evidence to prove who the offenders are”. 8. In Bhagwan Singh and another vs. State of Punjab,2 this Court observed: “If a person is in police custody, then what has happened to him is peculiarly within the knowledge of the police officials who have taken him into custody. When the other evidence is convincing enough to establish that the deceased died because of the injuries inflicted by the accused, the circumstances would only lead to an irresistible inference that the police personnel who caused his death must also have caused disappearance of the body”. 9. Given this settled legal position, it would suffice at this stage to note that several witnesses from within the police department, such as, Dilip Madhuprasad Sawwalakhe (PW-20), Shalikram Sarasram Nimkar (PW-23), Sumanbai (PW-22), and Dayaram Bakaram Sonkusare (PW-19), and independent witnesses, such as, Tejlal Karulal Pachbhaye (PW-10) and Kuwarlal Buddusao Dohare (PW-9), the staff from Hotel Anand at Balaghat, where the appellants kept Shama overnight, confirmed that Shama was injured and bleeding. His wife, Amrutabai (PW-1), stated that when she saw Shama in the police station on 18.12.1995, he was bleeding from both legs and he told her that the police had cut the veins in his legs.