Given the conduct of the defendants in this case, as contrasted with the conduct of the appellant who is ready and willing throughout to perform its part of the bargain. We think this is a fit case in which the Division Bench should be set aside. As a result, the decree passed by the Single Judge is restored. Since the appellant itself offered a sum of Rs. 1.25 crores to the Division Bench, it must be made to pay this amount to the respondents within a period of eight weeks from the date of this .” (emphasis supplied) 10.3. Thirdly, Mr. Kumar asserted that the buyer was always ready and willing to perform her part of the bargain. In fact, the buyer’s obligation to pay the balance consideration was to be fulfilled only after the sellers had performed their part of the bargain, which was to be ready to hand over the vacant possession of the property by evicting the tenants. Hence, without first performing their reciprocal promises, the sellers could not have called upon the buyer to pay the balance sale consideration. On the contrary, it was the sellers who were not ready to perform their part. Vide letter dated 22nd April 2006, the buyer demanded the sellers to produce the original title deeds which was refused by the sellers vide their letter dated 26th April 2006. Even though there was no express condition in the Agreement for production of original title deeds, but such condition is implied in the Agreement. Hence, without 12 [2020] 13 SCR 673 : 2020 SCC Online 825 [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1113 R. Kandasamy (Since Dead) & Ors. v. T.R.K. Sarawathy & Anr. the sellers having first complied with their promise, they could not have called upon the buyer to perform her part and later claim that the buyer was not ready and willing. 10.4. Taking the above into consideration, Mr. Kumar submitted, that the High Court has rightly granted the discretionary relief of specific performance in favour of the buyer. QuesTion 11. The sole question that we are tasked to decide is, whether the impugned of the High Court warrants any interdiction in exercise of our appellate jurisdiction. JudiciAl pRecedenTs 12. Before embarking on the aforesaid task, it would only be just and proper to remind ourselves of certain well-settled principles that have evolved through judicial precedents laid down by this Court on certain points which invariably arise in specific performance suits and which are relevant for the purpose of a decision on these appeals. On whether time is the essence Of the cOntract: 13. A Constitution Bench of this Court in Chand Rani v. Kamal Rani13 surveyed previous decisions on the question as to whether or not time is the essence of the contract in transactions of sale of immovable properties and appears to have made a slight departure from earlier principles by ruling as under: “25. From an analysis of the above case-law it is clear that in the case of sale of immovable property there is no presumption as to time being the essence of the contract.