(2) For the purpose of advertisement, every person- (a) using any site before the commencement of this Act, within ninety days from the date of such commencement, or (b) intending to use any site, or (c) whose licence for use of any site is about to expire. shall apply for a licence or renewal of licence, as the case may be, to the Chief Municipal Officer in such Form as may be specified by the Municipality. (3) The Chief Municipal Officer shall, after making such inspection as may be necessary and within thirty days of the receipt of the application, grant or renew a licence, as the case may be, on payment of such fee as may be determined by regulations, or refuse or cancel a licence, as the case may be. (4) The Chief Municipal Officer may, if, in his opinion, the proposed site for any advertisement is unsuitable from the considerations of public safety, traffic hazards or aesthetic design, refuse to grant a licence, or to renew any existing licence, within thirty days of the receipt of the application. (5) Every licence shall be for a period of one year except in the case of sites used for any temporary congregation of whatever nature including fairs, festivals, circus, yatra, exhibitions, sports events, or cultural or social programmes. (6) The Chief Municipal Officer shall cause to be maintained a register wherein the licences issued under this Section shall be separately recorded in respect of advertisement sites- [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1395 The Patna Municipal Corporation & Ors. v. M/s Tribro Ad Bureau & Ors. be a licence for exhibition of advertisement, and it shall be in terms of the Regulations framed therein. 18. Learned counsel submitted that the Regulations for licensing for the purpose of advertisement were issued only on 13.08.2012 whereas the Demand Notice was dated 11.02.2012, i.e. much prior to the Regulations for licence being framed. Thus, it was his contention that there was no power to charge any fee prior to 13.08.2012, in view of the Regulations framed under Section 146 of the Act, which, inter alia, also provided for licence for purposes of advertisement. Moreover, it was submitted that Section 147 of the Act provides for tax on advertisement, which also is to be determined as per the Regulations. 19. However, it was contended that in the present case, there is no Regulation for levy of taxes in terms of Section 147 read with Section 423 of the Act. In absence thereof, the Corporation could not have acted in the manner it did. 20. Learned counsel submitted that there being no statutory backing of law to issue the Office dated 02.11.2007, the demand raised under such is a nullity as there is neither any agreement nor statutory force to raise such demand and moreover, the said Office does not speak about any licence fee as licence also could not have been granted without framing the Regulations. It was further submitted that no recovery of any demand can be made by an executive unless it has legislative backing.