(3) The Assistant Commandant, a company officer or a subordinate officer, not being below the rank of subedar or inspector, commanding a separate detachment or an outpost, or in temporary command at the headquarters of the Force, may, without a formal trial, award to any member of the Force who is for the time being subject to his authority any one or more of the following punishment for the commission of any petty offence against discipline which is not otherwise provided for in this Act, or which is not of a sufficiently serious nature to require prosecution before a criminal court, that is to say,— (a) confinement for not more than seven days in the quarter-guard or such other place as may be considered suitable, with forfeiture of all pay and allowances during its continuance; (b) punishment drill, or extra guard, fatigue or other duty, for not more than thirty days with or without confinement to quarters, lines or camp; (c) censure or severe censure: Provided that this punishment may be awarded to a subordinate officer only by the Commandant. (4) A jemadar or sub-inspector who is temporarily in command of a detachment or an outpost may, in like manner and for the commission of any like offence, award to any member of the Force for the time being subject to his authority any of the punishments specified in clause (b) of sub-section (3) for not more than fifteen days. 7 18. Power to make rules: - 1) The Central Government may by notification in the official Gazette, make rules for carrying out the purposes of this Act. [2024] 6 S.C.R. 437 Union of India & Ors. v. Santosh Kumar Tiwari CRPF Act empowered the Central Government to make rules for carrying out the purposes of the Act and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, rules could be made regulating the award of punishment under Section 11. CRPF Rules, 1955 were notified by the Central Government. Rule 278 specifically provided for compulsory retirement as one of the punishments imposable on a non- gazetted officer, like the respondent. Thus, the impugned of the High Court is in ignorance of the relevant provisions of the Act as well as the rules. (b) Section 11 empowers the Commandant or any other competent authority to award in lieu of, or in addition to, suspension or dismissal anyone or more of the specified punishments. The specified punishments include removal from any office of distinction or special emolument in the Force. Dismissal is the highest of those punishments. Removal is a lesser punishment. Section 11 uses the word removal as an expression of wide amplitude so as to include any punishment that has the effect of terminating the service. As compulsory retirement also entails in (2) In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such rules may provide for all or any of the following matters, namely:- (a) regulating the classes and grades of, and the pay, pension and other remuneration of, member of the force, and their conditions of service in the force; (b) regulating the powers and duties of officers authorized to exercise any function by or under this Act; (c) fixing the period of service for members of the force; (d) regulating the award of minor punishment under section 11, and providing for appeals from, or the revision of, s under that section, or the remission of fines imposed under that section, and the remission of deductions made under section 13; (e) regulating the several or collective liability of member of the force in the case of the loss or theft of weapons and ammunition; (f) for the disposal of criminal cases arising under this Act and for specifying the prison in which a person convicted in any such case may be confined.