(d) That the composition of GEAC shall be suitably reformed bearing in mind the recommendations of the TEC and the PSC Reports and the dictum of this Court in the case of T.N. Godavarman discussed above. The reformed composition shall comprise of experts in the field of agriculture, biotechnology, ethics, sociology, health as well as experts in the field of environment and shall be an independent and autonomous body. This could be done either by a statute or amendments being brought to the existing Rules as thought fit by the respondent-Union. (e) Respondent – Union of India must ensure that all credentials and past records of any expert who participates in the decision- making process should be scrupulously verified and conflict of [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2141 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. interest, if any, should be declared and suitably mitigated by ensuring representation to wide range of interests. Rules in this regard may be formulated having statutory force. (f) The specific guidance documents referred to above in paragraph No.42 that have been adopted in conformity with the Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety (CPB) shall be complied with in letter and spirit insofar as they are applicable to the Indian context. These guidance documents shall be accorded statutory status by framing and issuing appropriate Rules under Section 25 of the EP Act, 1986. (g) In the matter of importing of GM food and more particularly GM edible oil, the respondent shall comply with the requirements of Section 23 of FSSA, 2006, which deals with packaging and labelling of foods. The aforesaid directions have been issued by me bearing in mind, Articles 14 and 21 of the Fundamental Rights; Article 48A of the Directive Principles of State Policy of the Constitution as well as the statutory framework applicable to the controversy under consideration. 51. The writ petitions are disposed of in the aforesaid terms and the civil appeal does not survive for any further consideration and hence stands disposed of. The contempt proceedings are dropped without expressing any opinion on the merits of those petitions. 1. On the following aspects, there is consensus on the Bench: That Judicial Review of the decision taken by the bodies concerned in the matter of GMOs is permissible. 2. We issue the following directions: i. The respondent-Union of India is directed to evolve a National Policy with regard to GM crops in the realm of research, cultivation, trade and commerce in the country. The said National Policy shall be formulated in consultation with all stakeholders, 2142 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports such as, experts in the field of agriculture, biotechnology, State Governments, representatives of the farmers, etc. The National Policy to be formulated shall be given due publicity. ii. For the aforesaid purpose, the MoEF&CC shall conduct a national consultation, preferably within the next four months, with the aim of formulating the National Policy on GM crops. The State Governments shall be involved in evolving the National Policy on GM crops.