[2024] 8 S.C.R. 291 : 2024 INSC 593 DLF Ltd. (Formerly Known as DLF Universal Ltd) and Anr. v. Koncar Generators and Motors Ltd. (Civil Appeal No. 7702 of 2019) 08 August 2024 [Pamidighantam Sri Narasimha* and Aravind Kumar, JJ.] Issue for Consideration The issue arising in the present appeal relates to enforcement of an arbitral award expressed in foreign currency. In this context, two questions arise for consideration. First, what is the correct and appropriate date to determine the foreign exchange rate for converting the award amount expressed in foreign currency to Indian rupees. Second, what would be the date of such conversion, when the award debtor deposits some amount before the court during the pendency of proceedings challenging the award. Headnotes† Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 – Arbitral Award – Enforcement of an arbitral award expressed in foreign currency – What is the correct and appropriate date to determine the foreign exchange rate for converting the award amount expressed in foreign currency to Indian rupees: Held: The statutory scheme of the Act makes a foreign arbitral award enforceable when the objections against it are finally decided – Therefore, as per the Act and the principle in Forasol case, the relevant date for determining the conversion rate of foreign award expressed in foreign currency is the date when the award becomes enforceable. [Para 20(i)] Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 – Arbitral Award – Enforcement of an arbitral award expressed in foreign currency – What would be the date of such conversion, when the award debtor deposits some amount before the court during the pendency of proceedings challenging the award: Held: When the award debtor deposits an amount before the court during the pendency of objections and the award holder is permitted to withdraw the same, even if against the requirement of * Author 292 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports security, this deposited amount must be converted as on the date of the deposit – After the conversion of the deposited amount, the same must be adjusted against the remaining amount of principal and interest pending under the arbitral award – This remaining amount must be converted on the date when the arbitral award becomes enforceable, i.e., when the objections against it are finally decided. [Para 20(ii)(iii)] Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 – Appellants are Indian companies and the respondent is a Croatian company – Dispute arose between the parties – Matter referred to arbitration before the International Chamber of Commerce – Arbitral tribunal passed its award dated 12.05.2004 in favour of the respondent-claimant – Appellants then filed objections against the award u/s. 48 – The appellants deposited Rs. 7.5 crores with the Executing Court on 22.10.2010 – Trial Court dismissed the objections filed u/s. 48 – Appellants filed a revision, which the High Court admitted by dated 03.06.2011 – The High Court stayed the operation of the Trial Court dismissing objections, subject to the appellants depositing a further amount of Rs. 50 lakhs, in addition to Rs.