[Paras 42, 39, 41] Reference to larger Bench – Three-Judge Bench decision in *Indian Medical Association vs. V.P. Shantha & Others holding inter alia that the wide amplitude of the definition of ‘service’ in the main part of s. 2(1)(o) of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 [2024] 6 S.C.R. 487 Bar of Indian Lawyers Through its President Jasbir Singh Malik v. D. K. Gandhi PS National Institute of Communicable Diseases and Anr. would cover the services rendered by Medical Practitioners within the said s. 2(1)(o) of the Act – Correctness: Held: Having regard to the history, object, purpose and the scheme of the CP Act and that neither the “Profession” could be treated as “business” or “trade” nor the services provided by the “Professionals” could be treated at par with the services provided by the Businessmen or the Traders, so as to bring them within the purview of the CP Act, the decision in *Indian Medical Association vs. V.P Shantha’s case to be revisited and considered by a larger bench – Thus, matter referred to Hon’ble the Chief Justice of India for consideration – Supreme Court Rules – VI r 2. [Paras 21, 24] Consumer Protection Act, 1986 – Consumer Protection Act, 2019 – Scope and object of – Intention of the legislature: Held: The said Act was enacted to provide for the better protection of the interests of the consumers against their exploitation by the traders and manufacturers of the consumer goods, and to help consumers in getting justice and fair treatment in the matter of goods and services purchased and availed by them in a market dominated by large trading and manufacturing bodies – Reasons for re-enacting the CP Act, 2019 by the Legislature, were certain shortcomings found in the CP Act 1986 while administering the said Act, and due to the emergence of global supply chains, rise in international trade and rapid development of ecommerce leading to new systems for goods and services, new options and opportunities had become available to the consumers – New forms of unfair trade and unethical business practices also came to be developed, which made the consumers more vulnerable – Furthermore, there was not a whisper in the statement of objects and reasons either of the CP Act, 1986 or 2019 to include the Professions or the Services provided by the Professionals like Advocates, Doctors etc. within the purview of the Act – Professionals could not be called Businessmen or Traders, nor Clients or Patients be called Consumers. [Paras 12, 14, 15] Words and phrases – Definition of term “Profession” – Meaning and explanation of: Held: “Profession” would require advanced education and training in some branch of learning or science – Nature of work is also skilled and specialised one, substantial part of which would be 488 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports mental rather than manual – Thus, having regard to the nature of work of a professional, which requires high level of education, training and proficiency and which involves skilled and specialized kind of mental work, operating in the specialized spheres, where achieving success would depend upon many other factors beyond a man’s control, a Professional cannot be treated equally or at par with a Businessman or a Trader or a Service provider of products or goods as contemplated in the Consumer Protection Act – Similarly, services rendered by Businessman or Trader to consumers with regard to his goods or products cannot be equated with the Services provided by Professional to his clients with regard to his specialized branch of profession.