Sale is one of the methods employed for execution. Rule 89 of XXI of the CPC is the only means by which a -debtor can escape from a sale that has been validly carried out. The object of the rule is to provide a last opportunity to put an end to the dispute at the instance of the -debtor before the sale is confirmed by the court and also to save his property from dispossession. 39. We are of the view that even otherwise the provisions of the CPC do not apply to writ petitions under Article 226 of the Constitution of India except some of the principles enshrined therein like res judicata, delay and laches, addition of parties, matters which have not been specifically dealt with by the writ rules framed by the respective High Court. Position Prior to 1976 40. Before the Code of Civil Procedure (Amendment) Act, 1976, Section 141 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 read as under: “Miscellaneous proceedings.- The procedure provided in this Code in regard to suits shall be followed, as far as it can be made applicable, in all proceedings in any court of civil jurisdiction.” 41. There was cleavage of opinion on the question whether the provisions of the Code would apply to writ proceedings under the Constitution. Some High Court had held that writ petitions could be said to be proceedings in ‘any court of civil jurisdiction’ within the meaning of Section 141 of the CPC. According to other High Courts, however, writ proceedings, being special in nature, were not covered by Section 141 and the provisions of the Code were not applicable to writ petitions. 42. In State of U.P. v. Vijay Anand reported in AIR 1963 SC 946, drawing the distinction between ordinary civil jurisdiction and extraordinary civil jurisdiction, a Constitution Bench of this Court stated:- [2024] 7 S.C.R. 515 M/s Al-Can Export Pvt. Ltd. v. Prestige H.M. Polycontainers Ltd. & Ors. “It is, therefore, clear from the nature of the power conferred under Article 226 of the Constitution and the decisions on the subject that the High Court in exercise of its power under Article 226 of the Constitution exercises original jurisdiction, though the said jurisdiction shall not be confused with the ordinary civil jurisdiction of the High Court. This jurisdiction, though original in character as contrasted with its appellate and revisional jurisdiction, is exercisable throughout the territories in relation to which it exercises jurisdiction and may, for convenience, be described as extraordinary original jurisdiction.” (Emphasis supplied) 43. Again, in Babubhai Muljibhai Patel v. Nandlal Khodidas Barot reported in (1974) 2 SCC 706, construing the words ‘as far as it can be made applicable’ in Section 141 of the CPC (prior to Amendment of 1976), this Court observed: “10. It is not necessary for this case to express an opinion on the point as to whether the various provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure apply to petitions under Article 226 of the Constitution. Section 141 of the Code, to which reference has been made, makes it clear that the provisions of the Code in regard to suits shall be followed in all proceedings in any court of civil jurisdiction as far as it can be made applicable.