9 The above directions clearly flow out of the first direction contained in paragraph 34 of the dated 16 February 2022. This was subject to the further stipulation in direction (iii) that they will not be entitled to any arrears of salary, but the arrears of pension would be payable with effect from the date on which they are deemed to have completed twenty years of service. 10 Based on the clarification, the one time pensionary payment due in terms of the dated 16 November 2022 shall be revised and arrears that remain due and payable shall be paid on or before 15 June 2024. 11 Apart from the above direction, further clarifications of this Court are necessary on the following issues: (i) The computation of the commuted value of the pensionary payment; (ii) Encashment of annual leave; and (iii) Grant of ECHS benefits. 12 As regards (i) above, the commuted value shall be computed as on the date of the deemed completion of twenty years. The commutation 3 SSCOs 522 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports factor shall, therefore, be that which was applicable on the date of the deemed completion of twenty years. The arrears that remain to be paid shall be paid over on or before 15 June 2024. 13 As regards the encashment of annual leave, in the event that any of the officers is found to have accumulated the maximum of 300 days in respect of which encashment is allowable, the difference between the encashable quantum of 300 days and the amount which has already been released shall be computed and paid over on or before 15 June 2024. 14 The officers governed by this batch and other similarly placed officers would be entitled to ECHS benefits as retired officers. 15 Apart from the above directions, Mr R Balasubramanian clarifies that while the PPO indicated that it will be for “life”, this would not in any way debar the appellants from the benefit of any revised fixation of pension as and when it becomes due and payable. The PPOs, it has been submitted, shall also be corrected, since they erroneously referred to the applicants as having been ‘released’. This shall be corrected in terms of the dated 16 November 2022 before 15 June 2024. 16 The above directions resolve the grievances of the appellants- applicants. Accordingly, the Miscellaneous Application shall stand disposed of. 17 Pending application, if any, stands disposed of. Headnotes prepared by: Nidhi Jain Result of the case: Application disposed of.