***” (emphasis supplied) 26. The position that emerges from the above extract is that the dated 28th March, 2000 cancelling permission to run the T.G. set was stayed, subject to the first respondent depositing the minimum guarantee charges. It was open to the first respondent not to pay but that would have involved the risk of not operating the T.G. set. If, indeed, the first respondent was not interested in running the T.G. set, it could have withdrawn the writ petition then and there; or, it could have subjected such to an appeal. The first respondent did not carry the in appeal and, thus, the attained finality. 27. That the first respondent was duly interested in the outcome of the first writ petition and to obtain an for running the T.G. set is clear from what happened thereafter. The first show cause notice was issued demanding Rs 70,50,478/- (Rupees seventy lakhs fifty thousand four hundred and seventy eight only). This was the trigger for the miscellaneous petition which the first respondent filed, subjecting the first show cause notice to challenge. Although the miscellaneous petition is not on record, the first respondent in its ‘List of Dates’ handed over to us at the time of hearing conceded that the “Respondent Company challenged the First Show Cause Notice by way of M(W)P 230/2000 in WP 677/2000, which was disposed of vide dated 14 February 2001 ...”. While disposing of the miscellaneous petition in favour of the appellants and against the first respondent, the High Court vide its dated 14th February, 2001 held as follows: “Earlier on 4.5.2000 this court has categorically ed that petitioner shall pay the respondents minimum guarantee charge as per agreement with respondents. The petitioner 360 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports is bound to pay the minimum guarantee amount whether electricity is consumed or not. This is subject to modification if some rules for generating sets are framed by the respondents electricity board. The question of recovery of bill on T.G. set is not warranted unless the rules for recovery are produced. Petition is disposed of.” (emphasis supplied) 28. This too went unchallenged by the first respondent and was allowed to attain finality with the effect that the first show cause notice stood upheld by the High Court, though by an interim . 29. There is, also, no record of the first respondent having made payment pursuant to the aforementioned s, despite acceptance thereof (the s) by conduct. In fact, it is an undisputed position as would appear from the aforesaid factual narrative that the first respondent did not obey the s foisting liability on it for payment of the minimum guarantee charges; on the contrary, on 21st February, 2006, the first respondent withdrew the first writ petition, with liberty to represent the matter before the appellants owing to some change in policy with regard to running of T.G. sets. In effect, despite the s dated 04th May, 2000 and 14th February, 2001 staring at its face, the first respondent avoided a decision on the merits of the writ petition and effectively foreclosed its right to have the demand towards minimum guarantee charges nullified.