He submitted that after the second respondent received all the money he had paid under the agreements for sale, the prosecution of the first complaint was nothing but an abuse of the process of law. 9. The learned counsel appearing for the second respondent supported the impugned and submitted that the High Court was correct in not allowing the appellants to re-open the issue, which was closed by the passed in the earlier criminal revision application filed by the appellants. The learned counsel appearing for the respondent state also supported the impugned . CONSIDERATION OF SUBMISSIONS 10. The agreements for sale were executed by the appellants and another Trustee of the said Trust for the sale of two properties described as Schedule ‘A’ and Schedule ‘B’ and for consideration of Rs.2.75 crores and Rs.1.50 crores, respectively. The averments made in paragraph 3 of the suit filed by the second respondent and his brother, Uma Shankar, disclose that they paid the earnest money of Rs.28,01,000/- to the appellants by separate demand drafts. The allegation in the suit is that by another agreement dated 17th February 2004, the appellants agreed to execute and register the sale deed in favour of the second respondent and his brother regarding the properties subject matter of the agreements. According to the case of the second respondent and his brother, the suit for specific performance was filed as the appellants refused to execute the deed. 132 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 11. In the first complaint (subject matter of this appeal) bearing C/1Case No.1027 of 2007 filed by the second respondent, the facts stated in the plaint have been reiterated. It is alleged that the appellants have refused to execute the sale deed. It is claimed that as TISCO Ltd. had objected to the execution of the sale deed in terms of the agreements, a fresh agreement was executed on 17th February 2004 on request made by the appellants. After that, the second respondent referred to a suit for specific performance. It is alleged in the complaint that the first appellant herein had executed a power of attorney in favour of one Kishan, who was the fifth accused and subsequently, on 23rd October 2005, the first appellant transferred the property symbolically in favour of one Ashish, who was the fourth accused. After that, there is a reference in the complaint to the application dated 8th May 2007 made by Uma Shankar to withdraw the suit for specific performance. The application is alleged to be a false document that Uma Shankar created by entering a conspiracy with the present appellants. Therefore, the offences punishable under Sections 468, 420, 406, 424 and Section 120-B of the IPC were alleged. Cognizance was taken on the said complaint by the Criminal Court. Uma Shankar was transposed as a defendant in the suit for specific performance. 12. What is material here is the application dated 11th November 2008, admittedly filed by the second respondent as a plaintiff in the suit for specific performance.