13. Thus, it is apparent that vide clause (a) of sub- section (7) of Section 31 of the Act, Parliament intended that an award for payment of money may be inclusive of interest, and the “sum” of the [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1607 North Delhi Municipal Corporation v. M/s. S.A. Builders Ltd. principal amount plus interest may be directed to be paid by the Arbitral Tribunal for the pre-award period. Thereupon, the Arbitral Tribunal may direct interest to be paid on such “sum” for the post-award period vide clause (b) of sub-section (7) of Section 31 of the Act, at which stage the amount would be the sum arrived at after the merging of interest with the principal; the two components having lost their separate identities. 14. In fact this is a case where the language of sub-section (7) clauses (a) and (b) is so plain and unambiguous that no question of construction of a statutory provision arises. The language itself provides that in the sum for which an award is made, interest may be included for the pre-award period and that for the post-award period interest up to the rate of eighteen per cent per annum may be awarded on such sum directed to be paid by the arbitral award. 41.3. The majority declared that S.L. Arora (supra) was wrongly decided in that it holds that a sum directed to be paid by an arbitral tribunal and the reference to the award on the substantive claim does not refer to interest pendente lite awarded on the sum directed to be paid upon award and that in the absence of any provision of interest upon interest in the contract, the arbitral tribunal does not have the power to award interest upon interest or compound interest either for the pre-award period or for the post-award period. It has been clarified that the ‘sum’ includes the principal as adjudged together with the interest granted. 42. A three-Judge Bench of this Court in UHL Power Company Limited Vs. State of Himachal Pradesh,9 declared that the in S.L. Arora (supra) has since been overruled by a three-Judge Bench of this Court in M/s. Hyder Consulting (UK) Ltd. (supra). The majority view in M/s. Hyder Consulting (UK) Ltd. (supra) is that post-award interest can be granted by an arbitrator on the interest amount awarded. 9 (2022) 4 SCC 116 1608 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 43. The question as to whether the sum awarded under clause (a) of sub-Section (7) of Section 31 of the 1996 Act will include interest pendente lite or not again came up for consideration before a two- Judge Bench of this Court in Delhi Airport Metro Express Private Limited Vs. Delhi Metro Rail Corporation.10 The Bench referred to the decision of this Court in M/s. Hyder Consulting (UK) Ltd (supra) and held as follows: 15. It could thus be seen that the majority view of this Court in Hyder Consulting (UK) is that the sum awarded may include the principal amount and such interest as the Arbitral Tribunal deems fit.