Further, while the quality of information has immediate and far- reaching implications for a particular enterprise, it eventually permeates to the market and the economy as a whole. It is therefore not surprising to find that the accounting profession is being constantly challenged to meet the demands for quality information. As key providers and verifiers of information, the bottom-line is simple: the higher the quality and integrity maintained by the profession, the stronger and more resilient will our markets be. By providing the foundation for compilation of credible financial statements, the accounting profession facilitates market discipline, engenders confidence among various stakeholders and reduces the possibility of misleading information that can disrupt stability of financial systems. Therefore, the need for quality assessments particularly under Section 44AB of the IT Act, 1961. 49.4 In the public discourse on governance, we find that the corporate governance agenda garners attention only during times when the Country is faced with the most notorious corporate scams. Shareholder democracy has come to stay and Chartered Accountants are the gatekeepers of this new corporate world which poses challenges as well as unprecedented opportunities. Thus, the importance of integrity of auditing functions for maintaining financial stability is now well-recognised. 49.5 More importantly, Chartered Accountants must themselves comply with the relevant laws and regulations and avoid any conduct that discredits the profession. Needless to specify that Chartered Accountants must refuse to represent clients who insist on resorting to unfair means. Chartered accountants are relevant not only in securing corporate governance, but governance in broader contexts too. 49.6 Chartered Accountants face many different responsibilities: to the profession; to the tax administration; to the client and to the economy at large. In that context, we stress on the importance of preserving their independence of view and integrity; to separate their client-advisory role from their role as public citizens seeking to improve the functioning of the tax machinery of the Nation. [2024] 6 S.C.R. 863 Shaji Poulose v. Institute of Chartered Accountants of India & Others Integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care and confidentiality must be the doctrines guiding their work ethic. Conclusion: 50. In the circumstances, we dispose of the writ petitions in the following manner: a) Clause 6.0, Chapter VI of the Guidelines dated 08.08.2008 and its subsequent amendment is valid and is not violative of Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution as it is a reasonable restriction on the right to practise the profession by a Chartered Accountant and is protected or justifiable under Article 19(6) of the Constitution. b) However, the said clause 6.0, Chapter VI of the Guidelines dated 08.08.2008 and its subsequent amendment is deemed not to be given effect to till 01.04.2024. c) Consequently, all proceedings initiated pursuant to the impugned Guideline in respect of the writ petitioners and other similarly situated Chartered Accountants stand quashed. d) Liberty is reserved to the respondent-Institute to enhance the specified number of audits that a Chartered Accountant can undertake under Section 44AB of the IT Act, 1961, if it deems fit.