1033 Union of India Rep. by The Inspector of Police National Investigation Agency Chennai Branch v. Barakathullah etc. A-7 Barakathullah The role and involvement of A-7 Barakathullah is sought to be made out from the statements of LW-86/PW-B and LW-122/PW-H. A-8 Yasar Arafat The role ad involvement of A-8 Yasar Arafat is sought to be made out from the statements of LW-67, LW-68, LW-69, LW- 126/PW-A, LW-89/PW-C, LW-93/PW-D and LW-108/PW-E. A-9 Fayaz The role ad involvement of A-9 Fayaz Ahmed Ahmed is sought to be made out from the statements of LW-81, LW-82, LW-83 and LW-88 16. As transpiring from the material on record, the PFI was registered under the Societies Registration Act, having an organizational set up as contained in its constitution. All the respondents-accused were the members or office bearers of the said organization at the relevant time. As alleged in the chargesheet, though the PFI was projecting itself as an organization fighting for the rights of minorities, Dalits and marginalized communities, it was pursuing a covert agenda to radicalize particular section of the society and to work towards undermining the concept of democracy and integrity of India. The investigation disclosed that the activities and undeclared objectives of PFI had strong communal and anti-national agenda to establish an Islamic rule in India by radicalization of Muslims and communalization of issues. After recruitment as members of PFI, they were motivated towards violent terrorist activities by providing training through beginners course and advanced training courses. During the training courses, physical education classes were conducted in which members were taught to attack, assault, maim and murder with bare hands. The training was also given as to how to use weapons like knives and swords and how to hurl bombs. It appears that within few days of the arrest of the respondents on 22.09.2022, the PFI was declared as an “unlawful association” and was banned by the Government of India under the UAPA. We need not elaborate on the allegations made by the protected/listed witnesses stating the role and involvement of each of the respondents, who were either members or the office bearers of the PFI. Suffice it to say that, there is sufficient material in the form of statements of witnesses and other incriminating evidence in the form of digital devices, books, photographs etc. collected during the course of investigation and 1034 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports relied upon by the appellant as recorded in the chargesheet, to form an opinion that there are reasonable grounds for believing that the accusations against the respondents-accused are prima facie true. 17. As stated in Watali’s case, the material/evidence collated by the Investigating Agency in reference to the accusation against each of the accused concerned in the chargesheet would prevail until rebutted, contradicted and overcome or disproved by other evidence. The material collated and statements of witnesses recorded also show prima facie complicity of the respondents-accused in the commission of the alleged offences, which material/evidence is good and sufficient on its face to establish the facts constituting the alleged offences, till such material/evidence is rebutted or contradicted.