Earlier, on behalf of respondent Nos. 1 to 3 counter affidavit was filed fully justifying the impugned . On behalf of the respondent No. 4 also, a counter affidavit was filed, evidently, on the same line. Pursuant to the dated 18.08.2023, virtually, permitting continuance of investigation in Crime No. 28/2018 in respect of the allegation of commission of offence under Section 313 IPC, investigation in that regard was continued and completed. Thereupon, an additional affidavit was filed on behalf of the first respondent - State with respect to the status of investigation and the same, insofar as it is relevant, reads thus: - “6. That pursuant to the direction, the investigating officer had conducted investigation with respect to offence u/s 313 IPC and after due investigation and material available on record, including her statement, medical reports etc. has concluded that there is no evidence/ 644 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports material available with respect to offence u/s 313 IPC i.e. no material substantiating abortion of the victim in the present offence and hence as on 02.02.2024 omitted offence u/s 313, IPC. 7. That the investigation u/s 376 is still pending as the same is stayed by this Hon’ble Court.” 7. In view of the statement in the afore-extracted paragraph 6 and 7, the undisputed position obtained that the allegation of commission of offence under Section 313, IPC stands omitted against the appellant. What survives for consideration is only the question whether the impugned invites interference and the subject FIR be quashed invoking the inherent jurisdiction? 8. We have already taken note of the facts revealed from the subject FIR itself that the time of occurrence of offence is allegedly, from 05.01.2013 to 05.01.2018 and that it was registered only at 21.34 hrs. on 21.02.2018. That apart, it is evident that even going by respondent No. 4, the complainant herself and the appellant were living as husband and wife. The complaint of respondent no. 4, as is revealed therefrom, is that the appellant had deceived her by promising to marry and then by establishing physical relationship. At the risk of repetition, we will have to refer to the FIR, carrying the following recitals from her complaint: “… Lalu Yadav S/o Seshnath Yadav R/o Atarsuya P.S. Nandganj District- Ghazipur, used to come to my house along with the brother-in-law Ravindra Yadav of my elder sister, at that time about five years back I was a student of High School, then the said Lalu Yadav by way of deceiving myself promise that he will marry me and established physical relationship with me without my consent and started living with me as the husband.” (underline supplied) 9. At the very outset, it is to be noted that there is a huge irregularity between the statements “established physical relationship with me without my consent” and “started living with me as the husband”. Be that as it may, bearing in mind the allegations raised by respondent No. 4 reflected in the subject FIR, we will refer to the relevant decisions of this Court.