It was also contended that the appellant-complainant and 15 other persons with him were present at the mosque and not at his residence, as recorded in the chargesheet and they were the ones who had badly assaulted Waseem’s brother, entered his residence and thrashed his family members. Aggrieved by the same, when Waseem’s mother (Ms. Saeeda Begum) had filed a Complaint Case on 07th July, 2020 before the Court of the Additional Magistrate-I, Meerut, an was passed directing the police to register an FIR33 against 15 persons. A closure report was filed by the local police but the Judicial Magistrate did not accept the same and has directed further investigation in the matter. 18. Learned counsel for the respondents submitted that the real reason behind the dispute between the appellant-complainant and his family members and the accused and his family members related to political rivalry as the appellant-complainant had lost the election for the post of Village Pradhan and then proceeded to falsely implicate the accused persons. 19. Learned counsel argued that where there are two bullet injuries, one each to the two deceased by three assailants, there is a possibility of over-implication of the accused persons. Finally, an assurance has sought to be extended to this Court that the respondents will not abscond as they are permanent residents of the village and they shall continue cooperating for timely completion of the trial. 20. Mr. Sarvesh Singh Baghel, learned counsel appearing for the respondent No. 2 – State of Uttar Pradesh has filed a counter affidavit34 supporting the case of the appellant-complainant and stating inter alia that the High Court did not consider the fact that 33 Case Crime No. 361 of 2020 under Section 147, 148, 149, 452, 323, 307, 34, 504 and 506 of IPC 34 In Special Leave Petition (Crl.) No. 513 of 2023 [2024] 5 S.C.R. 589 Ajwar v. Waseem and Another the present case involves a serious offence. There are accounts of eye-witnesses that have categorically specified the role of the accused-respondents and that there was a definite motive to commit the offence and injuries were caused intentionally that had resulted in the death of the two deceased persons. It was further submitted that there is a likelihood of the accused persons influencing the trial and threatening the eye-witnesses. QUESTION INVOLVED 21. We have heard learned counsels for the parties, carefully examined the records and the impugned s. The short question that falls for our consideration is whether the High Court was justified in exercising jurisdiction under Section 439(1) of the Cr.P.C for granting regular bail in favour of the respondents in the facts and circumstances of the present case. FIRST ROUND OF LITIGATION 22. As noted above, this is the third time that the appellant-complainant has approached this Court for relief. Earlier hereto, aggrieved by the dated 4th of August, 2022, passed by the learned Single Judge of High Court of judicature at Allahabad, directing release of Niyaz Ahmad (father of the accused, Waseem) in connection with the very same case, the appellant-complainant had filed an appeal35.