Before narrating the facts, we should bear in mind that exercise of power under Section 227, Cr.PC, is legally permissible only by considering ‘the record of the case and the documents submitted therewith’. Therefore, necessarily, the question is what is the meaning of the expression ‘the record of the case and documents submitted therewith’? According to us, it refers only to the materials produced by the prosecution and not by the accused. A three-Judge Bench of this Court considered this question in State of Orissa v. Debendra Nath Padhi.1 It was held that the said expression as postulated in Section 227, Cr.PC, relate to the case and the documents referred to under Section 209, Cr.PC. Section 209, Cr.PC, reads thus:- “209. Commitment of case to Court of Session when offence is triable exclusively by it. — When in a case instituted on a police report or otherwise, the accused appears or is brought before the Magistrate and it appears to the Magistrate that the offence is triable exclusively by the Court of Session, he shall — 1 [2004] Supp. 6 SCR 460 : (2005) 1 SCC 568 1160 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (a) commit, after complying with the provisions of section 207 or section 208, as the case may be, the case to the Court of Session, and subject to the provisions of this Code relating to bail, remand the accused to custody until such commitment has been made; (b) subject to the provisions of this Code relating to bail, remand the accused to custody during, and until the conclusion of, the trial; (c) send to that Court the record of the case and the documents and articles, if any, which are to be produced in evidence; (d) notify the Public Prosecutor of the commitment of the case to the Court of Session.” In view of Section 209, Cr.PC, as extracted above, to know what exactly are the documents falling within the said expression Sections 207 and 208, Cr.PC, are also to be looked into. 4. We referred to the provisions under Section 227 and the decision in Debendra Nath Padhi’s case (supra) only to conclude that even for the purpose of referring to the facts leading to the case, as also for consideration of the contentions for the purpose of Section 227, Cr.PC, we cannot refer to the grounds carrying or referring to the case of the appellant-accused, in view of the aforesaid provisions of law and position of law, requiring to confine such consideration only with reference to the materials produced by the prosecution. 5. Now, we will refer to the facts leading to the case, as per the prosecution and as per the materials falling within the purview of Section 227, Cr.PC. 6. The appellant, who is the owner of Goodwill Enterprises dealing with wood, registered Case Crime No.351 of 1993 under Section 392 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (for short ‘the IPC’) at Police Station Modi Nagar, District Ghaziabad, alleging that his cashier/accountant- Ram Kishore and one Pappu Yadav went for collecting his business proceeds from shops at Meerut and Modi Nagar in the morning of 15.07.1993.