Having directed that the proceedings be conducted in consonance with the principles of natural justice, the High Court overstepped its limits and took unto itself a duty which the Act entrusts the statutory authority to exercise. The High Court could, at best, have moulded relief as deemed fit and proper, but in framing issues for the Inquiry Officer to determine, the High Court went far beyond its domain by substituting its own wisdom for that of the civil court. 23. Now, it would be apt to examine the points of determination framed by the High Court and decide how far the same are justified on facts and in the circumstances and whether the same were, at all, necessary. The points can be classified into six categories, which we shall delineate and address hereunder. 24. The first two points framed by the High Court pertain to the status of the subject premises and the nature of occupation thereof by the residents. Determination of these issues stands barred by res judicata, a previous bench of the High Court having answered the same against the respondents vide and dated 06th January, 2017 by expressly holding that the allotments not having been made to the respondents independent of their identity as municipal servants, they could not stake any claim therein. This decision attained finality by the dismissal of the special leave petition by this Court vide dated 01st May, 2017. 860 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 25. The third and fourth points touch upon the aspect as to whether the proceedings initiated under section 105B of the Act are barred by limitation. Reference has been made by the High Court to section 3 of the Limitation Act, 1963.9 We are at a loss to comprehend as to how section 3, scope whereof is relatable to proceedings like suits, appeals and applications before judicial fora, could have been attracted to eviction proceedings before the Inquiry Officer which, though obliging the Inquiry Officer to discharge quasi-judicial functions in course thereof, yet, are basically administrative in character. Additionally, in referring to Article 137 , the High Court ignored and/or overlooked the Preamble of the Limitation Act and the heading of the Third Division under the Schedule read with sections 2(j) and section 3. 26. The fifth and sixth points framed by the High Court pertain to the right of the respondents to remain in possession by virtue of section 53A of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882. It is alleged that the first appellant instead of resuming possession of the subject premises had retained the retirement benefits of the respondents as monetary consideration for converting the nature of possession from that of a licensee to that of an owner. We leave this point open for the Inquiry Officer to determine, if at all the respondents raise the same before him, bearing in mind the fact that such point is not in the nature of a demurrer which could be raised for nipping the proceedings in the bud for lack of jurisdiction and, thus, had not been examined in the previous round of litigation.