E. PASSED BY THE LEARNED SINGLE JUDGE 18. At this stage, we should also look into the passed by the learned single judge of the High Court dated 05.08.2014. The relevant findings recorded by the learned single Judge is as under:- [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2191 Army Welfare Education Society New Delhi v. Sunil Kumar Sharma & Ors. Etc. “10. As we have seen, the school in question was earlier known as “St. Gabriel School” which was under the management of a Society, namely, respondent no.4 i.e. St. Gabriel Province of Delhi. Now the management has changed and is presently with respondent no.5/Bengal Sappers St. Gabriel’s Academy, Roorkee. 11. According to the respondents, referred above, the establishment of school in an Army Unit or Regimental Center is a welfare activity which a Unit or Regimental Center undertakes for the welfare of its personnel and troops and this welfare work does not form apart of any official or statutory duty of the officers of the Army so engaged in the school activity and, therefore, the school activity including its administration is entirely a private enterprises undertaken by the officers and staff of the Indian Army for the welfare of their personnel and their dependents. 12. The said respondents (Respondent Nos. 2, 3, 5, 7) further argue that in such a welfare activity, the Government or the Indian Army does not have any control or a role to play, leave aside any deep or pervasive control on the administration or running of the School, as is alleged by the petitioners. They also argue that the welfare activities which are undertaken are financed entirely by raising private funds, primarily from private contributions, by the officers and men of various military establishments. The fund is known as “Regimental Fund of the Unit” and is purely private in nature and non-auditable by Central Defence Accounts. The building furniture and equipments provided to respondent nos. 3/Bengal Engineering Group Benevolent Trust and earlier to respondent no.4/ Institute of Brothers of St. Gabriel is provided from the Regimental funds which is purely private property of Bengal Engineering Group Benevolent Trust. There is no Central Government control at all. It is further being argued that respondent nos. 1, 2 i.e. Union of India as well as the Bengal Engineering Group and Centre have been made parties in the writ petition with the sole purpose to make the matter amenable to the writ jurisdiction of this Court, under Article 226 of the 2192 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Constitution of India, though respondent nos. 1 and 2 do not have any role to play in the present matter or dispute and for the remaining respondents who are presently in control of the affairs of the school a writ petition would not be maintainable. 13. It has also been argued that the Commandant of Bengal Engineering Group and Centre, Roorkee is only the Ex-officio Chairman of the Bengal Engineering Group Benevolent Trust and the welfare activity conducted by the Trust are purely honorary having absolutely no relation to official charter of the duty of army officers and army persons.