(ii) Whether the decision to grant approval for environmental release of DMH-11 violates the right to safe and healthy environment under Article 21? (iii) Whether GEAC’s grant of approval dated 18.10.2022 and the decision dated 25.10.2022 for the environmental release of DMH-11 violate the precautionary principle? (iv) What ? Since there is a difference of opinion between the Members of this Bench vis-à-vis the validity of the decision taken for environmental release of DMH-11, from this stage onwards, I propose to opine for myself while my learned brother Karol, J. has prepared his separate opinion. Legal Framework: 22. Before I proceed further, it would be useful to note that agriculture, including agricultural education and research, protection against pests and prevention of plant diseases, is a State subject enumerated as Entry 14 in List II (State List). Trade and commerce in, and the production, supply and distribution of, inter alia, foodstuffs, including edible oil seeds and oils, is in Entry 33(b) in List III (Concurrent List) of the Seventh Schedule. Rules and regulations made under the EP Act, 1986 are possibly referrable to Entry 97 of List I (Union List) since environment protection has not been specifically mentioned in either List II or List III of the Seventh Schedule, except for forest. For ease of reference, the aforesaid Entries of the Seventh Schedule as well as others are extracted as under: “Entry 52, List I: 52. Industries, the control of which by the Union is declared by Parliament by law to be expedient in the public interest. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2051 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. Entry 97, List I: 97. Any other matter not enumerated in List II or List III including any tax not mentioned in either of those Lists. Entry 6, List II: 6. Public health and sanitation; hospitals and dispensaries. Entry 14, List II: 14. Agriculture, including agricultural education and research, protection against pests and prevention of plant diseases. Entry 33(b), List III: 33. Trade and commerce in, and the production, supply and distribution of,- … … … (b) foodstuffs, including edible oilseeds and oils;” 22.1 Article 48A of the Constitution of India is a Directive Principle of State Policy which speaks about protection and improvement of environment and safeguarding of forests and wild life. Likewise, Article 51A(g) casts upon citizens a fundamental duty to protect and improve the natural environment including forests, lakes, rivers and wildlife. These Articles have to be read in the context of Article 21 of the Constitution, which has been expansively interpreted by this Court to include within its scope and ambit of the right to health and clean environment and ecology. For ready reference, the aforesaid Articles are extracted as under: “21. Protection of life and personal liberty.— No person shall be deprived of his life or personal liberty except according to procedure established by law. x x x 48A. Protection and improvement of environment and safeguarding of forests and wild life.—The State shall endeavour to protect and improve the 2052 [2024] 7 S.C.R.