(iv) Such asymmetry becomes especially acute in light of the long acknowledged disparity between polluters and those adversely affected by pollution. A reference to this Court’s in Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai vs. Ankita Sinha, (2022) 13 SCC 401 (“Ankita Sinha”) would be relevant as it recognized the asymmetrical relationship between the polluters and those affected by their actions in the following words: “78. When substantive justice is elusive for a large segment, disengaging with substantive rights at the very altar, for a perceived procedural lacuna, would surely bring in a process, which furthers inequality, both economic and social. An “equal footing” conception may not therefore be feasible to adequately address the asymmetrical relationship between the polluters and those affected by their actions. Instead, a recognition of the historical experience of marginalised classes of persons while accessing and effectively using the legal system, will allow for necessary appreciation of social realities and balancing the arm of justice.” 43.2 Nothing explains this asymmetry better than the subsisting grievance of the petitioners about the failure to make the biosafety dossier, i.e., the primary data on which the AFES report is based, accessible to affected parties, i.e., the farmers, the farm workers, the consumers, other experts in the field and [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2119 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. the citizenry at large, thereby, seriously undermining the right to environmental information. This is more so because such denial of access to environmental information is in contravention of the of this Court dated 08.04.2008 and subsequent dated 12.08.2008. The dated 08.04.2008 records that in the absence of toxicity and allergenicity data, the members of the public and the scientists would not be able to make effective representations to the concerned authorities. It was on the solemn assurance of the then ASG - that the said primary data pertaining to field trials will be placed in the public domain and on the website of GEAC - that this Court had disposed of the applications made by the petitioner. There has been absolute non-adherence of the said assurance. I also note that the Reply Affidavit filed by the Union of India had specifically stated that the full dossier could not be made available on the website and that an independent review of such a dossier by members of the public would undermine the credibility of the extant regulatory regime. 43.3 I observe that the right to environmental information comes within the scope of the right to information, which came to be articulated by this court in State of Uttar Pradesh vs. Raj Narain, (1975) 4 SCC 428, para 74 (“Raj Narain”), as the public’s right to know every public act that is done by public functionaries subject, of course, to absolute secrecy to be maintained in certain circumstances. It is also a critical aspect of the right to freedom of speech and expression, vide Chief Information Commissioner vs. State of Manipur, (2011) 15 SCC 1 (“Chief Information Commissioner”). Disclosure of information is the rule in our system of open governance, and secrecy is an exception vide S. P. Gupta vs. Union of India, (1981) Supp SCC 87 (para 67) (“S.