SRG has taken care of the company for the last 20 years and has provided services without any renumeration. In view thereof, for exiting Deegee, SRG is expecting compensation of Rs.25 crores (b) Millennium and SRG are also expecting interest 14.50% till repayment of the amount lent to AMP JRS Group has suggested that we may have another meeting and try to take it forward”. (Emphasis supplied) 914 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 20. Further on 21.11.2022, the JRS Group sent another WhatsApp message to the AMP Group stating that it had spoken to the SRG Group and that if the AMP Group was not ready to recognise SRG’s contribution in the growth of Deegee, it would be difficult for them to agree with the AMP Group on any point. The contents of the message are reproduced hereinbelow: “Talked with SRG and here is the response- As he understands from me that AMP group is looking forward for meeting with SRG to discuss the points forwarded by SRG, however AMP Grp would not like to give any compensation for Deegee to SRG. As per SRG, if AMP Grp is not even ready to recognize his contribution in growth of Deegee, then it would be difficult for him to meet AMP Grp for any point and thereby the points sent by SRG shall be considered as non existent and should not be referred any time in future.” (Emphasis supplied) 21. Vide email dated 16.05.2023 sent to the AMP Group, Mr. Kalpesh Parmar conveyed that he would discuss with SRG and try to resolve all matters pertaining to Deegee and would also intimate the outcome of his discussion. It was also conveyed that Millenium can be simultaneously worked out once Deegee is settled. The contents of the email are reproduced hereinbelow: “Dear Nihar, Based on my discussions with JRSG, following are the comments: […] 4. All Deegee points we will discuss and try to resolve with SRG and Jabalpur Group. The outcome, we will update you. However, we expect to complete other companies/ entities as per excel chart, which is concerning only JRSG & AMPG, subject to the comments herein without putting any deadlines for Deegee. 5. About Millenium, once Deegee is settled. Millenium can be simultaneously worked out. [2024] 9 S.C.R. 915 Ajay Madhusudan Patel & Ors. v. Jyotrindra S. Patel & Ors. 6. Escrow should be released along with the signing of consent terms of Aurosagar. 7. As informed earlier Aurosagar’s SPOA & Lease Deed points can be directly dealt with SRG. You may consider above comments and discuss. You may thereafter make necessary changes in your comments in the excel file and resend it”. (Emphasis supplied) 22. Since mediation between the parties yielded no result, the JRS Group sent an Arbitration Notice dated 11.12.2023 to the AMP Group invoking Clauses 7.2 and 7.3 respectively contained in the FAA dated 28.02.2020 read with the Amendment to the FAA dated 15.05.2020. The JRS Group, in the said notice, alleged, inter alia, that while the JRS Group had fulfilled its obligations under the FAA, the AMP Group had failed to discharge and take appropriate steps in compliance of its obligations.