[Paras 10-28] Service law – Regularization of services – in Secretary, State of Karnataka vs. Uma Devi’s case – Clarification: Held: Decision in Uma Devi’s case does not intend to penalize employees who have rendered long years of service fulfilling ongoing and necessary functions of the State or its instrumentalities – While the in Uma Devi’s case sought to curtail the practice of backdoor entries and ensure appointments adhered to constitutional principles, it is regrettable that its principles are often misinterpreted or misapplied to deny legitimate claims of long-serving employees – This aimed to distinguish between “illegal” and “irregular” [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1237 Jaggo v. Union of India & Ors. appointments – It categorically held that employees in irregular appointments, who were engaged in duly sanctioned posts and had served continuously for more than ten years, should be considered for regularization as a one-time measure – However, the laudable intent of the is being subverted when institutions rely on its dicta to indiscriminately reject the claims of employees, even in cases where their appointments are not illegal, but merely lack adherence to procedural formalities – Government departments often cite the in Uma Devi’s case to argue that no vested right to regularization exists for temporary employees, overlooking the 's explicit acknowledgment of cases where regularization is appropriate – This selective application distorts the 's spirit and purpose, effectively weaponizing it against employees who have rendered indispensable services over decades. [Paras 20, 26] Case Law Cited Secretary, State of Karnataka v. Uma Devi [2006] 3 SCR 953 : (2006) 4 SCC 1; Vinod Kumar and Ors. Etc. v. Union of India & Ors. [2024] 1 SCR 1230 – relied on. Vizcaino v. Microsoft Corporation, 97 F.3d 1187 (9th Cir. 1996) – referred to. List of Keywords Service law; Regularization of services; Contractual employees; Secretary, State of Karnataka v. Uma Devi’s case; Misinterpretation or misapplication of Uma Devi’s case; Regularization of services of long term serving employees; Employees performing essential function in government establishment; Central Water Commission- CWC; Essential housekeeping and support functions; Long- serving employees; Work of perennial nature; Regular vacancies; Principles enabling regularization; Issuance of notice; Long and uninterrupted service; Labelling initial appointments as part- time or contractual; Engagement not sporadic or temporary in nature; Outsourcing; Long tenures; Appointments not illegal but irregular; Prolonged, continuous, and unblemished service; Misuse of temporary employment contracts; Government institutions; Principles of fairness and justice; Exploitative employment practices; Engaging workers on temporary basis; International labour standards; Promote job security; Principles of justice and 1238 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports fairness; Denial of legitimate claims of long-serving employees; Distinction between illegal and irregular appointments; Continuous and Substantive engagement; Abrupt termination from services; Termination without show-cause notice; Absence of performance issues; Discrimination in regularization; Violation of fundamental principles of contractual employees; Violation of principles of equality; Gig economy; Detrimental trend of gig economy; International Labour Organization; ILO’s Multinational Enterprises Declaration; Exploitation of contractual workers; Betterment of labour practices. Case Arising From CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION : Civil Appeal No.