Learned senior counsel therefore, submitted that GEAC, not having complied with the requisite procedures, has arrived at a decision to grant approval of the environmental release of transgenic mustard hybrid DMH-11 without taking into consideration all aspects of the matter in a comprehensive manner. 17.23 Sri Dhruv Dwivedi learned counsel submitted that the recommendation of the Parliamentary Committee on agriculture has not been considered by GEAC in its proper perspective. Further, the sub-committee of GEAC had recommended that the adverse impacts on honeybees and other pollinators had to be studied prior to the environmental release. However, the said decision was given a go by and it was decided that the said study would be conducted subsequent to the environmental release of DMH-11. This volte-face in the stand of GEAC is without any reason and also not in consonance with the precautionary principles which are relevant in the instant case. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2033 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. 17.24 Dr. Ravindra Chingale learned counsel appearing on behalf of Bharatiya Kisan Sangh as an intervenor, at the outset, submitted that these matters cannot be considered to be an adversarial litigation but wholly in public interest. Therefore, the respondent Union of India would have to adhere to the directions issued and to be issued by this Court in the matter. He further drew our attention to three unstarred questions answered in the Rajya Sabha by Hon’ble Minister of State for Environment. One of them was with regard to Section 22 of the FSSA, 2006, that the Central Government has not yet conducted any study on GM food and therefore, has not issued a notification under the aforesaid provision. In the absence of such a notification, there can be no steps taken having regard to the provisions of the FSSA, 2006. As per Section 2 of the said Act, the Union has declared that the food industry is taken under its control, which is expedient in the public interest in view of Entry 52, List I of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution. The same shall be considered later. 17.25 He also drew our attention to Section 3(b) of the Patents Act, 1970, which states that an invention, the primary or intended use or commercial exploitation of which could be contrary to public or morality or which causes serious prejudice to human, animal or plant life or health or to the environment, is not an invention within the meaning of the said Act and therefore, not patentable. Submissions of the Respondents: PART-I 18. Sri R. Venkataramani, learned Attorney General, while defending the action of GEAC, contended that the petitioners have raised two concerns, namely, (i) the non-negotiable importance of having credible regulatory procedures, mechanism and institutions which are free from commercial incentives to ensure that proposals for release and use of GM crops and plants are subject to strict scrutiny through well-accepted regimes; and, (ii) all information and materials in relation to the regulatory procedures be made public to ensure participation of the public in to bring about transparency and informed debate.