210. We must also address one very important aspect as regards when the sale of secured asset either by auction or any other method under the SARFAESI Act may be challenged or set-aside after its confirmation. 211. In B. Arvind Kumar v. Govt of India & Ors. reported in (2007) 5 SCC 745 this Court whilst dealing with a plea to set-aside the sale of the property therein by way of public auction by the official receiver, it was held that when the sale is confirmed by the court, the sale becomes absolute and therefrom the title vests in the auction purchaser. The relevant observations read as under: - “12. [...] When a property is sold by public auction in pursuance of an of the court and the bid is accepted and the sale is confirmed by the court in favour of the purchaser, the sale becomes absolute and the title vests in the purchaser. A sale certificate is issued to the purchaser only when the sale becomes absolute. The sale certificate is merely the evidence of such title. It is well settled that when an auction-purchaser derives title on confirmation of sale in his favour, and a sale certificate is issued evidencing such sale and title, no further deed of transfer from the court is contemplated or required. In this case, the sale certificate itself was registered, though such a sale certificate issued by a court or an officer authorised by the court, does not require registration. Section 17(2)(xii) of the Registration Act, 1908 specifically provides that a certificate of sale granted to any purchaser of any property sold by a public auction [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1735 Celir LLP v. Mr. Sumati Prasad Bafna & Ors. by a Civil or Revenue Officer does not fall under the category of non-testamentary documents which require registration under sub-sections (b) and (c) of Section 17(1) of the said Act. We therefore hold that the High Court committed a serious error in holding that the sale certificate did not convey any right, title or interest to plaintiff’s father for want of a registered deed of transfer.” (Emphasis supplied) 212. In LICA (P) Ltd. v. Official Liquidator reported in (1996) 85 Comp Cas 788 (SC) this Court held that the purpose of an open auction is to get the most remunerative price with the highest possible public participation, and as such the courts shall exercise their discretion to interfere where the auction suffers from any fraud or inadequate pricing or underbidding that too with circumspection, keeping in view the facts of each case. The relevant observations read as under: - “The purpose of an open auction is to get the most remunerative price and it is the duty of the court to keep openness of the auction so that the intending bidders would be free to participate and offer higher value. If that path is cut down or closed the possibility of fraud or to secure inadequate price or underbidding would loom large. The court would, therefore, have to exercise its discretion wisely and with circumspection and keeping in view the facts and circumstances in each case.” (Emphasis supplied) 213.