Holding so, the authority allowed the tenants’ revision, set aside the s passed against them and directed that the lands be restored to them. 12. Assailing this , the appellants filed Writ Petition No. 1774 of 1982 before the Bombay High Court. In the dated 01.02.2005 passed therein, the High Court observed that possession of the lands was delivered to the heirs of the Watandar on 24.04.1962 during the pendency of revisional proceedings, only because there was no stay of the passed by the lower authority, and held that such delivery would be subject to final determination of the rights of the parties. Further, taking note of the fact that the Abolition Act came into effect on 01.01.1963, the High Court held that the tenancy was still subsisting on that day despite the delivery of possession of the lands to the heirs of the Watandar, as the proceedings were still pending and execution of the directing delivery of possession was subject to the final outcome thereof. The High Court, therefore, concluded that the tenancy was not legally and validly determined. As regards the appellants’ contention that Section 5 of the 1874 Act automatically determined the tenancy, the High Court rejected it on the ground that once a legal and valid tenancy was subsisting on 01.01.1963, the tenants would be entitled to all the benefits under Section 8 of the Abolition Act and the provisions of the Tenancy Act. The High Court accordingly held that there was no merit in the writ petition and dismissed it. It is this that is subjected to challenge before us in this appeal. 13. While issuing notice on 04.04.2005, this Court, directed status quo existing as on that day to be maintained. This is still in operation. 14. It would be appropriate at this stage to note the statutory scheme of the 1874 Act and the other relevant provisions thereof. Section 4 of the 1874 Act defines Watan property and Watandar. The definition of Watan property, to the extent relevant, reads thus: 602 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports ‘Watan property” means the moveable or immovable property held, acquired, or assigned for providing remuneration for the performance of the duty appertaining to an hereditary office. It includes a right to levy customary fees or perquisites, in money or in kind, whether at fixed times or otherwise……’ Watandar is defined as under: ‘Watandar” means a person having an hereditary interest in a watan. It includes a person holding watan property acquired by him before the introduction of the British Government into the locality of the watan, or legally acquired subsequent to such introduction, and a person holding such property from him by inheritance. It includes a person adopted by an owner of a watan or part of a watan, subject to the conditions specified in sections 33 to 35’ Section 5 of the 1874 Act, to the extent relevant, reads thus: ‘5. (1) Without the sanction of the State Government, or in the case of a mortgage, charge, alienation, or lease of not more than thirty years, of the Commissioner it shall not be competent— (a) to a watandar to mortgage, charge, alienate or lease, for a period beyond the term of his natural life, any watan, or any part thereof, or any interest therein, to or for the benefit of any person who is not a watandar of the same watan; …..’ 15.