14.9 What is of significance under the second portion of Article 254(1) is that the law has to be passed by the Parliament either before or after the law made by the Legislature of such a State, secondly, such a law must be with respect to one of the matters enumerated in the Concurrent List. The above is a case of actual repugnancy. There can also be a case of what can be called potential repugnancy, which is also expressed as the doctrine of occupied field which shall be discussed at this stage in the context of the observations made in Synthetics and Chemicals (7J). 2144 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Entry 33(a) – List III vs. Entry 52 - List I: Observations in Synthetics and Chemicals (7J): 15. Article 246 of the Constitution deals with the division of legislatives subjects between the Parliament and the Legislatures of the States. Both sub-clauses (1) and (2) begin with a non-obstante clause while sub-clause (3) begins with a “subject to” clause. On a holistic reading of Article 246, it emerges that the Parliament has exclusive power to make laws with respect to any of the matters enumerated in List I and it also has the power to make laws with respect to any of the matters enumerated in List III or the Concurrent List (vide clause (2) of Article 246). The non-obstante clauses in clauses (1) and (2) of Article 246 in my view, are significant inasmuch as they envisage parliamentary supremacy over laws made by the State Legislature even in respect of a subject enumerated in List II as clause (3) of Article 246 is subject to clauses (1) and (2) of Article 246. This is despite the State Legislatures having exclusive competence over the subjects mentioned in List II. However, the said position would apply only when there is a conflict between a State Law and a Union Law which is irreconcilable or cannot be interpreted harmoniously. 15.1 The Parliament as well as the Legislature of any State have also concurrent powers to make laws in respect of any of the matters enumerated in List III. This is notwithstanding anything in clause (3) of Article 246 but is subject to clause (1) thereof. This would imply that any law made by the Legislature of a State in List III or the Concurrent List is subject to a law made by Parliament in List I. This also has a bearing on first part of the clause (1) of Article 254. Therefore, in my view, the doctrine of parliamentary supremacy is writ large in Articles 246 and 254 both in the manner of arrangement of the subjects in the three Lists as well as the extent to which the State Legislatures have competence with regard to the subjects assigned to them particularly in List III or the Concurrent List. 15.2 In this case, we have to consider Entry 33(a) – List III in light of Entry 52 - List I and the observations made by this Court in Synthetics and Chemicals (7J).