A thing to subordinate importance. Aiding or contributing in secondary way of assisting in or contributing to as a subordinate.” Similarly, Oxford Dictionary defines “accessory” as: “an extra piece of equipment that is useful but not essential or that can be added to something else as a decoration.” 11.11.5 What comes out from the above dictionary meaning of “accessory” is that any such item which adds to the beauty, convenience or effectiveness of some other items can be said to be accessory of that other thing and it may or may not be essential for functioning of main machinery. Seen from the above perspective what is evident is that the tower is a structure fixed to the earth or building on which microwave antenna is fastened to provide the necessary height and stability to the antenna by making it steady and wobble free. The function of antenna as part of the BTS is to receive and transmit radio signal and is used for providing mobile telecom service to the subscribers. The tower itself is not an electrical component of microwave antenna per-se, yet it is necessary and helps in keeping the antenna at proper height and in a stable position so that the antenna can transmit signals for ensuring uninterrupted and seamless services to the subscribers. It is with the aid of the tower that the potential of the antenna is fully realised, making it function optimally. Without tower, 1590 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports antenna cannot effectively function for the purpose it is used. Hence, there can be no doubt that tower is to be considered as an accessory of antenna. 11.11.6 Similarly, the PFB houses other BTS equipment and alternative electricity source in the form of diesel generators and other equipment to provide alternative and uninterrupted power supply to the antenna so that in the event of failure of main power supply, the generator can instantly provide backup electricity supply to the antenna and BTS. The PFBs house electric cables, other equipment related to antenna, BTS and generator. Thus, PFBs enhance the efficacy and functioning of mobile antenna as well as BTS and accordingly, PFBs can also be considered as accessories to the antenna and BTS which are “capital goods” falling under Chapter 85 of the Schedule to the Central Excise Tariff. 11.11.7 That tower is to be treated as an accessory of antenna or BTS and their relationship has been highlighted by this Court in Tata Teleservices Ltd. Vs. Bharat Sanchar Nigam Ltd. & Ors. (2008) 10 SCC 556 wherein the principles of cellular networks have been discussed showing the inter dependency of tower and antenna in the following words, “xi) Principles of Cellular Networks: Mobile communications reached the market in 1980. Even at that time the major challenge was to implement advanced mobility features such as handover, roaming and localization of subscribers which required additional control channels between terminal and serving base station. A cellular network consists of a number of radio cells where the term “cell” refers to geographic coverage area of a BTS.