The Court also directed the Union to consult the States on the appointment of Child Marriage Prohibition Officers17 under Section 1618 17 ‘CMPO’ 18 “16. Child Marriage Prohibition Officers (1) The State Government shall, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint for the whole State, or such part thereof as may be specified in that notification, an officer or officers to be known as the Child Marriage Prohibition Officer having jurisdiction over the area or areas specified in the notification. (2) The State Government may also request a respectable member of the locality with a record of social service or an officer of the Gram Panchayat or Municipality or an officer of the Government or any public sector undertaking or an office bearer of any non-governmental organisation to assist the Child Marriage Prohibition Officer and such member, officer or office bearer, as the case may be, shall be bound to act accordingly. (3) It shall be the duty of the Child Marriage Prohibition Officer (a) to prevent solemnisation of child marriages by taking such action as he may deem fit; (b) to collect evidence for the effective prosecution of persons contravening the provisions of this Act; (c) to advise either individual cases or counsel the residents of the locality generally not to indulge in promoting, helping, aiding or allowing the solemnisation of child marriages; (d) to create awareness of the evil which results from child marriages; (e) to sensitise the community on the issue of child marriages; (f) to furnish such periodical returns and statistics as the State Government may direct; and 1532 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of the PCMA and submit a comprehensive affidavit on whether the officers appointed as CMPOs are given other multifarious duties. 7. The Ministry of Women and Child Development has submitted that it has successfully collected data from all States and Union Territories except Arunachal Pradesh, Goa, Manipur, Odisha, Sikkim, Jammu & Kashmir and Lakshadweep. The data placed on record by the Ministry reflects that many child marriages are prevented before their solemnization. The remaining cases are investigated and prosecuted under the law. We shall analyse the data submitted by the Ministry of Women and Child Development in the course of this . 8. On 10 July 2024, this Court heard Ms Mugdha, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the Petitioner as well as Ms Aishwarya Bhati, learned Additional Solicitor General appearing on behalf of the Union of India. While reserving the this Court granted liberty to the Petitioner and the Union to make their submissions in the form of a note including suggestions on ways for the effective enforcement of PCMA. 9. The Petitioner has submitted that: (i) Data from NFHS-4 and NFHS-5 reflects that high rate of child marriages have been solemnised. The Petitioner submits that this can be gathered from the rate of adolescent pregnancies in multiple States; (ii) Under Section 16 of PCMA, CMPOs are empowered to prevent child marriages. However, findings from HAQ - Centre for Child Rights19 show that CMPOs are often tasked with multiple responsibilities, limiting their capacity to focus on child marriage prevention.