11. We have not been able to appreciate the anxiety on the part of the different courts in s referred to above to apply the provisions of the Code to writ proceedings on the basis of Section 141 of the Code. When the Constitution has vested extraordinary power in the High Court under Articles 226 and 227 to issue any , writ or direction and the power of superintendence over all courts and tribunals throughout the territories in relation to which such High Court is exercising jurisdiction, the procedure for exercising such power and jurisdiction have to be traced and found in Articles 226 and 227 itself. No useful purpose will be served by limiting the power of the High Court by procedural provisions prescribed in the Code. Of course, on many questions, the provisions and procedures prescribed under the Code can be taken up as guide while exercising the power, for granting relief to persons, who have invoked the jurisdiction of the High Court. It need not be impressed that different provisions and procedures under the Code are based on well-recognised principles for exercise of discretionary power, and they are reasonable and rational. But at the same time, it cannot be disputed that many procedures prescribed in the said [2024] 7 S.C.R. 519 M/s Al-Can Export Pvt. Ltd. v. Prestige H.M. Polycontainers Ltd. & Ors. Code are responsible for delaying the delivery of justice and causing delay in securing the remedy available to a person who pursues such remedies. The High Court should be left to adopt its own procedure for granting relief to the persons concerned. The High Court is expected to adopt a procedure which can be held to be not only reasonable but also expeditious.” (Emphasis supplied) 48. As a court of plenary jurisdiction, the writ court while exercising powers under Article 226 of the Constitution is free to adopt its own procedures and follow them. It cannot be compelled to follow the procedures prescribed in the CPC. This is so for the specific provision made in its Section 141. 49. The High Court while exercising jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution has jurisdiction to pass appropriate s. Such power can neither be controlled nor affected by the provisions of XXI Rule 90 of the CPC. It would not be correct to say that the terms of XXI Rule 90 should be mandatorily complied with while exercising jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution. Proceedings under Article 226 of the Constitution stand on a different footing when compared to the proceedings in suits or appeals arising therefrom. 50. The High Court exercises its writ jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution of India, whereas the Civil Courts exercise their jurisdiction in terms of the provisions of the respective State Civil Courts Acts read with Section 9 of the CPC. The High Court exercises constitutional function, the Civil Court exercises a statutory function. The High Court exercises a wide power under Article 226 of the Constitution of India and in a given situation, it can even mould the reliefs in to do substantial justice between the parties.