It is pointed out that clause (4) of Article 16 aims at group backwardness and not individual backwardness. While we agree that clause (4) aims at group backwardness, we feel that exclusion of such socially advanced members will make the ‘class’ a truly backward class and would more appropriately serve the purpose and object of clause (4). (This discussion is confined to Other Backward Classes only and has no relevance in the case of Scheduled Tribes and Scheduled Castes).” 275. It has been observed that the very concept of a class denotes a number of persons having certain common traits which distinguish them from the others. It is observed that if some of the members are far too advanced socially (which in the context, necessarily means economically and may also mean educationally) the connecting thread between them and the remaining class snaps. He observed that they would be misfits in the class. It is further observed that after excluding them alone, would the class be a compact class. It is observed that in fact, such exclusion would benefit the truly backward. 276. His Lordship gave an example that, if a member of a designated backward class becomes a member of IAS or IPS or any other All India Service, his status in society rises; he is no longer socially disadvantaged. His children would get full opportunity to realize their potential. They are in no way handicapped in the race of life. It is observed that it is logical that in such a situation, his children are not given the benefit of reservation. It is further observed that by giving them the benefit of reservation, other disadvantaged members of that backward class may be deprived of that benefit. 277. Rejecting the argument of ‘one swallow doesn’t make the summer’, i.e. merely because few members of a caste/class become socially advanced the caste/class as such does not cease to be backward, the Learned Judge answered that though clause (4) of Article 16 aims at group backwardness, he was of the view that exclusion of such socially advanced members will make the ‘class’ a truly backward class and would more appropriately serve the purpose and object of clause (4) of Article 16. 1578 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 278. As early as in 1981, in Akhil Bharatiya Soshit Karamchari Sangh, Krishna Iyer, J., in paragraph 94, while rejecting the argument that because a few harijans are better off, therefore, the bulk at the bottom deserves no jack-up provisions, had observed that the State may, when social conditions warrant, justifiably restrict harijan benefits to the harijans among the harijans and forbid the higher harijans from robbing the lowlier brethren. 279. Again, in paragraph 98, he observed that the Administration may well innovate and classify to weed out the creamy layer of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. However, he cautioned that the Court cannot force the State in that behalf. 280. Chinnappa Reddy, J. also records that a few members of those castes or social groups may have progressed far enough and forged ahead so as to compare favourably with the leading forward class economically, socially and educationally.