The witness is also not ready to answer the question whether there was some ommision in the petition and that an application was moved for the correction of those ommissions. The witness is also not ready to answer the question that by way of amendment the name of Kulwinder Singh @ Neeta was not incorporated in the amended application. The witness is not ready to answer the question whether the petition was withdrawn on 6.8.98.” 19. In her examination in chief, the first informant-Sharan Kaur(PW-5) categorically stated that her statement was recorded at the Civil Hospital, Dasuya on 13th November, 1997 at about 7:30 a.m. It was read over and explained to her, and she signed it admitting it to be correct. 20. If that be so, the subsequent conduct of Sharan Kaur (PW-5) in raising a hue and cry that investigation being conducted was tainted and the police had intentionally favoured the co-accused Kulwinder Singh by leaving out his name from the array of offenders creates a great doubt on her credibility. 21. Neither in the FIR (Exhibit-PG/2) nor in the application (Exhibit-DA) signed by the first informant-Sharan Kaur(PW-5) and addressed to the Chief Minister, Punjab, the name of the second accused Kulwinder Singh is mentioned as one of the assailants. There is no [2024] 4 S.C.R. 719 Kirpal Singh v. State of Punjab dispute that the acquitted accused Kulwinder Singh and appellant Kirpal Singh, are closely related to the family of the deceased and the first informant. In that event, if the first informant had identified the offenders at the time of the incident, there was no reason as to why she would leave out the name of Kulwinder Singh while giving the statement to the police officer, who recorded FIR (Exhibit-PG/2). The witness was extensively confronted with the other applications/ petitions filed by her questioning the bonafides of investigation being carried out by the Investigating Agencies being Exhibit-DB, Exhibit- DG, etc., and she refused to stand by the versions set out in these applications/petitions filed by herself. Not only this, a statement (Exhibit-DL) of the first informant was recorded by DSP, Rajender Singh, wherein it is stated that some unknown person entered into their house and caused injuries to the witness and her husband, who expired in the incident. Though, the first informant denied having given this statement but this fact definitely creates a doubt on the truthfulness of her story. A serious doubt is created on the credibility of the deposition made by the first informant, when we consider the fact that she claimed in her examination in chief that a van was brought by her son wherein, she and her husband were taken to the Civil Hospital, Tanda, where the medical officers opined that her husband had expired and she was medically examined. However, they did not believe in this opinion and took the victim to Bhogpur where again the doctors reiterated that her husband had expired. Only after this confirmation, the dead body of Balwinder Singh was brought back to the house where police was already present.