Now, I am sure about it that the protection granted in the original article was very insecure. It depended upon the goodwill of the State. The present situation as you find it stated in article 23 is that we have converted that into a Fundamental Right, so that if a State made any law which was inconsistent with the provisions of this article, then that much of the law would be invalid by virtue of article 8 which we have already passed.” [Emphasis supplied] 292. The nature of the protection afforded by Article 29 also came up before this Court in D.A.V. College v. State of Punjab,197 which 197 D.A.V. College v. State of Punjab (1971) 2 SCC 269 [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1119 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 analysed a counterfactual and held that had the State intervened in compelling affiliated colleges, including minority institutions, to provide instruction in the Punjabi language, it would have impeded the right to conserve their language, script, and culture. It held that such an intervention would have amounted to stifling the language and script of other sections of citizens and encroaching on their right to conserve their own culture and language. 293. At this juncture, it is imperative to recognize that Article 29 does not advocate for absolute governmental abstention in matters involving culture, language or script. In fact, to some extent, government intervention is unavoidable as regulation is essential for the maintenance of public and for upholding constitutionalism. State actions and regulations with an insignificant or merely incidental effect on a community’s cultural rights might also not be caught in the crosshairs of Article 29(1). This is also seconded by various decisions of this Court, where some such regulatory interventions by the State were held to not constitute a curtailment of Article 29(1) rights.198 In addition, although not germane to the controversy at hand, we must add a word of caution that not all cultural practices of a section of citizens—for example, those blatantly running against the spirit and grain of our Constitution, like casteism and gender discrimination—would be protected by Article 29(1). 294. A violation of Article 29, therefore hinges on the ‘nature’ and ‘degree’ of State intervention and not merely on the simpliciter fact of intervention. In other words, the violation of Article 29 is necessarily a question of law which requires adjudication of the circumstances, intention and effect of the state intervention on the aggrieved section of citizens, as well as the society at large. 295. To sum up our discussion, the rights conferred by Article 29(1) require that the State not take any steps to erode a community’s culture, language or script; and concomitantly accords to such section of citizens the freedom and independence to preserve and conserve their culture, language and script, by themselves. At the same time, the right under Article 29(1) does not necessitate the Government to enact specific provisions for its enforcement and also does not altogether restrict the State from enacting regulations.