20. The learned counsel representing the contemnor-respondent Nos. 2 to 7 submitted in cohesion that all the contemnors have tendered unconditional apology in their reply affidavits for the alleged contumacious acts. They urged that the contemnors had no intention whatsoever to disobey or disregard this Court’s dated 8th December, 2023 and the infraction, if any, in this regard is purely unintentional and thus, a lenient view may be taken and the contempt notices may be discharged. 4 2014 SCC OnLine Guj 14451 260 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 21. Mr. S.V. Raju, learned ASG appearing on behalf of Commissioner of Police, Surat(contemnor-respondent No. 2) advanced the following submissions: - 21.1 That respondent No. 2 has no direct role in the contempt proceedings and thus the contempt notice issued to him may be discharged. 21.2 That Commissioner of Police(contemnor-respondent No. 2) has tendered an unconditional apology for any of the alleged action/omission which may have resulted in contempt of this Court’s dated 8th December, 2023. 21.3 That Vesu Police Station was a newly established police station and thus, CCTV cameras installed in the police station were not properly functional. 21.4 That the DVR and hard disks of the CCTV cameras installed in the police station were forwarded for analysis to the FSL, from where a report has been received that there was some technical defect in the DVR and that the video footage from 13th December, 2023 to 16th December, 2023 could not be preserved therein. The fact regarding the technical defect in the DVR was not brought to the knowledge of the Commissioner of Police (contemnor-respondent No.2) and hence, he cannot be held guilty of wilful negligence in discharge of duties. 21.5 That Commissioner of Police (contemnor-respondent No. 2) has already initiated departmental proceedings against the erring police officials. The Police Inspector/Investigating Officer (contemnor-respondent No. 4) and Police Constable (contemnor-respondent No. 5) have been placed under suspension. He thus implored the Court to discharge the contempt notice issued to the Commissioner of Police, Surat(contemnor-respondent No.2). 22. Ms. Aishwarya Bhati, learned ASG, appearing on behalf of Deputy Commissioner of Police, Surat(contemnor-respondent No. 3) advanced the following submissions: - 22.1 That the said contemnor has tendered an unconditional apology for any act or omission which may have contributed to the non-compliance/contempt of this Court’s dated 8th [2024] 8 S.C.R. 261 Tusharbhai Rajnikantbhai Shah v. Kamal Dayani & Ors. December, 2003. Learned ASG reiterated the averments made in the reply affidavit filed on behalf of the officer and urged that he was, in no manner, connected with the investigation of the subject FIR and thus he cannot be held responsible for the contumacious acts. She fervently contended that the contemnor-respondent No. 3 had no role to play either in the investigation of the case or the custodial torture allegedly meted out to the petitioner during the period of police custody. She also urged that no injuries were found on the person of the petitioner as per the medical report. 22.2 Regarding the issue of the non-functioning of the CCTV cameras in the Vesu Police Station, she submitted that the CCTV cameras had been installed some time back and were functional but there was some problem with the DVR storage not just during the 3 days of custodial period of the petitioner but was persisting since November, 2023.