On a few occasions, this Court had exercised its power under Article 142 to grant compensation despite noting that the driver did not possess a valid ‘transport vehicle’ license. Before proceeding any further, a short discussion of these decisions in chronological would be appropriate for aiding clarity to the discussion. 87. The earliest decision on the issue was in 1999, in Ashok Gangadhar Maratha v. Oriental Insurance Co. Ltd.37 (for short “Ashok Gangadhar Maratha”). The definition of LMV at that time stipulated a weight limit of 6000 kgs. The facts in that case was that the appellant who was the holder of a LMV license, owned a Swaraj Mazda truck weighing 5,920 kgs, which got damaged in an accident on 26.11.1991. When the insurer refuted the claim, questioning the validity of the LMV driving license, the appellant filed a complaint before the Consumer Forum. The case traveled to the Supreme Court where a two-judge bench of this Court pertinently observed that a holder of a LMV license can drive a ‘transport vehicle’, without a specific endorsement and accordingly, compensation was granted to the claimants. The Supreme Court, inter alia, gave an important interpretation to Section 2(21) of the MV Act as well as Rule 2(e) of the MV Rules which defines a “non-transport vehicle”. In Para 10, the Court pertinently observed as under: “10. The definition of “light motor vehicle” as given in clause (21) of Section 2 of the Act can apply only to a “light goods vehicle” or a “light transport vehicle”. A “light motor vehicle” otherwise has to be covered by the definition of “motor vehicle” or “vehicle” as given in clause (28) of Section 2 of the Act. A light motor vehicle cannot always mean a light goods carriage. Light motor vehicle can be a non-transport vehicle as well.” 37 [1999] Supp. 2 SCR 202 : (1999) 6 SCC 620 614 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 88. The Court supplemented its reasoning in Para 11 as under: “11. To reiterate, since a vehicle cannot be used as a transport vehicle on a public road unless there is a permit issued by the Regional Transport Authority for that purpose and since in the instant case there is neither a pleading to that effect by any party nor is there any permit on record, the vehicle in question would remain a light motor vehicle. The respondent also does not say that any permit was granted to the appellant for plying the vehicle as a transport vehicle under Section 66 of the Act. Moreover, on the date of the accident, the vehicle was not carrying any goods and though it could be said to have been designed to be used as a transport vehicle or a goods carrier, it cannot be so held on account of the statutory prohibition contained in Section 66 of the Act.” 89. The Court additionally noted that if one accepts the contention of the insurer, “there can never be any light motor vehicle and there can never be any driving licence for driving a light motor vehicle.