183. The determination by the foreigners tribunal in each individual case introduces judicial-element in the process of determination of nationality of suspected persons. However, I emphasize that the infirmity of Section 6A lies not in the judicial determination of the [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1217 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 status of each immigrant individually, but in the steps preceding such determination, that is, identifying suspected immigrants and referring them to the foreigners tribunal. The onus of referring suspected immigrants to the tribunal lying solely on the state; absence of any provision for self-declaration or registration by the immigrant; and absence of any time-limit during which the benefit of Section 6A may be availed – collectively have the effect of making the provision constitutionally invalid when subjected to the three-prong test of temporal unreasonableness as elucidated above. 184. The result of the aforesaid infirmity has been that, to this date, the benefit of Section 6A can be availed if an immigrant shows that he or she falls within Section 6A sub-sections (2) and (3). This has added another layer of complexity in the very detection process of illegal migrants, who have mingled amongst those who have legitimately availed the benefit under Section 6A. 185. Even a person who is otherwise not eligible under Section 6A can put-up a false claim that he or she is covered under Section 6A, and the foreigners tribunal would have to examine the legitimacy of the such a claim, thereby slowing down the entire process of detection and deportation in Assam. 186. We find substance in the submission of the petitioners that the stipulation of the condition ‘ordinarily resident in Assam’ created a vortex that attracted other illegal immigrants located in West Bengal or other bing states also to come into Assam in the hope of securing citizenship, all because of the faulty mechanism coupled with poor implementation of conferring the benefit under Section 6A. 187. It is also pertinent to observe that the regime under the Citizenship Act has been made more stringent over the years by a slew of amendments. Significantly, the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2003 introduced the definition of an ‘illegal immigrant’. The Statement of objects and reasons accompanying the Citizenship (Amendment) Bill, 2003, reads as under: - “[...] 2. The above objects are proposed to be achieved, inter alia, by amending provisions of the Citizenship Act so as to — (i) make acquisition of Indian citizenship by registration and naturalisation more stringent; 1218 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (ii) prevent illegal migrants from becoming eligible for Indian citizenship; (iii) simplify the procedure to facilitate the re-acquisition of Indian citizenship by persons of full age who are children of Indian citizens, and former citizens of independent India; (iv) provide for the grant of overseas citizenship of India to persons of Indian origin belonging to specified countries, and Indian citizens who choose to acquire the citizenship of any of these countries at a later date; (v) provide for the compulsory registration and issue of a national identity card to all citizens of India; (vi) enhance the penalty for violation of its provisions, as well as the rules framed under it; and (vii) to omit all provisions recognizing, or relating to the Commonwealth citizenship from the Act.” (Emphasis supplied) 188.