It also provides for constitution of Town and Country Development Authority for proper implementation of town and country development plan. It also provides for development and administration of special areas through the Special Area Development Authority. 32. Section 13 of the TCP Act reads thus: “13. Planning Area.—(1) The State Government may, by notification, constitute planning areas for the purposes of this Act and define the limits thereof. 17 As amended vide Himachal Pradesh Town and Country Planning (Amendment) Act 2015 (Act 14 of 2015). 994 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (2) The State Government may, by notification,- (a) alter the limits of a planning area so as to include therein or exclude there from such area as may be specified in the notification; (b) amalgamate two or more planning areas so as to constitute one planning area; (c) divide any planning area into two or more planning areas; (d) declare that the whole or part of the area constituting the planning area shall cease to be planning area or part thereof.” 33. It can thus be seen that under Section 13 of the TCP Act, the State Government is empowered to constitute planning areas for the purposes of the Act and define the limits thereof. It is also empowered to alter the limits of a planning area, amalgamate two or more planning areas and also to divide any planning area into two or more planning areas. 34. Section 14 of the TCP Act reads thus: “14. Director to prepare Development Plans.—Subject to the provisions of this Act and the rules made thereunder the Director shall— *(a) prepare an existing land use map indicating the natural hazard proneness of the area; *(b) prepare an interim development plan keeping in view the regulation for land use zoning for natural hazard prone area; *(c) prepare a development plan keeping in view the regulation for land use zoning for natural hazard prone area;18 (d) prepare a sectoral plan; 18 *As amended vide Himachal Pradesh Town and Country Planning (Amendment) Act 2013 (Act No. 41 of 2013). [2024] 1 S.C.R. 995 The State of Himachal Pradesh and Others v. Yogendera Mohan Sengupta and Another (e) carry such surveys and inspections and obtain such pertinent reports from Government departments, local authorities and public institutions as may be necessary for the preparation of the plans; (f) perform such duties and functions as are supplemental, incidental, and consequential to any of the foregoing functions or as may be assigned by the State Government for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this Act.” 35. Clauses (a), (b) and (c) of Section 14 of the TCP Act have been amended vide Himachal Pradesh Town and Country Planning (Amendment) Act 2013 (Act No. 41 of 2013). It can be seen that these clauses provide a special emphasis on the areas indicating the natural hazard. 36. Section 15 of the TCP Act reads thus: “15. Existing Land use Maps.—(1) The Director shall carry out the survey and prepare an existing land use map and forthwith publish the same in such manner as may be prescribed together with public notice of the preparation of the map and of the place or places where the copies may be inspected, inviting objections and suggestions in writing from any person with respect thereto within thirty days from the date of publication of such notice.