15. On 14.09.2022, the petitioner sent a notice for invocation of arbitration under Section 21 of the Act, 1996, in terms of Clause 26 of the Distributorship Agreement to the respondent nos. 1 & 2. Vide the notice, the petitioner raised a claim of $88,425/- (USD Eighty-Eight Thousand Four Hundred Twenty-Five) with interest @24% p.a. as per the terms agreed in the Distributorship Agreement and nominated Shri. V. Giri and Shri. R. Basant, Senior Advocate as its nominee arbitrators and called upon the respondents to accordingly appoint an arbitrator either from the above suggested panel or any other suitable name within 28-days from receipt of the said notice. 16. It is material to note that in the aforesaid notice of invocation dated 14.09.2022, the petitioner further alluded that in the Distributorship Agreement more particularly Clause 27 the parties had not designated a specific court to the exclusion of all other courts to adjudicate the dispute, thus no exclusive jurisdiction had been conferred by the parties upon any particular court. It further stated that, as the cause of action had concurrently both in Afghanistan and India, the petitioner expressed its preference to resolve the dispute through arbitration administered under the jurisdiction of the courts in India. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1155 M/s Arif Azim Co. Ltd. v. M/s Micromax Informatics Fze 17. Since no reply to the aforesaid notice of invocation of arbitration was elicited from either of the respondents, the present petition came to be filed by the petitioner on 19.04.2023 before this Court for seeking appointment of an arbitrator under Section 11(6) of the Act, 1996 in other words due to the failure on part of the respondents in nominating an arbitrator as per the mutually agreed upon terms and procedure under the aforesaid Distributorship Agreement. B. SUBMISSIONS OF THE PARTIES i. Submissions on behalf of the Petitioner. 18. Mr. R. Sathish the learned counsel appearing for the petitioner in his written submissions has stated thus: - “WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS MADE BY R. SATHISH, ADVOCATE ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER 1. The Dispute Resolution clause defined the venue of arbitration as Dubai and the curial law as UAE Arbitration and Conciliation Rules and the jurisdiction clause, suggestive of control, does not confer jurisdiction to Dubai courts to the exclusion of all other courts. 2. For international arbitrations, the concept of seat assumes greater significance as it acts as the indicator for both curial law as well as supervisory jurisdiction whereas venue is not associated with the jurisdiction. 3. The agreement, in so far the identity of Dubai courts, for jurisdiction, suffers from vagueness in that, it doesn’t specify which of the courts of Dubai and the laws governing thereunder, shall have jurisdiction to hear the disputes among three different courts constituted, namely (i) The UAE Courts (the language is not English) (ii) Dubai International Financial Court (DIFC-Common law) (iii) Abu Dhabi Global court (ADGM-common law). Therefore, at the threshold, it is submitted that the 2nd part of clause 27 dealing with jurisdiction that “……….and shall be subject to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the Dubai 1156 [2024] 11 S.C.R.