It has also come on record that she was not present when the testator died. Expenses for his last rites were borne by the husband of the respondent who was taking care of the land of the testator. 12.2. There is nothing on record to suggest that the appellants were taking care of the property left by the testator immediately after his death or that any steps were taken by them to get the same mutated in their favour. 13. From the aforesaid evidence on record, in our opinion, no error has been committed by the High Court in holding that the Will was not surrounded by the suspicious circumstances as the scribe and one of the witnesses were unison. The testator was conscious of the fact that he had a wife and a minor child whose interest had been taken care of by leaving part of the property for them. It came in response to a specific question asked by PW-4 to the testator at the time of execution of the Will. It was so stated by PW-4 in his cross-examination. Even in para 14 of the written statement, the appellants stated that they are enjoying the suit properties and other properties left by the testator. This clearly shows that certain part of the properties was left by the testator for his widow and minor daughter. 14. Before we part with the we are constraint to observe the manner in which the pleadings have been filed in the Trial Courts or may be in some cases in the High Courts. 14.1. A perusal of the plaint filed by the respondent shows that it contains ten paragraphs besides the prayer. In the written statement filed by the appellants, no specific para-wise reply was given. It was the own story of the respondent containing fifteen paragraphs besides the prayer in para 16. 15. In the absence of para-wise reply to the plaint, it becomes a roving inquiry for the Court to find out as to which line in some paragraph 154 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports in the plaint is either admitted or denied in the written statement filed, as there is no specific admission or denial with reference to the allegation in different paras. 15.1. VIII Rules 3 and 5 CPC clearly provides for specific admission and denial of the pleadings in the plaint. A general or evasive denial is not treated as sufficient. Proviso to VIII Rule 5 CPC provides that even the admitted facts may not be treated to be admitted, still in its discretion the Court may require those facts to be proved. This is an exception to the general rule. General rule is that the facts admitted, are not required to be proved. 15.2. The requirement of VIII Rules 3 and 5 CPC are specific admission and denial of the pleadings in the plaint. The same would necessarily mean dealing with the allegations in the plaint para-wise. In the absence thereof, the respondent can always try to read one line from one paragraph and another from different paragraph in the written statement to make out his case of denial of the allegations in the plaint resulting in utter confusion.