Dani and Another (1978) 2 SCC 424 observed as under:- “50. We, however, underscore the importance of the specific setting of a given case for judging the tendency towards guilt. Equally emphatically, we stress the need for regard to the impact of the plurality of other investigations in the offing or prosecutions pending on the amplitude of the immunity. “To be witness against oneself” is not confined to particular offence regarding which the questioning is made but extends to other offences about which the accused has reasonable apprehension of implication from his answer. This conclusion also flows from “tendency to be exposed to a criminal charge”. “A criminal charge” covers any criminal charge then under investigation or trial or which imminently threatens the accused.” (Emphasis supplied) “57. We hold that Section 161 enables the police to examine the accused during investigation. The prohibitive sweep of Article 20(3) goes back to the stage of police interrogation- not, as contended, commencing in court only. In our , the provisions of Article 20(3) and Section 161(1) substantially cover the same area, so far as police investigations are concerned. The ban on self-accusation and the right to silence, while one investigation or trial is under way, goes beyond that case and protects the accused in regard to other offences pending or imminent, which may deter him from voluntary disclosure of criminatory matter. We are disposed to read ‘compelled testimony’ as evidence procured not merely by physical threats or violence but by psychic torture, atmospheric pressure, environmental coercion tiring interrogative prolixity, [2024] 8 S.C.R. 975 Prem Prakash v. Union of India Through The Directorate of Enforcement overbearing and intimidatory methods and the like – not legal penalty for violation. So, the legal perils following upon refusal to answer, or answer truthfully, cannot be regarded as compulsion within the meaning of Article 20(3). The prospect of prosecution may lead to legal tension in the exercise of a constitutional right, but then, a stance of silence is running a calculated risk. On the other hand, if there is any mode of pressure, subtle or crude, mental or physical, direct or indirect, but sufficiently substantial, applied by the policeman for obtaining information from an accused strongly suggestive of guilt, it becomes ‘compelled testimony’, violative of Article 20(3).” (Emphasis supplied) 27. In the facts of the present case, we hold that the statement of the appellant if to be considered as incriminating against the maker, will be hit by Section 25 of the Evidence Act since he has given the statement whilst in judicial custody, pursuant to another proceeding instituted by the same Investigating Agency. Taken as he was from the judicial custody to record the statement, it will be a travesty of justice to render the statement admissible against the appellant. 28. The appellant accused cannot be told that after all while giving this statement:- “you were wearing a hat captioned ‘ECIR 5/2023’ and not the hat captioned ‘ECIR 4/2022’ ”. 29. A complete reading of Vijay Madanlal Choudhary (supra), particularly, paragraphs 159, 165 and 172 mandate us to ask ourselves the query: Is a reasonable inference legitimately possible that, due to the vulnerable position in which the appellant was placed and the dominating position in which the Investigating Agency was situated, in view of the arrest in the other proceeding that, there obtained a conducive atmosphere to obtain a confession?