Article 39(b), a part of the Directive Principles contained in Chapter IV of the Constitution, reads as follows: “39. Certain principles of policy to be followed by the State.—The State shall, in particular, direct its policy towards securing— … “(b) that the ownership and control of the material resources of the community are so distributed as best to subserve the common good;” 3. Article 31C of the Constitution provides certain legislations a safe harbour and protects them from being challenged under Articles 14 and 19. The only requirement is that the legislation must give effect to “the principles specified in clause (b) or clause (c) of Article 39”. In a sense, Article 31C is the ying to the yang of Article 39(b), which gives it a unique colour and texture and provides it with far-reaching consequences. Once it is established that a particular legislation has a nexus with the principles specified in Article 39(b), Article 31C provides the legislation with a lifeboat – protecting it from a challenge to its constitutionality under Articles 14 and 19 of the Constitution. 4. With this broad context in mind, we first delve into the journey of the reference to this Constitution Bench and define the scope of this judgement. A. Background i. Genesis of the Reference 5. Mumbai is the most populous city in India and one of the most densely populated cities in the world. A persistent problem faced by its residents has been the large number of old, dilapidated buildings which continue to be inhabited despite becoming unsafe due to lack of repairs and reconstruction. It is estimated that over sixteen 34 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports thousand buildings in the city were constructed before 1940.2 The antiquity of the buildings in the island city is compounded by the geographical location of the city. Situated on the western coastline, the saline air of the city contributes to the reduction in the lifespan of its structures. The monsoon rains create pressing challenges for the safety of human settlements and residential buildings. Every year before the monsoon, the Mumbai Building Repair and Reconstruction Board issues a list of dangerous buildings deemed unfit for human habitation. It issues eviction notices to the people living in such buildings and asks occupants to vacate the buildings to avert untoward incidents. Yet, despite these efforts, the city still grapples with the recurring tragedy of building collapses, resulting in loss of life and property, a reminder of the ongoing struggle to ensure safe and secure housing for its residents.3 6. The erstwhile Bombay was originally a group of seven islands. These islands were merged by a series of land reclamation projects to create the present-day ‘Island City of Bombay’. By the beginning of the twentieth century, the island city emerged as a major textile centre. With the growth of the textile industry, there was a significant inflow of workmen from outside of the city. This necessitated the construction of additional residential buildings to house the workmen and their families.