It was further observed by the High Court that the BBMP can certainly explore some effective means and ways to see that that road widening work is done in a speedy manner and is 1310 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports not delayed on account of lame excuses or lethargy on the part of some officer of the BBMP or the executing agencies. Hence, BBMP was directed to file further progress report. A further affidavit was also filed on 13.03.2023 which came to be recorded by the Division Bench of the High Court on 29.09.2023 whereunder it was noticed that in paragraph 3 of the said affidavit it had been stated that the 95% of the road widening project is completed in all respects and now there is free flow of traffic on the stretch, particularly, with reference to the stretch on Bellary Road to Kaveri theatre junction. The status report which was called upon to be filed by BBMP resulted in filing further affidavit of the Executive Engineer which again came to be recorded by the Division Bench of the High Court on 19.04.2023 whereunder it was stated that in respect of different phases of the road widening, the project is complete to the extent of 25%, 95%, 50% and 60% respectively. 17.1 We are compelled to note or make references to the aforestated s passed by the High Court of Karnataka, since the issue of road widening has been the core issue, and on the one hand the State is contending possession of the subject land was not taken or it was taken only in July 2024 and countered by the complainants that possession was taken long back. The pleadings above referred to would also leave no manner of doubt in the mind of this Court of possession of these lands having been taken either by the State or BBMP and same being in their possession since long, it is too late in the day for the State and its instrumentalities to contend that after the issuance of notices on 10.06.2024 and 26.06.2024 the possession of the subject land has been taken. It is for this reason we have held that the contemnors are guilty of supressing the truth and suggesting falsehood. 18. A theoretical implementation would not amount to compliance. The implementation of the should be substantial and said /s should clearly reflect the intention of the authorities of its bonafides, as otherwise it has to be necessarily held that the act of State and its officers are not bonafide but tainted or malafide. Lex non cogit ad impossibilia- Law does not compel a person to do the impossible (AIR 1996 SC 753) Unless an is absolutely impossible to be executed or carried out, the authorities cannot be heard to contend that financial burden would be a hurdle to implement the s of [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1311 Chaduranga Kanthraj Urs and Anr. v. P. Ravi Kumar and Ors. this Court. If at all, there were any such hurdles, it was always open to authorities to approach this Court to seek appropriate s and an attempt made in that regard had also failed.