99 M/S Arif Azim Co. Ltd. v. M/S Aptech Ltd. for appointing an arbitrator. Therefore, Article 137 of the Limitation Act, 1963, which provides the limitation period of three years for filing any other application for which no period of limitation is provided elsewhere in the third division of the Schedule of the Act from the day when the right to apply accrues. It is the residuary article in regard to the applications, and it can only be applied if no other article is applicable. It would only apply to an application where it is required by law to be made. It is restricted to applications for the exercise of the Acts and powers which the court is not bound to perform suo motu. Therefore, the period of limitation for making a request under Section 11(6) is three years, and the limitation is to be counted from the date on which 30 days from the date of notice by one party to the other for appointing arbitrator expires. The question whether the claims/disputes made in reference to arbitration was valid is a question to be decided by the arbitrator, and not by the appointing authority of the arbitrator under Section 11(6) of the Act. The appointing authority is certainly required to ascertain whether the application under Section 11(6) of the Act was barred by time.” (emphasis supplied) 54. Dr. P.C. Markanda in Law Pertaining to Arbitration and Conciliation, 9th Edition, LexisNexis, pp. 550-551 has discussed on the applicability of law of limitation to a petition under Section 11(6) of the Act, 1996 as follows: “For the purpose of examining the right of the petitioner to apply under sub section (6) for calculating the period of limitation, it is necessary to establish, in the first instance, the relevant date when the right to apply accrued in favour of the petitioner. It is the date on which the right to apply accrues that determines the starting point. The starting point does not coincide with the date on which the cause of action for filing a suit arises. Whether the claims of a party are barred by limitation or not is for the arbitrator to see, but it is the duty of the court to see whether the application filed in the court is within limitation or not. Limitation for filing application under sub-section (4) would commence 100 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports only from the expiry of 30 days from the receipt of request mentioned in sub-section (4)(a) or (b) and the limitation for an application under sub-section (6) would commence from the happening of the contingencies mentioned in sub- clauses (a) or (b) or (c) thereof. The procedure prescribed under this section is mandatory and Art. 137, Limitation Act providing for limitation shall apply. xxx xxx xxx It would be entirely wrong to mix the two aspects, namely whether there was any valid claim and secondly the claim to be adjudicated by the arbitrator was barred by time. As for the second matter, it is for the arbitrator to see whether the claim was within limitation or not and the court should confine itself to see whether the application made to the court is within limitation.