Social morality laden with homophobic or transphobic views or any personal predilection of the judge or sympathy for the natal family must [2024] 3 S.C.R. 1279 Devu G Nair v. The State of Kerala & Ors. be eschewed. The court must ensure that the law is followed in ascertaining the free will of the detained or missing person; i. If a detained or missing person expresses their wish to not go back to the alleged detainer or the natal family, then the person must be released immediately without any further delay; j. The court must acknowledge that some intimate partners may face social stigma and a neutral stand of the law would be detrimental to the fundamental freedoms of the appellant. Therefore, a court while dealing with a petition for police protection by intimate partners on the grounds that they are a same sex, transgender, inter-faith or inter-caste couple must grant an ad-interim measure, such as immediately granting police protection to the petitioners, before establishing the threshold requirement of being at grave risk of violence and abuse. The protection granted to intimate partners must be with a view to maintain their privacy and dignity; k. The Court shall not pass any directions for counselling or parental care when the corpus is produced before the Court. The role of the Court is limited to ascertaining the will of the person. The Court must not adopt counselling as a means of changing the mind of the appellant, or the detained/missing person; l. The Judge during the interaction with the corpus to ascertain their views must not attempt to change or influence the admission of the sexual orientation or gender identity of the appellant or the corpus. The court must act swiftly against any queerphobic, transphobic, or otherwise derogatory conduct or remark by the alleged detainers, court staff, or lawyers; and m. Sexual orientation and gender identity fall in a core zone of privacy of an individual. These identities are a matter of self- identification and no stigma or moral must be imposed when dealing with cases involving parties from the LGBTQ+ community. Courts must exercise caution in passing any direction or making any comment which may be perceived as pejorative. 17. The above guidelines must be followed in letter and spirit as a mandatory minimum measure to secure the fundamental rights and dignity of intimate partners, and members of the LGBTQ+ communities in illegal detention. The court must advert to these guidelines and 1280 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports their precise adherence in the dealing with habeas corpus petitions or petition for police protection by intimate partners. 18. Insofar as the present facts are concerned, the Criminal Appeal is disposed of in view of the report of the Judicial Officer. 19. Pending applications, if any, stand disposed of. Headnotes prepared by: Result of the case: Niti Richhariya, Hony. Associate Editor Appeal disposed. (Verified by: Shibani Ghosh, Adv.)