It is further held that, if no interest is awarded, the “sum” comprises only the principal amount. The majority held that clause (a) of sub-section (7) of Section 31 of the 1996 Act refers to the total amount or sum for the payment for which the award is made. As such, the amount awarded under clause (a) of sub-section (7) of Section 31 of the 1996 Act would include the principal amount plus the interest amount pendente lite. It was held that the interest to be calculated as per clause (b) of sub-section (7) of Section 31 of the 1996 Act would be on the total sum arrived as aforesaid under clause (a) of sub-section (7) of Section 31 of the 1996 Act. S.A. Bobde, J. in his , has referred to various authorities of this Court as well as Maxwell on the Interpretation of Statutes. He emphasised that the Court must give effect to the plain, clear and unambiguous words of the legislature and it is not for the courts to add or subtract the words, even though the construction may lead to strange or surprising, unreasonable or unjust or oppressive results. 43.1. Since in that case interest was governed by Article 29.8 of the concession agreement between the parties, the Bench explained the power of the arbitral tribunal to award interest qua the agreement and held as follows: 17. It could thus be seen that the part which deals with the power of the Arbitral Tribunal to award 10 (2022) 9 SCC 286 [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1609 North Delhi Municipal Corporation v. M/s. S.A. Builders Ltd. interest, would operate if it is not otherwise agreed by the parties. If there is an agreement between the parties to the contrary, the Arbitral Tribunal would lose its discretion to award interest and will have to be guided by the agreement between the parties. The provision is clear that the Arbitral Tribunal is not bound to award interest. It has a discretion to award the interest or not to award. It further has a discretion to award interest at such rate as it deems reasonable. It further has a discretion to award interest on the whole or any part of the money. It is also not necessary for the Arbitral Tribunal to award interest for the entire period between the date on which the cause of action arose and the date on which the award is made. It can grant interest for the entire period or any part thereof or no interest at all. 44. Again in the case of Morgan Securities & Credits (P) Ltd. Vs. Videocon Industries Ltd.,11 the issue before this Court was whether the expression unless the award otherwise directs appearing in Section 31(7)(b) of the 1996 Act only provides the arbitrator the discretion to determine the rate of interest or both the rate of interest and the ‘sum’ which must be paid. After an exhaustive examination, this Court summarized the findings as under: 28.1. The of the two-Judge Bench in S.L.