This was contrary to the earlier process, wherein biosafety dossier as regards Bt cotton and Bt brinjal was put in the public domain on the website of GEAC upon being directed by [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2027 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. this Court and whereupon on critical examination of the same by national and international experts, the approval given by GEAC had to be put on hold by the Ministry, as it became apparent that GEAC had not complied with the regulatory mechanism and the biosafety and ERA of Bt brinjal was totally lacking. 17.7 Learned counsel also brought to our notice the following three reports which have discussed in detail the issue of GM crops: a. Thirty-Seventh (37th) report of PSC on Agriculture (2011-2012) titled “Cultivation of Genetically Modified Food Crops – Prospects and Effects” (hereinafter referred to as the “37th Report of PSC”). b. Final Report of the five original members of the TEC submitted to this Court on 30.06.2013. c. Three Hundred and First (301st) report of the Department related PSC on Science and Technology, Environment & Forests, titled, “Genetically Modified Crops and its impact on Environment” (2017). 17.8 The deposition of Dr. P.M. Bhargava, Molecular Biologist, Founder Director, CCMB, Hyderabad, appointed as an independent expert on GEAC by this Court vide dated 13.02.2008, as recorded in the 37th report of PSC, was also read out to us. Similarly, the observations and recommendations of the TEC as regards GEAC being the regulator have been read out to us during the course of the submissions. We shall refer to the relevant portions of these reports a little later. 17.9 It was next contended that although the ubiquitous glyphosate has been used for over four decades as the safest herbicide, glufosinate is acknowledged as more toxic than glyphosate as it kills indiscriminately soil organisms, beneficial insects etc. It was also submitted that neurotoxin can cause birth defects and damage to most plants that it comes into contact with. It is banned in Europe and not permitted in India under the Insecticides Act, 1968 for mustard. It is an organophosphorus compound (toxic to biology) very similar in structure to glyphosate and as weeds become more resistant, they will eventually be resistant to all known herbicides. 2028 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 17.10 It was lastly submitted that the DBT, Ministry of Science & Technology is an active partner and funder in this venture of HT DMH-11. The DBT directly oversees the regulation of GMOs including HT mustard and houses the Regulators and the RCGM. The conflict of interest in GMO Regulators and relevant Ministry has not been recognised as unconscionable and an ethical breach of public trust doctrine. Attention was drawn to the fact that Prof. Pental himself had been involved in the regulatory oversight of Bt brinjal and there is a tied-in relationship that obscures the line of separation that must be rigorously maintained between the Regulators and the regulated, if stringent norms of GMO risk assessment and biosafety are to be maintained for this hazardous technology.