In this background, the onus to first prove as to how the amount that is said to have been given by the complainant to the petitioners could have been given, would not be fatal as receipt of the amount(s) has not been denied, much less disputed by the petitioners. In this regard, specifically, a suggestion given to the GPA-holder of the complainant i.e., PW1 that the complainant and petitioners were engaged in film production has been emphatically denied by PW1. 12. We also find no error in the High Court opining that in the backdrop of emphatic denial by PW1 with regard to any joint deal/venture with 2256 [2025] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the petitioners in film production and acceptance and non-rebuttal of receipt of Rs.41,28,000/- (Rupees Forty-One Lakhs Twenty- Eight Thousand), the onus would not shift on the complainant and would remain on the petitioners to prove that such receipt of money was not with regard to repayment of an amount legally due to the complainant. In fact, the accused have not been able to dislodge the statutory presumption under Section 139 of the Act. In this context, in a decision of recent vintage, Rajesh Jain v Ajay Singh, (2023) 10 SCC 148, the Court stated: ‘33. The NI Act provides for two presumptions : Section 118 and Section 139. Section 118 of the Act inter alia directs that it shall be presumed, until the contrary is proved, that every negotiable instrument was made or drawn for consideration. Section 139 of the Act stipulates that “unless the contrary is proved, it shall be presumed, that the holder of the cheque received the cheque, for the discharge of, whole or part of any debt or liability”. It will be seen that the “presumed fact” directly relates to one of the crucial ingredients necessary to sustain a conviction under Section 138. [The rules discussed hereinbelow are common to both the presumptions under Section 139 and Section 118 and are hence, not repeated—reference to one can be taken as reference to another] 34. Section 139 of the NI Act, which takes the form of a “shall presume” clause is illustrative of a presumption of law. Because Section 139 requires that the Court “shall presume” the fact stated therein, it is obligatory on the Court to raise this presumption in every case where the factual basis for the raising of the presumption had been established. But this does not preclude the person against whom the presumption is drawn from rebutting it and proving the contrary as is clear from the use of the phrase “unless the contrary is proved”. 35. The Court will necessarily presume that the cheque had been issued towards discharge of a legally enforceable debt/liability in two circumstances. Firstly, when the drawer of the cheque admits issuance/execution of the cheque [2025] 4 S.C.R. 2257 State (NCT) of Delhi v. Rajeev Sharma and secondly, in the event where the complainant proves that cheque was issued/executed in his favour by the drawer.