The particulars about the political party to which the contributions were made which is crucial to the right to information of political funding cannot be identified through the matching exercise. 127. With respect to contributions to an Electoral Trust, a voter receives partial information. The voter would know the total amount contributed by the donor and that the donor contributed to one of the political parties (in case the Electoral Trust has made contributions to multiple parties). But the donor would not be aware of the exact details of the contribution. 128. Assuming that anonymity incentivizes contributions through banking channels (which would lead to curbing black money in the electoral process), electoral bonds would be the most effective means in curbing black money, followed by Electoral Trust, and then other means of electronic transfer. This conclusion is premised on the belief that the Electoral Bond curbs black money. However, the Scheme is not fool-proof. The Electoral Bond Scheme does not provide any regulatory check to prevent the trading of bonds though Clause 14 of the Electoral Bond Scheme states that the bonds shall not be eligible for trading. 129. On an overall balance of the impact of the alternative means on the right to information and its ability to fulfill the purpose, for contributions below twenty thousand rupees, contributions through other means of electronic transfer is the least restrictive means. For contributions [2024] 2 S.C.R. 518 Digital Supreme Court Reports above twenty thousand rupees, contributions through Electoral Trust is the least restrictive means. Having concluded that the Electoral Bond Scheme is not the least restrictive means to achieve the purpose of curbing black money in electoral process, there is no necessity of applying the balancing prong of the proportionality standard. 130. Based on the above discussion, we conclude that Electoral Bond Scheme does not fulfill the least restrictive means test. The Electoral Bond Scheme is not the only means for curbing black money in Electoral Finance. There are other alternatives which substantially fulfill the purpose and impact the right to information minimally when compared to the impact of electoral bonds on the right to information. b. |Donor Privacy 131. The Union of India submitted that information about financial contributions to political parties is not disclosed to protect the contributor’s informational privacy to political affiliation. There are two limbs to the argument of the Union of India with respect to the purpose of donor privacy. First, that the State interest in introducing the Electoral Bond Scheme which guarantees confidentiality (or anonymity) to financial contributions is that it furthers donor privacy; and second, this State interest facilitates a guaranteed fundamental right. Thus, the submission of the State is that the right to information can be restricted even if donor privacy is not traceable to the grounds in Article 19(2) because privacy is a fundamental right in itself. This Court needs to decide the following issues to determine if the right to information of voters can be restricted on the ground of donor privacy: a.