v. Kanchan Mehta (2018) 1 SCC 560 after discussing the series of s including the JIK Industries Ltd. (supra) observed that even in the absence of ‘consent’ court can close criminal 212 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports proceedings against an accused in cases of section 138 of NI Act if accused has compensated the complainant. The exact words of this Court were as follows: “18.3. Though compounding requires consent of both parties, even in absence of such consent, the court, in the interests of justice, on being satisfied that the complainant has been duly compensated, can in its discretion close the proceedings and discharge the accused.” In our opinion, Kanchan Mehta (supra) nowhere contemplates that ‘compounding’ can be done without the ‘consent’ of the parties and even the above observation of Kanchan Mehta (supra) giving discretion to the trial court to ‘close the proceedings and discharge the accused’, by reading section 2581 of CrPC, has been held to be ‘not a good law’ by this Court in the subsequent 5 judges bench judgement in Expeditious Trial of Cases Under Section 138 of NI Act, 1881, In re, (2021) 16 SCC 1162. All the same, in this particular given case even though the complainant has been duly compensated by the accused yet the complainant does not agree for the compounding of the offence, the courts cannot compel the complainant to give ‘consent’ for compounding of the matter. It is also true that mere repayment of the amount cannot mean that the appellant is absolved from the criminal liabilities under Section 138 of the NI Act. But this case has some peculiar facts as well. In the present case, the appellant has already been in jail for more than 1 year before being released on bail and has also compensated the complainant. Further, in compliance of the dated 08.08.2023, the appellant has deposited an additional amount of Rs.10 lacs. There is no purpose now to keep the proceedings pending in appeal before the lower appellate court. Here, we would like to point out that quashing of a case is different from compounding. 1 258. Power to stop proceedings in certain cases.—In any summons-case instituted otherwise than upon complaint, a Magistrate of the first class or, with the previous sanction of the Chief Judicial Magistrate, any other Judicial Magistrate, may, for reasons to be recorded by him, stop the proceedings at any stage without pronouncing any and where such stoppage of proceedings is made after the evidence of the principal witnesses has been recorded, pronounce a of acquittal, and in any other case, release the accused, and such release shall have the effect of discharge. 2 Para 20. [2024] 5 S.C.R. 213 Raj Reddy Kallem v. The State of Haryana & Anr. This Court in JIK Industries Ltd.3(Supra) distinguished the quashing of case from compounding in the following words: “Quashing of a case is different from compounding. In quashing the court applies it but in compounding it is primarily based on consent of the injured party.