In jurisdictions such as India, which accept the doctrine of competence-competence, only prima facie proof of the existence of an arbitration agreement must be adduced before the Referral Court. The Referral Court is not the appropriate forum to conduct a mini-trial by allowing the parties to adduce the evidence in regard to the existence or validity of an arbitration agreement. The determination of the existence and validity of an arbitration agreement on the basis of evidence ought to be left to the Arbitral Tribunal. This position of law can also be gauged from the plain language of the statute. 167. Section 11(6-A) uses the expression “examination of the existence of an arbitration agreement”. The purport of using the word “examination” connotes that the legislature intends that the Referral Court has to inspect or scrutinise the dealings between the parties for the existence of an arbitration agreement. Moreover, the expression “examination” does not connote or imply a laborious or contested inquiry. [ P. Ramanatha Aiyar, The Law Lexicon (2nd Edn., 1997) 666.] On the other hand, Section 16 provides that the Arbitral Tribunal can “rule” on its jurisdiction, including the existence and validity of an arbitration agreement. A “ruling” connotes adjudication of disputes after admitting evidence from the parties. Therefore, it is evident that the Referral Court is only required to examine the existence of arbitration agreements, whereas the Arbitral Tribunal ought to rule on its jurisdiction, including the issues pertaining to the existence and validity of an arbitration agreement. […] xxx xxx xxx 169. When the Referral Court renders a prima facie opinion, neither the Arbitral Tribunal, nor the Court enforcing the arbitral award will be bound by such a prima facie view. [2024] 9 S.C.R. 933 Ajay Madhusudan Patel & Ors. v. Jyotrindra S. Patel & Ors. If a prima facie view as to the existence of an arbitration agreement is taken by the Referral Court, it still allows the Arbitral Tribunal to examine the issue in depth. Such a legal approach will help the Referral Court in weeding out prima facie non-existent arbitration agreements. It will also protect the jurisdictional competence of the Arbitral Tribunals to decide on issues pertaining to the existence and validity of an arbitration agreement.” (Emphasis supplied) 62. This very Bench in SBI General Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Krish Spinning reported in (2024) SCC OnLine SC 1754 dealt with the scope and standard of judicial scrutiny in an application made under Section 11(6) of the Act, 1996 specifically when a plea of “accord and satisfaction” is taken by the defendant. It was observed that in a scenario where the Courts delve into the domain of the arbitral tribunal at the Section 11 stage and reject the application, there is a risk of leaving the claimant forum-less for the adjudication of its claims. It was stated that a detailed examination at this stage would also be counterproductive to the objective of expediency in deciding a Section 11 application and simplification of pleadings. It was also stated that even if ex-facie frivolity is made out by the referral court, the arbitral tribunal has the benefit of extensive pleadings and evidentiary material and therefore, it would be incorrect to doubt that the arbitral tribunal would not be able to arrive at a similar conclusion.