It is submitted that the matter for revision, if any, is to be considered at the highest level. Be that as it may, in to expedite the matter, before any further is passed, it would be appropriate that the Principal Secretary, Law and Justice, Government of Uttar Pradesh, shall appear along with the records and apprise the Court of the stand of the State Government in the matter. Amendment application is allowed. Learned counsel for the petitioner to file an amended copy of the writ petition.” (emphasis supplied) 12. When the writ petition was heard on 12 January 2023, the Principal Secretary, Law and Justice, Government of Uttar Pradesh was present before the High Court. Further, it was submitted before the High Court that the Rules proposed by the Chief Justice were pending consideration, certain queries were made to the High Court and the matter would be placed before the Cabinet for approval. The High Court listed the case for 19 January 2023 and noted that “on the said date, it is expected that the queries/clarification would be addressed by the concerned committee.” (of the High Court). 13. On 19 January 2023, the counsel on behalf of the High Court submitted that while the queries about the Rules were resolved by the High Court, the State Government was raising queries in a piecemeal manner to keep the matter pending for a long period. The Additional Advocate General submitted that the Rules involve an amendment to the existing scheme and would be examined by the State Government expeditiously. 222 [2024] 1 S.C.R. DIGITAL SUPREME COURT REPORTS 14. On the next date, 23 March 2023, the High Court expressed its displeasure about the delay by the State Government in notifying the Rules and revising the post-retiral benefits granted to former judges of the High Court. The High Court stated that it is “constrained to summon the Finance Secretary, Government of UP and all the associated Officers dealing with the file along with the Principal Secretary (Law), Government of UP to appear along with the records on the next date fixed.” 15. On 4 April 2023, the High Court passed the First Impugned . As directed, the Special Secretary, Finance and Principal Secretary, Law, Government of Uttar Pradesh were present. The High Court noted the submission by the Principal Secretary, Law that the matter was placed before the Finance Department on six occasions, but approval was not accorded. On the other hand, the Secretary, Finance submitted that the Rules are beyond the competence of the Chief Justice and do not fall within the ambit of Article 229 of the Constitution. The High Court observed that the objection with regard to the competence of the Chief Justice was being raised for the first time before the High Court. The High Court observed that: “5. On perusal of the record with the assistance of the learned Additional Advocate General, we do not find any such objection which is being pressed before this Court. In other words, the attitude of the officers of the Finance Department is not only contemptuous, but at the same time their stand/submission with regard to the competence of the Hon’ble Chief Justice/ Article 229 is not reflected from the record” 16.