It will be apropos to mention here that the agreements were not only between different parties but also were executed during different periods, by which time the Explanation I to Article 25 of Schedule I underwent a change. The words “without executing the conveyance in respect thereof” was deleted with effect from 17.08.1994 by Maharashtra Act 38 of 1994. The above Explanation I makes it lucid that an agreement for sale is to be treated as a “conveyance” if either possession is handed over immediately or if it is agreed to be handed over within a particular time. A reading of the above Explanation I along with Section 4 makes it clear that the duty is levied only on the instrument and not on the transaction. This court, in Veena Hasmukh Jain v. State of Maharashtra (1999) 5 SCC 725 : 1999 SCC Online SC 78 while dealing with the question as to whether 888 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the agreement to sell can be treated as document of conveyance, liable to stamp duty held as follows: “4. On examination of these terms, the High Court took the view that the agreement in question could be construed to be a conveyance falling under Section 2(g) of the Bombay Stamp Act inasmuch as the right, title and interest in the flat stands transferred in favour of the purchaser on payment of instalments as provided therein. 5. The High Court also examined the scope of Explanation I to Article 25 of Schedule I of the Bombay Stamp Act and held that the same was attracted to the case. Under the agreement, there is an obligation to hand over the possession even before execution of a conveyance and, therefore, it was a “conveyance” for the purpose of duty payable under the Bombay Stamp Act and there was no obligation in the agreement to enter into a conveyance at a later stage and clearly it was a case which attracted the said Explanation. Handing over of the possession on the very date of execution was not relevant for determining the nature of the document. On that basis, the High Court upheld the stand taken by the State in the matter of levy of duty. Other questions raised in the writ petition are not the subject-matter of these appeals and, therefore, we do not advert to those questions. On the conclusion reached by the High Court, the writ petition stood dismissed. 6. The learned counsel appearing for the appellants urged before us that the conclusion reached by the High Court either on the question of construction of the agreement amounting to a “conveyance” or on the applicability of Explanation I to Article 25 of Schedule I to the Bombay Stamp Act is incorrect. It was submitted that the agreement in question had been executed only in terms of Section 4 of the MOF Act and that under the scheme of the Act, a deed of conveyance had to be drawn in terms of Section 11 thereof.