This was one of the reasons for respondent No.3 to file the Writ Petition (Crl.) No.135 of 2022 before this Court. However, subsequently, when a direction was issued by this Court to the first respondent State of Gujarat to consider the application for remission, the opinion of the local Sessions Court at Dahod was obtained and the opinion of the Special Judge, Mumbai where the trial had taken place was ignored. The Sessions Court at Dahod obviously had not complied with the mandatory requirements noted above under sub-section (2) of Section 432 of the CrPC inasmuch as the opinion was not forwarded along with reasons having regard to the record of the trial as no trial had taken place before the Sessions Court, Dahod. Further, the Presiding Judge of the Sessions Court, Dahod also did not forward any certified copy of the record of the trial. Moreover, learned Sessions Judge at Dahod was also a member of the Jail Advisory Committee. 52.5. We further observe that the Presiding Judge of the Court before which the conviction happens can never be a Member of the Jail Advisory Committee, inasmuch he is an independent authority who should give his opinion on the application seeking remission which is a mandatory requirement as per the requirements of sub-section (2) of Section 432. In the instant case, the opinion given by the District & Sessions Judge at Dahod is vitiated for two reasons: firstly, because he was not the Presiding Judge before which the conviction of respondent Nos.3 to 13 took place; and, secondly, if the Presiding Judge of the Court where the conviction occurred is an independent authority which must be consulted by the appropriate Government then he could not have been a Member of the Jail Advisory Committee as in the instant case. 52.6. On perusal of the counter affidavit of the respondent-State of Gujarat, it is noted that pursuant to the applications filed by respondent Nos.4 to 13(respondent No.3 had filed his application before State of Maharashtra on 01.08.2019) seeking 894 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports pre-mature release or remission, opinion of the Special Judge (CBI), City Civil & Sessions Court, Greater Mumbai was taken by the State of Gujarat and in respect of all the respondent Nos.3 to 13 the categorical opinion was that having regard to the Government’s Resolution dated 11.04.2008, issued by the State of Maharashtra, said prisoners should not be released pre-maturely. Had the State of Maharashtra considered the applications of respondent Nos.3 to 13 for remission, this vital opinion of the Presiding Judge of the Court which had convicted them would have carried weight in the mind of the Government of the State of Maharashtra as well as the terms of the Government’s Resolution dated 11.04.2008 which was the applicable policy for remission. In fact, the first respondent, namely, the Government of the State of Gujarat, which usurped the power of the Government of the State of Maharashtra, simply brushed aside the opinion of the Special Judge (CBI), Greater Mumbai.