In General Manager, Kisan Sahkari Chini Mills Ltd. v. Satrughan Nishad (supra), the Supreme Court observed that a writ will lie against a private body only when it performed a public function or discharged a public duty. The ‘R.I.L.’ is not performing a public function nor discharging a public duty. It is only doing a commercial activity. Hence, no writ lies against it. *** 58. Even if the aforesaid dictum of the Supreme Court is applied in the case in hand, it is difficult for this Court to take the view that as the writ applicant is not responsible for the change of circumstances and the writ application was maintainable at the time when it was filed, a writ can be issued to a private entity for the purpose of enforcing the fundamental rights of the writ applicant alleged to have been infringed [2024] 6 S.C.R. 951 Mr. R.S. Madireddy and Anr. etc. v. Union of India & Ors. etc. by a company, a public sector undertaking at a point of time and now no longer in existence. It is also not legally permissible to take the view that since the I.P.C.L. was a Government of India undertaking, a writ could be issued against the Union of India. An employee of a public sector undertaking by itself will not be a civil servant or an employee of the Union of India. At best, he could be termed as an employee of a company owned by the Government. Therefore, even ignoring the I.P.C.L., no liability could be fastened even on the Government of India at this stage. 59. I am not impressed by the submission of Mr. Bhatt that the writ applicant has no other alternative remedy, except invoking the writ jurisdiction of this Court. According to Mr. Bhatt, since the original writ applicant i.e. the employee has passed away, it will be legally impermissible for the legal heirs to file a civil suit for declaration for the purpose of challenging the of dismissal from service. The legal heirs on record can definitely file a civil suit for declaration that the departmental inquiry was not conducted in a fair and transparent manner and the consequential of dismissal is illegal. Section 14 of the Limitation Act would also save the situation. Section 14 of the Limitation Act itself is meant for the suits.” (emphasis supplied) 26. The same controversy was also considered by a learned Single Judge of the Delhi High Court in the case of Asulal Loya (supra) which was a case involving the termination of services of the writ petitioner-employee by the company Bharat Aluminium Company Limited (BALCO) which was previously a Government of India Undertaking and was privatized pursuant to the tripartite share purchase agreement. The employee-writ petitioner filed a writ petition before the Delhi High Court to challenge his termination wherein, a preliminary objection was raised regarding maintainability of the writ petition on the ground that during pendency of the proceedings, the company had changed hands and no longer retained the characteristic of a ‘State’ or ‘Other authority’ as defined under Article 12 of the Constitution of India.