Q. DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 51. Based on the aforesaid broad features of the law as laid down, we shall analyze the action of the proposed contemnors for the purpose of deciding their action to be wilful and contumacious. On the factual score, to the credit of learned counsel for the proposed contemnors, they have not advanced an argument to the effect that the assurance recorded by this Court on 21st November, 2023, on a statement made by the learned counsel appearing on behalf of Patanjali, cannot be treated as an undertaking given to the Court or that it does not bind them. As a recall, on the aforesaid date, learned Senior Advocate appearing for Patanjali had made a statement on instructions and assured this Court that in future, there shall not be any violation of the law, especially the laws relating to advertising or branding of products manufactured and marketed by Patanjali. Further, an assurance was given to the Court that no casual statements claiming medicinal efficacy of the products of Patanjali or against any system of medicine will be released to the media in any form. Not only was the aforesaid statement made a part of the dated 21st November, 2023, this Court had bound Patanjali down to the terms of the undertaking. 52. In the teeth of the aforesaid clear, categorical and unambiguous assurance given by Patanjali to the Court and knowing that the said assurance was given by its counsel on instructions and further, that Patanjali had been bound down to such an assurance, there was no justification for the proposed contemnors to have called for a Press Conference on the very next day, i.e., on 22 November 2023. The fact that the proposed contemnors were aware of the [2024] 8 S.C.R. 447 In Re: Patanjali Ayurved Ltd. Through Its Mangg. Dir., Acharya Balkrishna & Baba Ramdev in The Matter of: Indian Medical Asso. and another v. Union of India and others undertaking given to this Court on their behalf by their counsel is evident from their statements made in the Press Conference where they acknowledged that an had been passed by this Court on 21st November, 2023. Despite that, accusatory statements were made by them against practicing Doctors to the effect that they were spreading false propaganda that “there is no cure for deceases like B.P., thyroid, sugar, asthma, arthritis, kidney and liver failure”. 53. Furthermore, the proposed contemnors being well aware of the statement recorded on their behalf on 21st November, 2023 to the effect that Patanjali shall not violate any laws, especially laws relating to advertising or branding of products manufactured and marketed by it, a positive assertion was made by them in the Press Conference that they have medicines that could cure blood pressure, thyroid, type-I diabetes and asthma. This statement was in violation of the provisions of the DMR Act and Rules. Describing the products manufactured by Patanjali as a “permanent solution” in respect of ailments listed in the Schedule appended to the DMR Act and Rules which prohibit advertisement of drugs for treatment of particular diseases and diss including those that were referred to by the proposed contemnors in the Press Conference, again amounted to violating the undertaking given to the Court.