[2024] 6 S.C.R. 214 : 2024 INSC 403 Shriram Chits (India) Private Limited Earlier Known as Shriram Chits (K) Pvt. Ltd v. Raghachand Associates (Civil Appeal No. 6301 of 2024) 10 May 2024 [Pamidighantam Sri Narasimha and Aravind Kumar,* JJ.] Issue for Consideration Matter pertains to the maintainability of the complaint, whether the service obtained by the complainant was for a commercial purpose. Headnotes Consumer Protection Act, 1986 – s. 2(7) – Maintainability of complaint – Consumer complaint before the district forum alleging deficiency of service and seeking refund of amount from the opposite party – Instead of examining whether the service availed by complainant was for commercial purpose, the district forum determined whether the complainant fell within the definition of ‘person’ and holding that there was ‘deficiency in service’, ed for refund of the claimed amount with interest – Said upheld by forums below without examining the maintainability issue – Maintainability challenge before this Court, as to whether the service obtained by complainant was for commercial purpose: Held: Onus to prove that the service was obtained for a commercial purpose is on the service provider – Standard of proof has to be measured against a ‘preponderance of probabilities’ – If and only if, the service provider discharges its onus of showing that the service was availed, in fact for a commercial purpose, does the onus shift back to the complainant to bring its case within the third part-explanation (a) to s. 2(7) to show that the service was obtained exclusively for the purpose of earning its livelihood by means of self-employment – Plea of the opposite party that the complainant has not pleaded nor proved that the service was obtained for earning his livelihood through the means of self employment, relates to the third part of the definition of consumer – Question of inquiring into the third part would only arise if the service provider succeeds in crossing the second part by discharging its onus and proving that * Author [2024] 6 S.C.R. 215 Shriram Chits (India) Private Limited Earlier Known as Shriram Chits (K) Pvt. Ltd v. Raghachand Associates the service obtained was for a commercial purpose – Unless the service provider discharges its onus, the onus does not shift back to the complainant to show that the service obtained was exclusively for earning its livelihood through the means of self-employment – On facts, opposite party merely pleaded in its version that the service was obtained for commercial purpose – No evidence led to probabilise its case other than merely restating its claim on affidavit – Plea without proof and proof without plea is no evidence in the eyes of law, thus, the matter dismissed. [Paras 21-23] Consumer Protection Act, 1986 – Technical pleas – Manner in which consumer forums must decide the pleas – Plea raised by service providers that the services obtained/goods bought was for a commercial purpose and, thus, the complaint filed on behalf of such persons not maintainable: Held: Such pleas are decided on the manner in which the issues are framed – Unless the burden of proof is properly cast on the relevant party, the consumer forum would not be in a position to arrive at proper decision – Thus, guidance provided on how the issues must be framed and the manner in which the evidence must be appreciated.