[2024] 3 S.C.R. 913 : 2024 INSC 215 Navas @ Mulanavas v. State of Kerala (Criminal Appeal No. 1215 of 2011) 18 March 2024 [B. R. Gavai, K.V. Viswanathan* and Sandeep Mehta, JJ.] Issue for Consideration Appellant-accused was held guilty for the offences punishable u/ ss.302, 449, 309, IPC and sentenced accordingly. For the offence punishable u/s.302, IPC, he was sentenced to death. High Court confirmed the conviction, however the sentence of death was modified and reduced to imprisonment for life with a direction that he shall not be released from prison for a period of 30 years including the period already undergone with set off u/s.428, Cr.P.C. alone. What should be the appropriate sentence and whether the High Court was justified in adopting the Swamy Shraddananda v. State of Karnataka [2008] 11 SCR 93 line of cases and whether the fixing of the quantum at 30 years without remission was the appropriate sentence, in the facts and circumstances of the case? Headnotes Sentence/Sentencing – Murder – Appropriate period of sentence to be imposed under the Swamy Shraddananda v. State of Karnataka [2008] 11 SCR 93 principle wherein it was held that to avoid a death sentence, the courts can device a graver form of imprisonment for life beyond fourteen years – Aggravating and mitigating circumstances – Relevant factors for arriving at the number of years which the convict will have to undergo before which remission could be sought – Trial Court sentenced the accused to death for the offence punishable u/s.302, IPC – High Court confirmed the conviction, however modified the death sentence to imprisonment for 30 years without remission following the Swamy Shraddananda line of cases – Correctness: Held: Circumstances of the present case were by themselves consistent with the sole hypothesis that the accused and the accused alone was the perpetrator of the murders – On the aggravating side, act committed by the accused was pre-planned/ * Author 914 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports premeditated; he brutally murdered 4 unarmed and defenseless persons, one of whom was a child and the other an aged lady – By the act of the accused, three generations of single family lost their lives for no fault of theirs; nature of injuries inflicted on ‘L’ and two others highlights the brutality and cold-bloodedness of the act – On the mitigating side, the accused was quite young (28 years old) when he committed the act; the act committed was not for any gain or profit; he did not try to flee and in fact tried to commit suicide as he was overcome with emotions after the dastardly act; he had been in jail for 18 years and 4 months and the case was based on circumstantial evidence – Further, conduct report of the appellant indicated that no disciplinary actions were initiated against him in the prison and his conduct and behavior had been satisfactory so far – of the High Cout is upheld insofar as the conviction of the appellant u/ss.302, 449, 309 IPC is concerned – Sentence imposed for the offence u/ss.449, 309, IPC also not interfered with – High Court was justified on the facts of the case in following Swamy Shraddananda principle while imposing sentence for the offence u/s.302 IPC – However, the sentence u/s.302 imposed by the High Court is modified from a period of 30 years imprisonment without remission to that of a period of 25 years imprisonment without remission, including the period already undergone.