The Tribunal relied upon a decision of this Court in the case of Commissioner of Central Excise, Vapi v. Kraftech Products Inc.2. The Tribunal proceeded to set aside the Commissioner’s . SUBMISSIONS 5. The learned counsel appearing for the appellant submitted that the decision of this Court in the case of Commissioner of Central Excise, Vapi2, has no application as the assessee in the said case was selling three sachets of 3 gms of hair dye in one pack. Learned counsel pointed out that thus the total weight of the pack was 9 gms, which was covered by the exemption under Section 34(b) of the said Rules. The learned counsel pointed out that the weight of poly packs and HDPE bags is much more than 10 gms in the present case. Learned counsel submitted that what was being sold by the respondent was a group package meant for retail sale, and therefore, Section 4A was rightly applied by the Commissioner. Learned counsel submitted that even otherwise, as the poly packs are not sold by weight or measure, Rule 34 (b) of the said Rules has no application. Learned counsel submitted that the Tribunal had not considered the factual position in this case, which the Commissioner considered in detail. Learned counsel further submitted that one pouch of 15 gms quantity of chewable tobacco forms part of the poly pack on which the respondent was admittedly paying duty in accordance with Section 4A of the Excise Act. Learned counsel has taken us through the relevant provisions of the said Rules. 2 [2008] 5 SCR 251 : (2008) 12 SCC 321 122 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 6. The learned counsel representing the respondent supported the impugned and urged that the principles laid down by this Court in the case of Commissioner of Central Excise, Vapi 2, will squarely apply. It was submitted that HDPE bags containing 100 poly packs containing 34 pouches was not meant for retail sale; therefore, it cannot be treated as a group package, and it has to be a wholesale package that is not meant for retail sale. Learned counsel submitted that there is no need to interfere with the impugned , which takes the correct view. CONSIDERATION OF SUBMISSIONS 7. It is not in dispute that the respondent is dealing with chewing tobacco. From 7th April 2003, the respondent started the practice of packing together 33 pouches of 6 gms each and one pouch of 15 gms of chewing tobacco in a larger poly pack. The Revenue contends that as the larger poly pack has weight and MRP printed on it, the same was a group package intended for retail sale. The case made out in the show cause notices is that the poly pack contains a quantity of more than 10 gms of chewing tobacco, and therefore, exemption under Rule 34(b) of the said Rules will not apply. As can be seen from Clause (b) of Rule 34 of the said Rules, the exemption will apply to any package containing a commodity if the net weight of the commodity is 10 gms or less and if the same is being sold by weight.