A Full Bench of the Gauhati High Court opined that the right to claim interest under the said statute would not extend to agreements or contracts entered prior to 23.09.1992. 5. In this , we shall discuss the factual position involved in the petition filed by the appellant in the lead matter. Its case had ultimately reached this Court and in the delivered on 23.01.2019, it was held by the three Judge Bench that the material date for instituting the suit for interest would depend on whether delivery was made by the supplier after coming into operation of the said statute or not. If that was the case, then a suit for recovery of interest on delayed payment would be maintainable in the opinion of the three Judge Bench. In the case of the appellant before us, the three Judge Bench found no evidence of any delivery being made subsequent to the statute becoming operational. What the appellant had sought to rely on was the dates of raising of bills subsequent to 23.09.1992. The three-Judge Bench of this Court was not satisfied that the goods were supplied subsequent to that date, in respect of which interest was being claimed on account of delayed payment. 6. As we have already indicated, the three Judge Bench of this Court dismissed the review petition in open court after oral hearing, finding no error apparent on the face of record of the under review. It was thereafter the curative petition was instituted with which we are concerned in this . 7. Under the Constitution of India or any other statutory provision, there is no specific jurisdiction conferred on this Court to entertain curative petitions excepting the Rules of this Court made in 2013. The Supreme Court Rules 2013 deals with the procedure for filing of curative petitions and we shall revert to these Rules later in this . Article 137 of the Constitution of India lays down the jurisdiction of the Court to review its own or . Article 145 of the Constitution of India empowers this Court to make rules for regulating the general practice and procedure of the Court. The said two Articles read:- 764 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “137: Review of judgements or s by the Supreme Court Subject to the provisions of any law made by Parliament or any rules made under Article 145, the Supreme Court shall have the power to review any pronounced or made by it. 145: Rules of Court, etc. (1) Subject to the provisions of any law made by Parliament, the Supreme Court may from time to time, with the approval of the President, make rules for regulating generally the practice and procedure of the Court including – (a) rules as to the persons practicing before the Court; (b) rules as to the procedure for hearing appeals and other matters pertaining to appeals including the time within which appeals to the Court are to be entered; (c) rules as to the proceedings in the Court for the enforcement of any of the rights conferred by Part III; (cc) rules as to the proceedings in the Court under Article 139A; (d) rules as to the entertainment of appeals under sub-clause (c) of clause (1) of article 134; (e) rules as to the conditions subject to which any pronounced or made by the Court may be reviewed and the procedure for such review including the time within which applications to the Court or such review are to be entered; (f) rules as to the costs of and incidental to any proceedings in the Court and as to the fees to be charged in respect of proceedings therein; (g) rules as to the granting of bail; [2024] 2 S.C.R.