2. Heard, Mr. Basant R., learned Senior Counsel for the appellants and Mr. Anshul Narayan, learned counsel for the respondent-State. 3. The question of seminal importance that arises for consideration can better be explained and understood by referring to a decision of this Court in Prem Shankar Prasad v. State of Bihar and Anr.1, which was rendered after referring to the earlier decisions of this Court in State of Madhya Pradesh v. Pradeep Sharma2 and Lavesh v. State (NCT of Delhi)3. In Lavesh’s case (supra), this Court held in paragraph 12 thus: - “12. From these materials and information, it is clear that the present appellant was not available for interrogation and investigation and declared as “absconder”. Normally, when the accused is “absconding” and declared as a “proclaimed offender”, there is no question of granting anticipatory bail. We reiterate that when a person against whom a warrant had been issued and is absconding or concealing himself in to avoid execution of warrant and declared as a proclaimed offender in terms 1 [2021] 6 SCR 1176 : (2022) 14 SCC 516 2 [2013] 12 SCR 772 : (2014) 2 SCC 171 3 [2012] 7 SCR 469 : (2012) 8 SCC 730 [2024] 3 S.C.R. 425 Srikant Upadhyay & Ors. v. State of Bihar & Anr. of Section 82 of the Code he is not entitled to the relief of anticipatory bail.” (Underline supplied) 4. In the decision in Pradeep Sharma’s case (supra) this Court held that if anyone is declared as an absconder/proclaimed offender in terms of Section 82 Cr.PC., he is not entitled to relief of anticipatory bail. After extracting Section 438, Cr.PC., it was further held therein thus:- “The above provision makes it clear that the power exercisable under Section 438 of the Code is somewhat extraordinary in character and it is to be exercised only in exceptional cases where it appears that the person may be falsely implicated or where there are reasonable grounds for holding that a person accused of an offence is not likely to otherwise misuse his liberty.” 5. In Prem Shankar Prasad’s case (supra), this Court took note of the fact that the respondent-accused was absconding and concealing himself to avoid service of warrant of arrest and the proceedings under Sections 82/83, Cr.PC have been initiated against him, set aside the of the High Court granting anticipatory bail ignoring the proceedings under Sections 82/83, Cr.PC. Thus, it is obvious that the position of law, which was being followed with alacrity, is that in cases where an accused against whom non-bailable warrant is pending and the process of proclamation under Sections 82/83, Cr.PC is issued, is not entitled to the relief of anticipatory bail. 6. The learned Senior Counsel appearing for the appellants-accused would contend that the well-nigh settled position of law in respect of pre-arrest bail as above, is inapplicable in a case where a person apprehending arrest has already filed an application seeking anticipatory bail and it is pending sans any interim s and during its pendency if the Trial Court issues proclamation under Section 82, Cr.PC.