Alternatively, the balance (if any) owed to the company is payable to the administrator as a part of the assets, subject to the exceptions as provided. 17.2 There are also decisions as in the case of National Westminster Bank Ltd. v. Halesowen Presswork & Assemblies Ltd.32, which highlight the mandatory nature of insolvency set-off in the United Kingdom. The Insolvency Rules, 1986 imply that the right to set-off co-exists with the moratorium during administration, because of the time at which the dues owed to each party are calculated.33 The set-off does not occur automatically once the company enters into the administration process. It applies once the intention to distribute the assets is announced by the administrator. Also, the doctrine of set-off does not apply in case of company voluntary arrangement under Part I of the Insolvency Act, 1986. Rory Derham observes that the insolvency set-off section not being expressly applicable to a company voluntary arrangement, any set-off, in the absence of contractual right of set-off, does not apply. He observes that the right to set-off in the absence of contractual right to set-off depends on the statute of set-off and equitable set-off. Further, a claim against the corporate debtor incurred after initiation of the administration cannot be set-off against the debtor’s cross-claim 32 1972 AC 785. 33 Derham, supra note 25, ¶6.124. 156 [2024] 1 S.C.R. DIGITAL SUPREME COURT REPORTS for lack of mutuality. A claim against the debtor after initiation of administration is not against the corporate debtor itself. 18. The High Court of Australia in Gye v. McIntyre34 states that the word ‘mutual’ conveys the notion of reciprocity rather than that of correspondence. Mutuality means that the demands must be between the same parties and they must be held in the same capacity, or right or interest. Mutuality is concerned with the status of the parties and their relationship with each other, and not with the nature of the claims themselves. There must be identity between the persons beneficially interested in the claims and the person against whom the claim existed. Therefore, an obligation arising out of an instrument may be set-off against a simple contract debt, and a secured debt may be set-off against an unsecured creditor. The court, however, expressed that the requirement of same parties means that A’s right to sue B cannot be set-off against A’s debt to C or that a joint demand cannot be set-off against a separate demand. 19. The Court of Appeal of Republic of Singapore in BP Singapore Pte Ltd v. Jurong Aromatics Corp Pte Ltd and Others35 observes that the requirement of mutuality will fail in respect of prior claims against the debtor company, where the receiver (read – Resolution Professional) carries on business of the debtor company under a specific agreement to which the creditor and the corporate debtor are also parties. 20. The Court of Appeal of Republic of Singapore in BP Singapore Pte Ltd. (supra) had also examined whether the claim of set-off in the said case was available under the head ‘equitable set-off’.