Entry 33(a) – List III is in the Concurrent List and it speaks of trade and commerce in, and production, supply and distribution of the products of any industry where the control of such industry by the Union is declared by Parliament by law to be expedient in the [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2145 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons public interest, and imported goods of the same kind as such products. A dissection of this Entry would indicate that insofar as products of any industry which is a scheduled industry in terms of a law made by Parliament by virtue of Entry 52 – List I viz. where the control of such scheduled industry has been assumed by the Union (insofar as trade and commerce in, and production, supply and distribution of the products of such industry), both the Union as well as the States have concurrent powers to enact laws. It must be remembered that Entry 33(a) – List III is a field of legislation and therefore, deals with the concurrent legislative competence of both the Union as well as the State Legislature. An enactment under such an Entry by the State is subject to the application of the principle of repugnancy as envisaged in Article 254 of the Constitution discussed above. 15.3 One cannot lose sight of the fact that the IDRA has been enacted by Parliament taking control of certain industries such as the “Fermentation Industries”, which is the subject matter of controversy in the present cases, on the strength of Entry 52 – List I. The degree of control envisaged under the various provisions of the IDRA have been detailed in the various provisions of the said Act. Section 18G was inserted to IDRA w.e.f. 01.10.1953. The said Section in the IDRA is also a provision which has been inserted pursuant to Entry 52 - List I. The said Section empowers the Central Government to issue a notified for securing the equitable distribution and availability at fair prices of any article or class of articles relatable to any scheduled industry. The expression “notified ” is defined in Section 3(e) of the IDRA to mean the issuance of a notification in the official gazette. 15.4 It is necessary to note that Entry 33(a) – List III will apply only when a law such as IDRA has been enacted pursuant to Entry 52 – List I, which has enabled the Union to take control of certain industries such as “Fermentation Industries”. While Entry 33(a) – List III is a field of legislation which deals with trade and commerce in, and the production, supply and distribution of, inter alia, the products of the scheduled industry under IDRA, Section 18G thereof deals with securing equitable distribution and availability at fair prices of any article or class of articles relatable to any scheduled industry. The Explanation 2146 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports to Section 18G states that the expression “article or class of articles” relatable to any scheduled industry includes any article or class of articles imported into India which is of the same nature or description as the article or class of articles manufactured or produced in the scheduled industry.