In the impugned , it held that the State suppressed certain title documents, which were for the first time produced before the Court by the first respondent as additional documents. The additional documents constituted, inter alia, an of the Board of Revenue, Andhra Pradesh dated 19th November, 1959, 1092 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports which confirmed that the subject land is private land and not inam or Government land. The first respondent justified the production of these documents on the ground that access to such documents was obtained only after the Division Bench (original) had rendered the and dated 16th August, 2018. It was argued that if the Division Bench (original) had the benefit of examination of such additional documents, it would not have set aside the dated 04th October, 2017 passed on the contempt petition. The Division Bench (review) held that since the first respondent had discovered new evidence which was unavailable at the earlier stage of proceedings, the threshold for maintainability of a review petition was satisfied. 11. While proceeding to determine the correctness of the impugned vis-à-vis the exercise of review jurisdiction, we ought to remind ourselves of certain cardinal principles. The exercise of review jurisdiction is not an inherent power given to the court; the power to review has to be specifically conferred by law. In civil proceedings, review jurisdiction is governed by section 114 read in conjunction with XLVII of the CPC and the court has to be certain that the elements prescribed therein are satisfied before exercising such power. This Court in Kamlesh Verma v. Mayawati 19 has succinctly observed that: “19. Review proceedings are not by way of an appeal and have to be strictly confined to the scope and ambit of 47 Rule 1 CPC.” (emphasis ours) 12. That the provisions contained in section 114 and XLVII of the CPC relating to review of an or decree are mandatory in nature and any petition for review not satisfying the rigours therein cannot be entertained ex debito justitiae, by a court of law, is trite. 13. There is a plethora of decisions analysing the statutory provisions governing the exercise of review jurisdiction; however, we would be referring to a few of them for the purpose of the present exercise. Suffice it to note that despite legal proceedings having commenced with institution of the civil suit as far back as in 1953, the present controversy has, as its source, a writ petition between the first respondent and the Tahsildar preferred in 2009. Although the explanation to section 19 [2013] 11 SCR 25 : (2013) 8 SCC 320 [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1093 S. Tirupathi Rao v. M. Lingamaiah & Ors. 141 of the CPC makes it clear that provisions of the CPC would not apply to proceedings under Article 226 of the Constitution, there is authority in abundance that the principles flowing from the CPC may safely be taken as a guide to decide writ proceedings but to the extent the same can be made applicable.