10. On the other hand, the Learned Counsel appearing on behalf of the Respondent submitted that the Respondent has since attained the age of superannuation and accordingly, no longer receives the aforementioned salary. It was submitted that the Respondent is only drawing pension from BSNL; and that the maintenance granted by the High Court ought not to be interfered with. 11. Considering the position of the parties and the totality of circumstances surrounding the present appeal(s), we are of the considered view that the Appellant should be granted a sum of Rs. 20,000/- (Rupees Twenty Thousand) per month as maintenance with effect from the date of this . 12. We accordingly allow the appeal(s) preferred by the Appellant and enhance the monthly maintenance payable under Section 18 of the Act from Rs.10,000/- (Rupees Ten Thousand) per month to Rs. 20,000/- (Rupees Twenty Thousand) per month with effect from the date of the pronouncement of this . Furthermore, the arrears payable in respect of the maintenance due to the Appellant shall be payable in equal instalments by the Respondent in addition to the regular maintenance as quantified by us above. 13. Resultantly, in furtherance of our s above, the Family Court, Jaipur is directed to: 1104 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (i) Quantify the total arrears due to the Appellant in terms of the Impugned ; (ii) Fixate the duration and the quantum of monthly payment to be made by the Respondent in furtherance of arrears of maintenance as computed in terms of Paragraph 13(i) above, in such a manner that the total amount i.e., (a) regular maintenance to the extent of Rs. 20,000/- (Rupees Twenty Thousand); and (b) the amount quantified towards the extinguishment of arrears of maintenance does not exceed 50% of the pension drawn by the Respondent from BSNL; (iii) Issue necessary directions to the BSNL to ensure that the total amount i.e., (a) regular maintenance to the extent of Rs. 20,000/- (Rupees Twenty Thousand); and (b) the additional monthly payment as more particularly identified in 13(ii) above, is credited into the Appellants’ bank account on an identified date of every calendar month; and (iv) A copy of this may also be sent to BSNL for necessary compliance and onward action (if any). 14. Further, it is made clear that the aforementioned quantification process would not interfere with our direction to the Respondent to pay the Appellant regular maintenance to the extent of Rs. 20,000/- (Rupees Twenty Thousand) per month with effect from the date of the pronouncement of this . Headnotes prepared by: Divya Pandey Result of the case: Appeals allowed.