4. The Single Judge of the Delhi High Court allowed the writ petition of the Respondent and directed the Union of India to accept her Overseas Citizen of India(OCI) Card without the presence of her spouse. It was held that it is not mandatory u/Clause 21.2.5(vi) of Chapter 21 of the Visa Manual for personal interview to be conducted for the spouse by the Indian Mission/Post/FRRO. In the absence of any rule or guideline mandating the presence of both spouses, the checklist should not have been formulated in such a manner so as to impose the condition. 5. On 25.3.2022, the Division Bench of the Delhi High Court upheld the of the Single Bench with a clarification that there would be no bar on the Union of India from carrying out investigation on the claim of the respondent in her application for the Overseas Citizen of India(OCI) Card. It was noted that the object of the enquiry is to be satisfied that the application is genuine and not founded upon a false claim for marriage. There could be cases where the Indian spouse may die or go missing. In such situations, it may not be possible to produce the Indian spouse. The Division Bench was of the view that insisting on producing the husband at the time of personal interview was clearly arbitrary and is only one of the modes by which genuineness of the claim can be satisfied. 6. Before this Court, it was projected from the side of the appellant that the checklist for considering an OCI card requires both the spouses to be present for an interview with the authorities. The Visa Manual was also referred to in the course of the proceeding to argue that the presence (physical or virtual) of both the applicants is essential. The Counsel for the respondent however contended that on account of the estranged relationship with her husband, the Indian citizen spouse is not available to appear before the authorities either physically or by virtual mode in support of her application for OCI card. It was further contended that since various legal proceedings are pending with the Indian husband, he is unlikely to appear before the authorities and because of the impossibility, the application be processed without insisting for the presence of the applicant’s spouse at the time of the personal interview. 824 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 7. In support of their respective contentions, both sides have relied on sub-Clause (d) Section 7A of the Citizenship Act, 1955, which requires that the applicant for OCI card must have solemnized a registered marriage with the Indian citizen and the marriage ought to have subsisted for not less than two years immediately preceding the presentation of the application. It was argued that the High Court failed to note that Section 7(1)(d) and Section 7(1)(f) of the Citizenship Act,1955 and para 21.1.4 and 21.2.5(vi) of the Visa Manual read together, not only require the genuineness of marriage but also whether there is a re-marriage or death of spouse etc.