2 SCR 295 : (1996) 4 SCC 622, para 38. 4 [1994] Suppl. 1 SCR 136 : (1994) 4 SCC 225. [2024] 3 S.C.R. 999 Bloomberg Television Production Services India Private Limited & Ors. v. Zee Entertainment Enterprises Limited “36. As a principle, ex parte injunction could be granted only under exceptional circumstances. The factors which should weigh with the court in the grant of ex parte injunction are— (a) whether irreparable or serious mischief will ensue to the plaintiff; (b) whether the refusal of ex parte injunction would involve greater injustice than the grant of it would involve; (c) the court will also consider the time at which the plaintiff first had notice of the act complained so that the making of improper against a party in his absence is prevented; (d) the court will consider whether the plaintiff had acquiesced for sometime and in such circumstances it will not grant ex parte injunction; (e) the court would expect a party applying for ex parte injunction to show utmost good faith in making the application. (f) even if granted, the ex parte injunction would be for a limited period of time. (g) General principles like prima facie case, balance of convenience and irreparable loss would also be considered by the court.” 7. Significantly, in suits concerning defamation by media platforms and/or journalists, an additional consideration of balancing the fundamental right to free speech with the right to reputation and privacy must be borne in mind.5 The constitutional mandate of protecting journalistic expression cannot be understated, and courts must tread cautiously while granting pre-trial interim injunctions. The standard to be followed may be borrowed from the decision in Bonnard v. Perryman.6 This standard, christened the ‘Bonnard standard’, laid down by the Court 5 R. Rajagopal v. State of Tamil Nadu, [1994] Suppl. 4 SCR 353 : (1994) 6 SCC 632. 6 (1891) 95 All ER 965. 1000 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of Appeal (England and Wales), has acquired the status of a common law principle for the grant of interim injunctions in defamation suits.7 The Court of Appeal in Bonnard (supra) held as follows: “…But it is obvious that the subject-matter of an action for defamation is so special as to require exceptional caution in exercising the jurisdiction to interfere by injunction before the trial of an action to prevent an anticipated wrong. The right of free speech is one which it is for the public interest that individuals should possess, and, indeed, that they should exercise without impediment, so long as no wrongful act is done; and, unless an alleged libel is untrue, there is no wrong committed; but, on the contrary, often a very wholesome act is performed in the publication and repetition of an alleged libel. Until it is clear that an alleged libel is untrue, it is not clear that any right at all has been infringed; and the importance of leaving free speech unfettered is a strong reason in cases of libel for dealing most cautiously and warily with the granting of interim injunctions.” (emphasis supplied) 8.