Is it punitive in infliction, or merely another form of exaction of money by one from another? If it is penal, it falls within implied powers. If it is an act of mere transference of money from the dealer to the State, then it falls outside the legislative entry. Such is the essence of the decisions which we will presently consider. There was a contention that the expression ‘forfeiture’ did not denote a penalty. This, perhaps, may have to be decided in the specific setting of a statute. But, speaking generally and having in mind the object of Section 37 read with Section 46, we are inclined to the view that forfeiture has a punitive impact. Black’s Legal Dictionary states that ‘to forfeit’ is ‘to lose, or lose the right to, by some error, fault, offence or crime’ ‘to incur a penalty.’ ‘Forfeiture’, as judicially annotated, is ‘a punishment annexed by law to some illegal act or negligence. . . .’; ‘something imposed as a punishment for an offence or delinquency.’ The word, in this sense, is frequently associated with the word ‘penalty’, According to Black’s Legal Dictionary. The terms ‘fine’, ‘forfeiture’ and ‘penalty’, are often used loosely and even confusedly; but when a discrimination is made, the word ‘penalty’ is found to be generic in its character, including both fine and forfeiture. A ‘fine’ is a pecuniary penalty and is commonly (perhaps always) to be collected by suit in some form. A ‘forfeiture’ is a penalty by which one loses his rights and interest in his property. More explicitly, the U. S. Supreme Court has explained the concept of ‘forfeiture’ in the context of statutory construction. Chief Justice Taney, in the State of Maryland v. The Baltimore & Ohio RR Co. 11 L ED. 714, 712 observed: And a provision, as in this case, that the party shall forfeit a particular sum, in case he does not perform an act required by law, has always, in the construction of statutes, been regarded not as a contract with the delinquent party, but as the punishment for an offence. Undoubtedly, in the case of individuals, the word forfeit is construed to be the language of contract, because contract is the only mode 64 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports in which one person can become liable to pay a penalty to another for breach of duty, or the failure to perform an obligation. In legislative proceedings, however, the construction is otherwise and a forfeiture is always to be regarded as a punishment inflicted for a violation of some duty enjoined upon the party by law; and such, very clearly, is the meaning of the word in the act in question 19. The same connotation has been imparted by our Court too. A Bench has held: Bankura Municipality v. Lalji Raja and Sons, 1953 Cri LJ 1101: According to the dictionary meaning of the word ‘forfeiture’ the loss or the deprivation of goods has got to be in consequence of a crime, offence or breach of engagement or has to be by way of penalty of the transgression or a punishment for an offence.