Having regard to the above position, we are satisfied that this is not a case where we should go into the legal question noted by us in the beginning of our . We are satisfied that interest of justice shall be subserved if it is directed that failure to deposit the amount as directed by the District Judge, Kanpur Nagar in its dated 12-5-2011 would not result in dismissal of the arbitration petition filed by the petitioner under Section 34 of the 1996 Act challenging the award dated 22-12-2008. The said arbitration petition may remain pending with the District Judge until the finalisation of scheme by BIFR under Section 18 of the 1985 Act. We accordingly. 10. The special leave petition is disposed of as above. Respondent 3 is granted liberty to apply to BIFR to hear it before finalisation of the scheme. We observe that if such an application is made, BIFR shall hear Respondent 3 before finalisation of the scheme or any other that may be passed by BIFR terminating the proceedings under 1985 Act.” (Emphasis supplied) 136. We would also like to advert to the principle of harmonious construction to understand the interplay between the 1985 Act and the 1993 Act. Simply put, the doctrine of harmonious construction is based on the 396 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports principle that the legislature would not lightly take away from one hand what it had given with the other. Thus, this doctrine provides, that as far as possible, two seemingly conflicting provisions within a statute, or the seemingly conflicting provisions of one statute vis a vis another, should be construed in a manner so as to iron out any conflict. 137. Section 10 of the 1993 Act provides for an overriding effect to the provisions of the said Act to the extent of inconsistency with any other statute. Similarly, Section 32 of the 1985 Act provides overriding effect to the provisions of the said Act except for the enactments specified therein. Dealing with a case involving the apparent conflict between the two statutes containing overriding provisions, this Court in Sarwan Singh v. Shri Kasturi Lal reported in (1977) 1 SCC 750 held as follows: “When two or more laws operate in the same field and each contains a non obstante clause stating that its provisions will override those of any other law, stimulating and incisive problems of interpretation arise. Since statutory interpretation has no conventional protocol, cases of such conflict have to be decided in reference to the object and purpose of the laws under consideration.” (Emphasis supplied) 138. Similarly, in Jay Engineering (supra), it was observed by this Court thus: “31. The endeavour of the court would, however, always be to adopt a rule of harmonious construction.” 139. We would also like to refer to a recent decision of the Madras High Court in Metafilms India Ltd. v. Assistant Commissioner (CT) (Addl. ), Amaindakarai Assessment Circle, Chennai and Others reported in (2022) 96 GSTR 272. Although the said decision was rendered in the peculiar facts of the case therein, yet the reasoning behind the same appears to have been similar to the one that we have employed.