Any false declaration will result in cancellation of the allotment, and initiation of civil and criminal proceedings. 4. While the Cooperative Societies, their members, and the State of Telangana6 have preferred appeals contesting these directions, Mr. Keshav Rao Jadhav, the petitioner in Writ Petition No. 23682/2008, has filed a cross-appeal. Mr. Keshav Rao Jadhav prays that preferential allotment of land – particularly at basic rates – to MLAs, MPs, journalists, officers of the AIS and Judges, is illegal, arbitrary and unconstitutional, as it violates the right to equality guaranteed under Article 14 of the Constitution of India. Facts oF the case 5. On 28.02.2005, the Government of Andhra Pradesh issued three GoMs – Nos. 242, 243 and 244. GoM No. 242 established a comprehensive policy for managing land resources and housing in urban and semi-urban areas. GoM No. 243 outlined categories of individuals eligible for land allotment, while GoM No. 244 provided guidelines for this process. 3 For short, “MLA”. 4 For short, “AIS”. 5 We note that while the Judges of the Supreme Court and High Court have withdrawn their claims and are not seeking allotment, we have addressed their category for the purpose of tackling the legal issue arising out of allotment made under GoM No. 243. 6 Refer to the dated 30.03.2016 passed by this Court, giving directions for amendment in the Cause Title. 1374 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 6. GoM No. 242 emphasized the urgent need for prudent management of land resources in urban and semi-urban areas due to rising urbanization and increasing demand for housing. Due to growing urbanisation, demand for land for housing purposes has surged. It highlighted the challenges faced by the working middle class, as private developers often artificially inflate land prices, making it difficult for them to secure plots. Recognizing that providing shelter is a top priority for the State, the Government had previously formulated a housing scheme for the poor. However, there was no fixed policy catering to “other deserving sections” of the society. Consequently, the Government decided that a comprehensive policy was necessary, leading to the issuance of GoM No. 242. Key stipulations of the GoM include: • Creation of a land bank, source-pooled for allotment to various housing Cooperative Societies and other target groups. • The source of the land bank would consist of land located in and around 120 municipalities with clear titles. • The land would be within a radius of 25 kilometres for Category “A” municipalities, 15 kilometres for Category “B” municipalities and 10 kilometres for Category “C” municipalities. • Government land available with various departments which was not being used for specified categories such as Horticulture, Agriculture, Roads and Buildings amongst other categories, was also to be subsumed and put in the land bank. • Surplus ceiling land, endowment lands and private lands that had been acquired were to also form a part of the land pool. • Revenue department was responsible for collecting details of large chunks of available land which would fall in the said categories.