No claim of any vested rights can be accepted. 6.2 The claim that Gopalakrishnan is the sole legal heir of Saroja, cannot be accepted as after her death in the year 1951, he has remarried and relocated to Pondicherry. 6.3 Even if the First Settlement Deed is accepted as genuine, then Pavanuammal alone would be the heir to such properties. 6.4 Munasamy had, during his lifetime, on 7th October, 1976 executed a settlement deed in favour of Pavanuammal without any coercion. The patta of the said property was also transferred in her name. 6.5 Since Munasamy and Pavanuammal did not have any children, they adopted a child namely Vasantha. Pavanuammal of her own volition executed a settlement deed in favour of Vasantha on 19th July, 1993. Any denial of the same cannot be accepted. [2024] 2 S.C.R. 333 Vasantha (Dead) Thr. Lr. v. Rajalakshmi @ Rajam (Dead) Thr.Lrs. 6.6 On 18th August 1952, Thayammal had vide the Third Settlement Deed given exclusively, the suit properties to her two sons who have made separate and individual deeds in regards to their shares and sold portions thereof to other parties. The suit suffers from non-joinder of necessary parties. C. FINDINGS 7. The Learned Additional District Munsif framed four following issues to be considered: a) Whether the settlement deed suggested by the plaintiff is genuine? b) Whether the plaintiff cannot claim any right in the suit property? c) Whether the plaintiff is entitled to get the relief prayed in the plaint? d) What are the relief for which plaintiff is entitled to? 7.1 Placing reliance upon the deposition of PW1 (Gopalakrishnan), the first issue was decided in favour of the plaintiff and the First Settlement Deed was upheld as genuine. Also, DW1 (Vasantha) in her deposition had not completely denied the execution and genuineness of First Settlement Deed. After considering both, the First and the Second Settlement Deeds, it held that Raghavulu Naidu and Munusamy Naidu must have executed the Second Settlement Deed in favour of Thayammal as the Second Settlement Deed could not be executed without the first deed having been in existence. 7.2 In regard to the second issue, it was observed that plaintiff himself has admitted the execution of Second Settlement Deed and that possession was handed over to Thayammal. Plaintiff has not taken any action in respect of the document executed in the year 1974 and filed the suit in the year 1993 and held that the suit is barred by Limitation and the rights of the plaintiff were abated. 7.3 The third and fourth issues were decided against the plaintiff since he cannot claim any rights in the suit property, therefore, the declaration cannot be made in respect of one-half of the defendant’s share in the suit property after her lifetime would come to the plaintiff. 334 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports PROCEEDING BEFORE THE FIRST APPELLATE COURT 8. Two following questions were considered by the First Appellate Court: a) Whether the plaintiff is the legal heir of Saroja Ammal?