8. Reliance was placed on Bye-laws 21 of Rules and Bye-laws of ICAR, which classified scientific and technical categories. The same is extracted below: “(A) SCIENTIFIC: Scientific personnel shall be those who are engaged in agricultural research and education (including extension educational whether in physical, statistical, biological, engineering, technological or social sciences. This category shall also include persons engaged in planning, programming and management of scientific research. (B) TECHNICAL: Technical Personnel shall be those, who perform technical service in support of research and education whether in the Laboratory, Workshop or Field, or in areas like Library, Documentation, Publication and Agricultural Communication.” 9. At the time of argument, it was not denied by the respondents that they are governed by different set of rules, have their own channel of promotion, and different qualifications prescribed for recruitment. The duties assigned to them are also different as compared to the scientists, who are engaged in core work of agricultural research and education whereas the respondents being technical personnel provide support in different areas. It is further the stand of the appellants that the scientists belonging to Agricultural Research 514 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Service are getting UGC pay scales with effect from 01.01.1986. The benefit of two advance increments for acquiring Ph.D. qualification was part of their pay package. Similar benefit was not extended to the technical personnel. For technical personnel, the appellants had adopted the revised scales as recommended by the Government of India for Central Government employees. 10. Merely because Study Leave Regulations, 1991 were extended to technical personnel, this would not entitle them to other benefits which are available to the scientists. The idea of grant of study leave for pursuing Ph.D. to the technical personnel was only to enable them to improve their qualifications. 10.1 Merely after having Ph.D. qualification, the technical personnel will not become eligible for grant of two advance increments when the same has not been recommended for them. In any institution incentives may be given to a particular category of employees to get higher qualifications during service, considering their job requirements. Merely because different set of employees, who may be working in aid but governed by different set of rules and having different duties to discharge also obtain that qualification, will not entitle them to the benefits which were extended to different set of employees by the competent authority. In the said sequel of facts, Article 14 of the Constitution of India will not have any application. 10.2 The Tribunal and High Court have erred by equating technical personnel and scientists and granting respondents advance increments to which they are not entitled to. The argument raised by the respondents that after obtaining the Ph.D. qualification, the Technical Staff are entitled to be considered for lateral entry into the scientists is also to be noticed and rejected as the additional qualification merely makes them eligible for the higher post in the different cadre and not to grant them benefits, which are attached to the higher post in a different cadre.