A perusal of Chapter IV of the Act brings to the fore the scheme thereunder. For the present, we are unbothered by Section 39 of the Act. Section 36 of the Act states that any land required, reserved or designated in a regional plan, master plan, detailed development plan or a new town development plan shall be deemed to be land needed for a ‘public purpose’ and can be acquired under the land acquisition laws as modified under the Act. Section 37(1) of the Act permits the appropriate planning authority to enter into an agreement with a person to acquire such land by way of purchase, or to apply to the Government for acquisition of such land under the land acquisition laws in force. Section 38 of the Act mandates that if, within three years from the date of publication in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette under Sections 26 or 27 of the Act, (a) no declaration under Section 37(2) is published, or (b) the land in question is not acquired by agreement, such land would be deemed released from reservation/ allotment/designation. At this juncture, we may also examine the meaning and scope of the term ‘public purpose’ employed in the Act. The relevant definitional clause reads as under: ‘2. Definitions.—In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,— … (36) “public purpose” means any purpose which is useful to the public or any class or section of the public;’ 1684 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 22. The position under the Act is that law permits a planning authority to come out with a Layout Plan or a Master Plan for an area in which certain area may be reserved for public purposes. Given how our cities are fast expanding, the salutary purpose and objective behind Section 36 of the Act is obvious. Read with Section 2(36), ‘public purpose’ has been given a very wide connotation and could even include keeping the identified land as open spaces to act as lungs for the city in view of environmental considerations. However, the caveat is that though the planning authority can include private land, the way ahead to acquire the land, either by way of resort to land acquisition laws as modified by the Act or by way of agreement with the person(s) concerned [Section 37], but in accordance with the procedure as laid out in Chapter IV of the Act. In the case at hand, although the Layout (originally 1978 and revised in 1981) shows that it has been earmarked for a public purpose. However, admittedly, nothing happened thereafter in terms of Section 37 of the Act, namely, neither was the land acquired under land acquisition laws nor any agreement was made with the person(s)/owners. Neither the State Government nor Respondent no.3 acted to takeover or gain ownership of the suit property. Clearly, no steps were taken either by the planning authority or the State Government to acquire the land which as per the Act was required to be done within 3 years from publication.