(2022) SCC Online SC 2310; Pinak Pani Mohanty v. Union of India & Ors. [2023] 3 SCR 778 – referred to. List of Acts Constitution of India. List of Keywords High-Powered Sale Committee; Article 142; Civil Court; Article 32; Sale of assets. Case Arising From CRIMINAL ORIGINAL JURISDICTION: Writ Petition (Criminal) No. 546 of 2023 (Under Article 32 of The Constitution of India) 732 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Appearances for Parties Vinay Kumar Garg, Sr. Adv., Rajendra Singhvi, K.S. Rekhi, Parv Garg, Pawas Kulshrestha, Shrikant Mishra, Ms. Arundhati Chakraborty, T. R. B. Sivakumar, Advs. for the Petitioners. Avdhesh Kumar Singh, Ms. Ankita Choudhary, Deepak Thukral, A.A.Gs., C.U. Singh, Sr. Adv., Abhishek Baid, Mohit Kumar Bafna, Anup Jain, Ashok Kumar Jain (for M/S. Expletus Legal), Prashant Singh, Mrs. Prerna Dhall, Piyush Yadav, Anand Dilip Landge, Siddharth Dharmadhikari, Aaditya Aniruddha Pande, Bharat Bagla, Sourav Singh, Aditya Krishna, Ms. Preet S. Phanse, Adarsh Dubey, Sunny Choudhary, Ms. Samridhi S. Jain, Ms. Pragati Neekhra, Aditya Bhanu Neekhra, Aniket Patel, Ms. Ruchira Goel, Gautam Sharma, Dr. Monika Gusain, Advs. for the Respondents. / of the Supreme Court Surya Kant, J. 1. Petitioner Nos. 1 and 2 are husband and wife, whereas Petitioner No. 3 is their son. They have invoked the jurisdiction of this Court under Article 32 of the Constitution, seeking the following directions: - “(a) To issue appropriate writ in the nature of mandamus or any direction or directing the Respondent No. 1 to liquidate the attached assets within a period of 6 months and/or, in the alternative, allow the Petitioners to assist Respondent No. 1 in liquidating the attached assets; (b) Direct Respondent No.1 to distribute the amount lying within it to genuine investors as early as possible; (c) Direct Respondent No. 1 to allow the Petitioners to assist them in identifying genuine investors and also the amount deposited by them; and (d) Pass other and further (s) as this Hon’ble Court may deem fit in the facts and circumstances of the case.” 2. The above-stated reliefs have been sought in light of the following set of events predicated in this factual background: - [2024] 7 S.C.R. 733 Balasaheb Keshawrao Bhapkar & Ors. v. Securities and Exchange Board of India & Ors. (a) Petitioner Nos. 1 and 2 are the founder-Directors of one Sai Prasad Properties Ltd, incorporated under the provisions of the Companies Act, 1956. Petitioner No. 3 also joined the aforesaid company as a Director in 2008, allegedly when he was still studying in college, and is claimed to have thereafter resigned in the year 2014. The Petitioners also floated various other companies, known as the Sai Group of Companies, consisting of: (i) M/s Sai Prasad Properties Ltd. (hereinafter, “SPPL”); (ii) M/s Sai Prasad Foods Ltd. (hereinafter, “SPFL”); (iii) M/s Sai Prasad Corporation Ltd. (hereinafter, “SPCL”); (b) The Security and Exchange Board of India (hereinafter, “SEBI”) received a complaint dated 02.06.2010 alleging illegal mobilisation of funds by SPFL. After processing the said complaint and in furtherance of the s passed by the High Court of Madhya Pradesh and the Department of Financial Services, Ministry of Finance, the Whole Time Member of SEBI (hereinafter, “WTM”) issued an interim -cum-show cause notice dated 17.07.2013, inter alia, directing SPFL and its Directors to refrain from collecting any more money from investors, under the existing schemes or any new schemes.