696. 14 “13. (1) The six aldermen referred to in sub-section (7) of section-3 shall be elected at a meeting of the councillors immediately after the publication of the results of the general election of councillors under section 14. or (2) No person shall be entitled to stand as a candidate at any election of an alderman if at any election of a councillor immediately preceding the election of any alderman he stood as a candidate and failed to be elected as a councillor. (3) In the case of an equality of votes at any election of an alderman the person presiding at the meeting whether or not entitled to vote in the first instance shall have and exercise a casting vote. (4) As many persons as there are vacancies to be filled being persons who have the largest number of votes shall be declared by the person presiding at the meeting to be elected. (5) As soon as may be after the occurrence of any casual vacancy in the office of an alderman election shall be held to fill such casual vacancy.” 15 “11.6.5. The Act makes provision for the election of six Aldermen by the elected members of the 214 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 10. Following acceptance of Balakrishnan Committee Report on decentralization, through the Constitution (Sixty-Ninth Amendment) Act, 1991, Articles 239AA and 239AB were introduced in Part VII of the Constitution. This led to the constitution of a Legislative Assembly for the NCTD under Article 239AA with certain special features including redesignation of the Administrator as Lt. Governor. 11. The provision relevant for the purpose of this case is sub-Article (4) of Article 239AA, as per which the Council of Ministers are to aid and advice the Lt. Governor in relation to matters where the Legislative Assembly has the power to make laws. The same sub-Article also provides an exception to this rule, that is where the Lt. Governor is, by or under any law, required to act in his discretion. Article 239AA, being crucial for our determination, is reproduced hereinbelow for ready reference: “Article 239AA. Special provisions with respect to Delhi-: (1) As from the date of commencement of the Constitution (Sixty-ninth Amendment) Act, 1991, the Union territory of Delhi shall be called the National Capital Territory of Delhi (hereafter in this Part referred to as the National Capital Territory) and the administrator thereof appointed under article 239 shall be designated as the Lieutenant Governor.” (2) (a) There shall be a Legislative Assembly for the National Capital Territory and the seats in such Assembly Corporation. The only qualification for an Alderman prescribed by the Act is that every such person should be qualified to be elected as a Councillor and should, not already be a Councillor. This means that the Aldermen are no different from Councillors, except for their mode of election. There is obviously no apparent purpose in providing for the institution of Aldermen if they are also to belong to the same category of persons as the Councillors.