However, neither of parties wished to argue. The appeals were thus decided on the old arguments, though it was clear to the Court that the amendment of Article 31-A, which had a far-reaching effect, must have affected one or other of the parties. The Constitution Bench upheld the of the High Court which had held that the transfer of shamilat deh owned by the proprietors to the village Panchayat for the purposes of management and the conferral of proprietary rights on non-proprietors in respect of lands in abadi deh was not ultra vires Article 31 inasmuch as, no compensation was payable. 25. It must be noted that the of the High Court was rendered by interpreting Article 31-A as it existed prior to the Constitution (Seventeenth Amendment) Act, 1964. This Court though called upon the parties to address the Court on the effect of the Constitution (Seventeenth Amendment) Act, 1964, no arguments were advanced. As such, in Ranjit Singh, this Court did not have the occasion to consider the effect of the Constitution (Seventeenth Amendment) Act, 1964 by which the second proviso was added to Article 31-A of the Constitution of India. In that view of the matter, the [2024] 6 S.C.R. 911 Karnail Singh v. State of Haryana & Ors. of the Constitution Bench of this Court in Ranjit Singh will not have a bearing on the present matter. 26. In the case of Ajit Singh (supra), again the challenge was to the scheme made under the provisions of the Consolidation Act. One of the grounds raised before the High Court as well as this Court was that the compensation must be paid to the appellant for the land reserved in the scheme for various purposes in accordance with the second proviso to Article 31-A(1) inserted by the Constitution (Seventeenth Amendment) Act, 1964. 27. It will be relevant to refer to the following paragraphs in Ajit Singh: “6. Coming now to the third point raised by Mr Iyenger, we may first mention that it was held by this Court in Ranjit Singh v. State of Punjab [(1965) 1 SCR 82] that the Act was protected from challenge by Article 31-A. It is necessary to set out the relevant constitutional provisions. The relevant portion of Article 31-A reads as under: “31-A. (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in Article 13, no law providing for— (a) the acquisition by the State of any estate or of any rights therein or the extinguishment or modification of any such rights………. shall be deemed to be void on the ground that it is inconsistent with, or takes away or abridges any of the rights conferred by Article 14, Article 19 or Article 31: Provided that * * * Provided further that where any law makes any provision for the acquisition by the State of any estate and where any land comprised therein is held by a person under his personal cultivation, it shall not be lawful for the State to acquire any portion of such land as is within the ceiling limit applicable to him under any law for the time being in force or any building or structure standing thereon or appurtenant thereto, unless the law relating to the acquisition of such land, 912 [2024] 6 S.C.R.