It is clear that the issue as to whether the 2003 Policy only grants exemption from the Market fees as levied under the 1961 Act and does not grant exemption from the Rural Development fees under the 1987 Act, has not been adjudicated by the High Court on merits. The said adjudication could not happen as the Counsel for the State had stated before the High Court that Market fee will also cover Rural Development fee and the High Court dismissed the petition as not pressed. This is pertinently where the trail of errors began. However, it did not come to an end over there. Even in the modification application preferred by the State, the High Court failed to delve into the merits of the matter and rather instantly went on to rely on the letters dated 09.10.2001, 28.08.2001 and 10.09.2001 referred by the Respondent, thereby dismissing the application for modification. The High Court, only recorded the submissions of the State counsel and thereafter referring to the three notes/letters of 2001 of the Agriculture Department and dismissed the application. Neither the arguments were discussed and analysed nor the contents of three notes/letters were discussed. Scope of exemption under the 2003 Policy 20. Appellant State had argued that the Market fees and Rural Development fees are collected under two different statutes which have two different objects and the said Acts have different purposes for utilization of the fees collected under the respective Acts. Whereas, the Respondent does not deny the fact that the fees are distinct under two separate statutes, yet they emphatically argued that both the Acts have intersecting statutory provisions and an overlap in the purpose and object of the two statutes shows a clear convergence of interests of both the Acts and therefore, the term “Market fees” in the 2003 Policy exempts recovery of the fees under both the 1961 Act and 1987 Act. 21. We note that the Appellant has correctly pointed out that the two Acts have different objects. The preamble of 1961 Act clearly stipulates that it is a statute to provide for law relating to better regulation of purchase, sale, storage and processing of agricultural produce and for establishment of markets in the State. Whereas, the 1987 Act, on the other hand, is enacted for providing relief for the loss of agricultural produce, accelerating rural development, improve facilities for purchasers of agricultural produce and augment agricultural 754 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports production. Rural Development Fund is admittedly collected by the Market Committees, but forms part of the Rural Development Fund constituted under Section 6 of 1987 Act. 22. It is not uncommon for different statutes, concerning similar area of law, to have convergence of interests to some degree. However, this would not imply that benefits extended to one statute will be presumed to flow to the other statute as well. 23. The 2003 Policy does not specifically exempt Rural Development fees and therefore, such an argument by the Respondent is highly presumptive, far-fetched and a clear attempt at over-reaching the scope of the 2003 Policy.