The Appellants herein seek to rely on Paragraph 309 of the decision in J. Jayalalitha (supra) in support of the same. Paragraph 309 is set-out hereunder: “309. In contradistinction, the High Court quantified the amount of gifts to be Rs 1.5 crores principally referring to the income tax returns and the s of the authorities passed thereon. It did notice that there had been a delay in the submission of the income tax returns but accepted the plea of the defence acting on the s of the Income Tax Authorities. It seems to have been convinced as well by the contention that there was a practice of offering gifts to political leaders on their birthdays in the State. Not only is the ultimate conclusion of the High Court, dehors any independent assessment of the evidence to overturn the categorical finding of the trial court to the contrary, no convincing or persuasive reason is also forthcoming. This assumes significance also in view of the state of law that the findings of the Income Tax Authorities/forums are not binding on a criminal court to readily accept the legality or lawfulness of the source of income as mentioned in the income tax returns by an assessee without any semblance of inquisition into the inherent merit of the materials on record relatable thereto. Not only this aspect was totally missed by the High Court, no attempt seems to have been made by it to appraise the evidence adduced by [2024] 3 S.C.R. 699 Puneet Sabharwal v. CBI the parties in this regard, to come to a self-contained and consummate determination.” 31. These submissions do not appeal to us for the following reasons: (i) First of all, the inquisition mentioned in Paragraph 309 of the said decision, is the inquisition to be made by the criminal court. That is clear from a complete reading of the above-said paragraph. In that case, the High Court, while acquitting the accused, had merely gone by the income tax records which were produced by the accused persons. However, the Trial Court had independently examined the issue and had not mechanically gone by the income tax records. It was while commenting on this that this Court said an inquisition ought to have been made on the material. (ii) Secondly, this Court in J. Jayalalitha (supra), before arriving at a conclusion regarding the probative value of the income tax returns, has examined in detail the previous decisions of this Court where there were not only assessment s but also decisions of the Appellate Tribunal and the High Court. It is only after considering this aspect that the Court laid down that the Income Tax Returns and s passed in IT Proceedings are not conclusive proof. (iii) Thirdly, this Court has categorically held that while income tax returns/s may be admissible as evidence, the probative value of the same would depend on the nature of the information furnished and findings recorded in the , and would not ipso facto either conclusively prove or disprove a charge.