[2024] 9 S.C.R. 1 : 2024 INSC 651 Ishwar (Since Deceased) Thr. Lrs & Ors. v. Bhim Singh & Anr. Civil Appeal No. 10193 of 2024 03 September 2024 [J.B. Pardiwala and Manoj Misra,* JJ.] Issue for Consideration Issue arose as to whether the execution court had jurisdiction to deal with the application for rescission of contract and extension of time to deposit the balance sale consideration; and if execution court had the jurisdiction, whether those applications ought to have been decided as one in the suit on original side, if yes, then, whether, in the facts of the case, on that ground alone, the impugned warrants interference in exercise of jurisdiction Art 136 of the Constitution. Headnotes† Specific Relief Act, 1963 – s. 28 – Rescission in certain circumstances of contracts for the sale or lease of immovable property, the specific performance of which has been decreed – Application for rescission of contract and extension of time to deposit the balance sale consideration – Jurisdiction of the execution court: Held: Bare reading of s. 28 gives an impression that the power to extend time to deposit, or to rescind the contract on failure of deposit vests in the Court which passed the decree – Expression “may apply in the same suit in which the decree is made” as used in u/s. 28 must be accorded an expansive meaning so as to include the court of first instance even though the decree under execution is passed by the appellate court, because the decree is in the same suit – Thus, an application u/s. 28, either for rescission of contract or for extension of time, can be entertained and decided by the execution court, provided it is the court which passed the decree in terms of s. 37 CPC – On facts, the Court of first instance, (where the civil suit was instituted) and the execution application was filed before the Court of Additional Civil Judge * Author 2 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (Senior Division) – Application u/s 28 was disposed of by the Court of Civil Judge (Senior Division) – Thus, by virtue of s. 37 CPC, the execution court being the Court of first instance with reference to the suit in which the decree was passed had jurisdiction to deal with the application u/s. 28 of the Act – Thus, the objection as regards the jurisdiction of the execution court to deal with the application for extension of time/rescission of the court u/s. 28(1) is rejected. [Paras 15, 18, 19] Specific Relief Act, 1963 – s. 28 – Rescission in certain circumstances of contracts for the sale or lease of immovable property, the specific performance of which has been decreed – Execution court to decide the application u/s. 28 as an application on the original side (as an application in the suit) or on the execution side (as an application in the execution proceedings): Held: Application seeking rescission of contract, or extension of time, u/s. 28 (1), must be decided as an application in the original suit wherein the decree was passed even though the suit has been disposed of – Thus, even if the execution court is the Court of first instance with reference to the suit wherein the decree under execution was passed, it must transfer the application filed u/s.