The contractor appoints those who work on cranes and not ONGC. The responsibility of repair and maintenance, including alternative arrangements, is of the contractor, not ONGC. The contractor is obliged to make arrangements at his own cost for shelter, food, night stay and other requirements of the employees working on the cranes. He pointed out that as per the terms of the agreement, the contractor and ONGC are not responsible for providing secured parking to the cranes in the sense that even if the cranes are parked at the site of ONGC, the same are at the risk of the contractor. More importantly, the contractor is liable for a claim for compensation that may arise due to injury to any third party by reason of the use of the cranes. The contractor is mandated to fully indemnify ONGC against any consequence under law arising from any accident caused by the cranes to the equipment/property/personnel of ONGC. He submitted that in the facts of the case, sub-clauses (c), (d) and (e) of the Panchratna test are not fulfilled. 8. He relied upon a decision of this Court in the case of The State of A.P. & Anr. v. Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Limited.6 By inviting the attention of this Court to the decision in the case of Great Eastern Shipping Company Limited v. State of Karnataka & Ors.7, he submitted that in the facts of the case before this Court, the ‘Tug’ which was the subject matter of the contract was made available to the port twenty-four hours a day throughout the contract period. The contract provided that during the contract period, the tug will be available with the port for all purposes and under control in every respect. He also referred to this Court’s decision in Commissioner of Service Tax, Delhi v. Quick Heal Technologies Limited8. In the said case, this Court observed that the transaction was of software sale, and once it is accepted that the software put in a 6 (2002) 3 SCC 314 7 (2020) 3 SCC 354 8 2022 SCC Online SC 976 496 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports compact disk is goods, there cannot be any service element in the transaction. He submitted that by accepting the contentions raised by him, consequential directions will have to be issued to settle the account of the contractors. Submissions in Civil Appeal No. 383 of 2013 9. The learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant in Civil Appeal No. 383 of 2013 has also made detailed submissions. He relied upon the standard contract executed between the appellants–Indian Oil Corporation Limited (IOCL), and the transporters operating tank trucks to deliver petroleum products at specified rates. He pointed out that the Superintendent of Tax issued notice to the appellants (IOCL) to deduct sales tax while paying hiring charges to the contractors on the footing that by hiring the tank trucks, there is a transfer of the right to use goods and, therefore, the transaction is of sale covered by Clause 29A of Article 366 of the Constitution of India.