For the present certain observations made in regard to sanctions are relevant. They are summarised as follows:- 40.5.1 What is to be considered is whether the material which formed the raison d’être of the allegations was actually placed before the authority. 40.5.2 A reiteration of the contents of the FIR or draft chargesheet does not constitute consideration or application of mind. It has to be something further than that. 40.5.3 The of sanction or recommendation or grant of sanction, both should on their face indicate consideration of all relevant material. 40.5.4 The standard to be applied in ‘judging’ sanction s is not the same as that applied to s of quasi- judicial bodies for it is a purely an administrative function. 40.6 The observations of this Court in State of Bihar v. P.P. Sharma,59 are instructive. Relevant extract is as under: “27. The sanction under Section 197 CrPC is not an empty formality. It is essential that the provisions therein are to be observed with complete strictness. The object of obtaining sanction is that the authority concerned should be able to consider for itself the material before the Investigating Officer, before it comes to the conclusion that the prosecution in the circumstances be sanctioned or forbidden. To comply with the provisions of Section 197 it must 58 [2005] Supp. 2 SCR 79 : (2005) 11 SCC 600 59 1992 Supp (1) SCC 222 370 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports be proved that the sanction was given in respect of the facts constituting the offence charged. It is desirable that the facts should be referred to on the face of the sanction. Section 197 does not require the sanction to be in any particular form. If the facts constituting the offence charged are not shown on the face of the sanction, it is open to the prosecution, if challenged, to prove before the court that those facts were placed before the sanctioning authority. It should be clear from the form of the sanction that the sanctioning authority considered the relevant material placed before it and after a consideration of all the circumstances of the case it sanctioned the prosecution.” (Emphasis supplied) 41. Having given our attention to the position of law as above, let us now turn to the instant facts. Simply put, the objection of the appellant arises from the short amount of time taken in recommending and granting sanction, against him which he claims to be sign of non- application of mind and lack of independent review. We are unable to accept such a contention. There is nothing on record to show that relevant material was not placed before the authorities. There is no question, as there rightly cannot be, on the competence of either of the authorities. Therefore, solely on the ground that the time taken was comparatively short or even that other s were similarly worded cannot call the credibility of the sanction into question. As has been noted in Superintendent of Police (CBI) v. Deepak Chowdhary,60 the authorities are required only to reach a prima facie satisfaction that the relevant facts, as gathered in the investigation would constitute the offence or not.