This Court emphasized that when Constitutional Courts are called upon to interpret provisions 6 Company Appeal (AT) No. 222 of 2018, decided on 25.03.2019 7 [2023] 1 SCR 527 : (2023) 4 SCC 209 [2024] 9 S.C.R. 253 Chalasani Udaya Shankar and others v. M/s. Lexus Technologies Pvt. Ltd. and other affecting exercise of powers and jurisdiction by regulatory bodies, it is the duty of the Court to ensure that transactions falling within the province of the regulators are necessarily subjected to their scrutiny and regulation. It was pointed out that this would ensure that the regulatory body charged with the duty to protect the consumers has real-time control over the sector, thereby realizing the purpose of its constitution. It was, therefore, held that the purpose of these regulations could not be short-circuited by making an application to the Company Court under Section 111-A of the Act of 1956, on the ground that the provision bestowed jurisdiction parallel to the SEBI. It is in this context that this Court, in IFB Agro Industries Limited (supra), examined Sections 155 and 111-A of the Act of 1956 and Section 59 of the Act of 2013. The heavily relied upon and extensively quoted from the earlier in Ammonia Supplies Corporation (P) Ltd. (supra), which we have already referred to hereinabove and also quoted. 31. The in Ammonia Supplies Corporation (P) Ltd. (supra), as noted, states that the provisions relating to rectification give discretion to the Company Court to examine whether, under the garb of rectification, one is laying claim for an adjudication of such contentions and issues which do not fall within the realm of ‘rectification’ and consequently, within the jurisdiction of the Company Court. However, if the Company Court finds that the dispute relates to the field of ‘rectification’ or its peripheral aspects, it will have exclusive jurisdiction to address the claim under Section 155 of the Act of 1965. When the Court is, however, of the opinion that the contentious issues that are raised before it for adjudication do not fall within that sphere and, in consequence, its jurisdiction under that provision, the power of rectification should not be exercised. Thus, if the application for rectification, in effect, includes projected claims which do not come within the purview of rectification and the Company Court feels that the civil court/regulatory body would be the more appropriate forum, jurisdiction under Section 155 of the Act of 1965 would not be exercised. 32. This would mean that the National Company Law Tribunal exercising jurisdiction under Section 59 of the Act of 2013 has to examine the factual issues to ascertain the substance of the issue before it after removing the cloak of the form of the application. The expression ‘rectification’, as already pointed out, connotes something that ought 254 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports to have been done but, by error, was not done, or what ought not to have been done but was done, requiring correction. The phrase ‘sufficient cause’ in Section 59 of the Act of 2013 is to be tested in relation to the statutory mandate thereof, i.e., anything done or omitted to be done in contravention of the Act of 2013 or the Rules framed thereunder.