The testimony of PW2 strengthens the doubt as he deposed that when they reached the police station after the incident with PW18, neither him nor PW4 in-formed the IO that they had directly seen the incident. The stark difference 120 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports between the versions put forth by the PW21 and DW3/DW4 raises serious concerns regarding the fairness of investigation conducted by PW21 and it is a reasonable possibility that the eye witnesses were brought in to create a fool proof case. The evidence of DW3 and DW4, both senior officers who had exercised supervision over the investigation conducted by PW21, indicates that the so-called eye witnesses of the incident were actually accessories after the fact and not accessories to the fact. 24. The second limb of the objection against the testimonies of the eye witnesses is that none of the eye witnesses is an independent witness of fact. Ordinarily, there is no rule of law to discard the testimonies of the witnesses merely because they were known to the victim or belonged to her family. For, an offence may be committed in circumstances that only the family members are present at the place of occurrence in natural course. However, the present case does not fall in such category. In the facts of the present case, the natural presence of the eye witnesses at the place of occurrence is under serious doubt, as discussed above, and for unexplained reasons, the naturally present public persons were not examined as witnesses in the matter. The non-examination of natural witnesses such as Doman Tenti, Daso Mistry, Soordas, Kumud Ranjan Singh and many other neighbours who admittedly came out of their houses to witness the offence, coupled with the fact that the projected eye witnesses failed to explain their presence at the place of occurrence, renders the entire version of the prosecution as improbable and unreliable. The eye witnesses, being family members, were apparently approached by PW18 who in-formed them about the incident and later, their versions were fabricated to make the case credible. Notably, when the version put forth by the interested witnesses comes under a shadow of doubt, the rule of prudence demands that the independent public witnesses must be examined and corroborating material must be gathered. More so, when public witnesses were readily available and the offence has not taken place in the bounds of closed walls. 25. Pertinently, the conduct of the eye witnesses also ap-pears to be unnatural considering that they were all relatives of the deceased. Firstly, PW18 did not try to prevent the ab-duction. Even if it is believed that he was held against a pistol, the statement regarding the existence of pistol comes as an improvement from his first information given to the police, as already noted above. Nonetheless, it is admitted [2024] 10 S.C.R. 121 Vijay Singh @ Vijay Kr. Sharma v. The State of Bihar that PW2, PW4 and PW5 came in a jeep and they saw the accused persons leaving with Neelam after abducting her.