28. Although Pradip Chandra Parija (supra), Hansoli Devi (supra) and Central Board of Dawoodi Bohra Community (supra) are later decisions and were not in existence when the in Anjuman- e-Rahmania (supra) was made by the bench of 2 (two) Judges, it matters little. The principle flowing from Lala Shri Bhagwan (supra) bound the bench of 2 (two) Judges in Anjuman-e-Rahmania (supra). The law laid down, in the decisions post Anjuman-e-Rahmania (supra), is neither expressly nor even impliedly made to operate prospectively. Besides, it seems elementary though it requires to be restated that a bench sitting in a combination of 2 (two) Judges is bound by what is laid down by a Constitution Bench of 5 (five) Judges and should the bench of lesser strength have valid reasons to disagree with the view expressed by the latter bench of 5 (five), the former bench of 2 (two) cannot straightway make a reference for being placed before a Constitution Bench of greater numerical strength. I am left to wonder how the bench of 2 (two) Judges in Anjuman-e-Rahmania (supra) could at all request that the case be placed before a bench of at least 7 (seven) Judges. Without a doubt, what the bench in Anjuman-e-Rahmania (supra) did was not only plainly impermissible in law but the referral answers the test for holding a per incuriam. If “doubting the correctness of the opinion in Azeez Basha (supra), without disagreeing with it” could permit the bench in Anjuman-e-Rahmania (supra) to request the Chief Justice of India to place the matter for being heard by a bench of 7 (seven) Judges and such a course of action were held to be permissible and within the limits of Central Board of Dawoodi [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1871 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. Bohra Community (supra), as proposed in the majority opinion (paragraph 39 of the revised draft) - I am afraid, tomorrow, a bench of 2 (two) Judges, referring to opinions of jurists [as in Anjuman- e-Rahmania (supra)] could well doubt the ‘basic structure’ doctrine and request the Chief Justice of India to constitute a bench of 15 (fifteen) Judges. The reasoning in the majority opinion, with due respect, appears to be based on an incomplete reading of paragraph 12(2) of Central Board of Dawoodi Bohra Community (supra), extracted supra. Though the second sentence of the said paragraph is a bit ambiguous, but the same- read harmoniously with the other sentences - would lead to the inevitable conclusion that even in case of a doubt being expressed by a bench of 2 (two) Judges in respect of the ratio laid down by a bench of 5 (five) Judges, the case on a reference being made (with sufficient reasons) ought to be first placed before a bench of 3 (three) Judges, and not to a bench of either 5 (five) or 7 (seven) Judges. If, indeed, the proposed view in the majority opinion were accepted, all the precedents referred to above would stand overruled and a legal principle, which hitherto no bench of this Court did, would be laid down and, in the process, the floodgates for unmeritorious references opened.