The appellant observed that 866 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the report of DCP, South, was silent about the observation made in the earlier that there was something fishy in the investigation. Therefore, the appellant observed that the dated 21st January 2023 has not been taken into consideration by the DCP, South. Hence, the appellant directed the Commissioner of Police, Delhi, to conduct a vigilance inquiry against the IO and SHO of Defence Colony Police Station. However, the appellant dropped the show cause notice issued to IO and SHO under the dated 21st January 2023 for showing cause why they should not be prosecuted under Section 177 of the IPC. 5. The IO and SHO filed a petition under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (for short, ‘the CrPC’) for expunging the remarks made against them in the s dated 21st January 2023 and 31st January 2023. A prayer was also made to set aside the direction issued to the Commissioner of Police, Delhi to hold vigilance inquiry against them. By the first impugned , the learned Single Judge of the High Court directed that all remarks made against the IO and SHO in the s dated 21st January 2023 and 31st January 2023 shall stand expunged. Even the directions issued by the appellant against the Commissioner of Police and the Deputy Commissioner of Police were ed to be deleted. 6. As seen from the grounds taken in the appeals and written submissions dated 30th September 2024, the appellant’s grievance is about remarks recorded against him in paragraphs 13 and 14 of the first impugned . The said remarks are as follows: “13. Not only are such remarks unnecessary but also could have serious implications on the careers of public servants, particularly for what seems in the facts and circumstances as perfunctory issues which have no huge negative impact on the actual administration of the criminal justice process. As discussed above, the Ld. ASJ ought not to have embarked on an inexorable quest when his original concern had been suitably addressed. The remarks and the phraseology used by the Ld. ASJ is summary in nature, penal in its scope, stigmatizing in its tone and tenor and as already motioned, beyond the ken of expected judicial conduct. In these facts and circumstances it is directed that all remarks against [2024] 11 S.C.R. 867 Sonu Agnihotri v. Chandra Shekhar & Ors. the petitioners in s dated 21st January, 2023 and 31st January, 2023 passed by Ld., Additional Sessions judge, South East, Saket Courts, New Delhi in Bail Appl. No. 202/2023 shall be expunged and all directions for conducting enquiries and explanations by the DCP or the Commissioner of Police shall be recalled and stand deleted from the said s. 14…….............................…………………………………… ……… It is expected therefore that the Ld. ASJ would be circumspect and exercise care and caution in future before embarking on these judicial misadventures.” 7. We must note here that the appellant applied for impleading the High Court of Delhi as a party through its Registrar General.