(2) A person, who commits the offence relating to support given to a terrorist organisation under sub- section (1) shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term not exceeding ten years, or with fine, or with both. 9 40. Offence of raising fund for a terrorist organisation.— [2024] 4 S.C.R. 303 Shoma Kanti Sen v. The State of Maharashtra & Anr. any fund-raising activities for the CPI (Maoist) or her support to the said organisation has not transpired through any reliable evidence before us at this stage. 36. In the light of our observations made in this and on our perusal of the evidences collected against her as also the allegations made by prosecution witnesses, we are of the opinion that there is no reasonable ground for believing that the accusations against the appellants for commission of the offences incorporated in Chapter IV and VI of the 1967 Act are prima facie true. 37. In the case of K.A. Najeeb -vs- Union of India [(2021) 3 SCC 713], a three Judge Bench of this Court (of which one of us Aniruddha Bose, J was a party), has held that a Constitutional Court is not strictly bound by the prohibitory provisions of grant of bail in the 1967 Act and can exercise its constitutional jurisdiction to release an accused on bail who has been incarcerated for a long period of time, relying on Article 21 of Constitution of India. This decision was sought to be distinguished by Mr. Nataraj on facts relying on of this Court in the case of Gurwinder Singh -vs- State of Punjab [2024 INSC 92]. In this , it has been held:- “32. The Appellant’s counsel has relied upon the case of KA Najeeb (supra) to back its contention that the appellant has been in jail for last five years which is contrary to law laid down in the said case. While this argument may appear compelling at first glance, it lacks depth and 22 substance. In KA Najeeb’s case this court was confronted with a circumstance wherein except the respondent- (1) A person commits the offence of raising fund for a terrorist organisation, who, with intention to further the activity of a terrorist organisation,— (a) invites another person to provide money or other property, and intends that it should be used, or has reasonable cause to suspect that it might be used, for the purposes of terrorism; or (b) receives money or other property, and intends that it should be used, or has reasonable cause to suspect that it might be used, for the purposes of terrorism; or (c) provides money or other property, and knows, or has reasonable cause to suspect, that it would or might be used for the purposes of terrorism. Explanation.—For the purposes of this sub-section, a reference to provide money or other property includes— (a) of its being given, lent or otherwise made available, whether or not for consideration; or (b) raising, collecting or providing funds through production or smuggling or circulation of high quality counterfeit Indian currency.