It applies to a person:- (i) who was born in India as defined in the Government of India Act, 1935 (for short, ‘the 1935 Act’) as originally enacted; or (ii) either of whose parents were born in India as defined in the 1935 Act as originally enacted; or (iii) any of whose grandparents were born in India as defined in the 1935 Act as originally enacted. and who is ordinarily residing in any country outside India so defined. Such a person shall be deemed to be a citizen of India if he has been registered as a citizen of India by the diplomatic or consular representative of India in the country where he is for the time being residing, on an application made by him in prescribed form before such diplomatic or consular representative, before or after the commencement of the Constitution. The words “before or after the commencement of this Constitution” qualify the words “the diplomatic or consular representative of India in the country where he is for the time being residing”. Therefore, a person who is qualified in terms of the first part of Article 8 can apply to the diplomatic or consular representative of India in any country where he is residing before or after the commencement of the Constitution. He need not apply to the diplomatic or consular representative of India in the country where he was residing at the commencement of the Constitution. 16. If Article 8 was intended to apply to a foreign national born after the commencement of the Constitution, the provision would not be 746 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports referring to “who is ordinarily residing in any country outside India so defined”. So defined means India as defined in the 1935 Act, as originally enacted. Moreover, Article 8 uses the expression “who is ordinarily residing”. Therefore, the provision will only apply to someone ordinarily residing on the date of commencement of the Constitution in any country outside India as defined in the 1935 Act, as originally enacted. If the interpretation sought to be given on behalf of Pranav to article 8 is accepted, someone born, say in the year 2000, who is ordinarily residing in any country outside India as defined in the 1935 Act, as originally enacted, would be entitled to claim citizenship of India on the ground that any of his parents or grandparents were born in that part of Pakistan or Bangladesh which was part of India as defined in the 1935 Act, as originally enacted. We are giving this illustration to show that the interpretation of Article 8 sought to be made on behalf of Pranav would produce absurd results which the framers of the Constitution never intended. Therefore, Article 8 will have no application to Pranav’s case. 17. Article 10 provides that every citizen deemed to be a citizen of India by virtue of the provisions of Articles 5 to 8 shall continue to be such citizen subject to the provisions of any law made by Parliament.