(a) to prevent such person from committing any further offence; or (b) for proper investigation of the offence; or (c) to prevent such person from causing the evidence of the offence to disappear or tampering with such evidence in any manner; or (d) to prevent such person from making any inducement, threat or promise to any person acquainted with the facts of the case so as to dissuade him from disclosing such facts to the Court or to the police officer; or (e) as unless such person is arrested, his presence in the Court whenever required cannot be ensured, and the police officer shall record while making such arrest, his reasons in writing. Provided that a police officer shall, in all cases where the arrest of a person is not required under the provisions of this sub-section, record the reasons in writing for not making the arrest. (ba) against whom credible information has been received that he has committed a cognizable offence punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to more than seven years whether with or without fine or with death sentence and the police officer has reason to believe on the basis of that information that such person has committed the said offence.” 43. A plain reading of the above provision shows that an arrest can be effected if there is a reasonable complaint, credible information or reasonable suspicion and the police officer has a reason to believe that such offence has been committed by the accused person and the arrest is necessary. It is worth noting that the words ‘complaint’, ‘information’ and ‘suspicion’ are qualified by the adjectives ‘reasonable’, ‘credible’ and ‘reasonable’ respectively. Similarly, the police officer is required to have a ‘reason to believe’ based on the information he has received that the accused person has committed the alleged offence. 1128 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 44. It is settled law that arrest cannot be made merely because it is lawful to do so. The exercise of the power to arrest has been qualified by a twofold requirement – first, of having a reasonable belief that the accused person has committed the offence and secondly, that there is a need to arrest the accused person. This Court in Satender Kumar Antil v. CBI reported in (2022) 10 SCC 51 held that non-observance of the requirements stipulated under Sections 41 and 41A of CrPC respectively before effecting arrest would entitle the accused to be enlarged on bail. The relevant paragraphs are reproduced hereinbelow: “25. The consequence of non-compliance with Section 41 shall certainly inure to the benefit of the person suspected of the offence. Resultantly, while considering the application for enlargement on bail, courts will have to satisfy themselves on the due compliance of this provision. Any non-compliance would entitle the accused to a grant of bail.” 45. In Arnesh Kumar v. State of Bihar and Another reported in (2014) 8 SCC 273, this Court laid emphasis on the phrases “credible information” and “reasonable suspicion” as they appear in Section 41 of CrPC and held as follows: “5.