4. Dissatisfied thereby, the claimant-appellant approached the High Court of Gujarat by way of Regular First Appeal No. 2611/2017. Misc. Civil Application No.3/2018 was filed therein by which the claimant-appellant prayed for permission to file the said First Appeal as an indigent person. 5. The High Court vide and dated 7th August, 2018 dismissed the Misc. Civil Application observing as under : “….3. It is a matter of record that the claimants filed claim petition before the Tribunal and claimed Rs. 10,00,000/-, whereby the Tribunal by partly allowing the claim petition vide the impugned award, awarded a sum of Rs. 2,41,745/- along with 9% interest from the date of claim petition till its realization. 4. In light of the aforesaid, the applicant–appellant cannot be considered to be indigent person and therefore, he has to pay court fees first. 5. Ms. Rana, learned counsel for the applicant, however, submits that, till date, no amount is received by the applicant. It is open for the applicant to pursue the said remedy before appropriate forum. In view of the above, present application is not entertained. Time to deposit Court fees is granted for 8 weeks from today.” (Emphasis supplied) 6. We may refer to this Court’s decision in Mathai M. Paikeday v. C.K. Antony,3 wherein the concept of an indigent person has been discussed at length. Relevant extracts are reproduced as follows:- 3 [2011] 7 SCR 230 : (2011) 13 SCC 174 900 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “16. The concept of indigent person has been discussed in Corpus Juris Secundum (20 CJS Costs § 93) as following: “§ 93. What constitutes indigency.—The right to sue in forma pauperis is restricted to indigent persons. A person may proceed as poor person only after a court is satisfied that he or she is unable to prosecute the suit and pay the costs and expenses. A person is indigent if the payment of fees would deprive one of basic living expenses, or if the person is in a state of impoverishment that substantially and effectively impairs or prevents the pursuit of a court remedy. However, a person need not be destitute. Factors considered when determining if a litigant is indigent are similar to those considered in criminal cases, and include the party’s employment status and income, including income from government sources such as social security and unemployment benefits, the ownership of unencumbered assets, including real or personal property and money on deposit, the party’s total indebtedness, and any financial assistance received from family or close friends. Not only personal liquid assets, but also alternative sources of money should be considered.” 17. The eligibility of person to sue in forma pauperis has been considered in American Jurisprudence (20 Am Jur 2d Costs § 100) as thus: “§ 100. Eligibility to sue in forma pauperis; generally.—The burden of establishing indigency is on the defendant claiming indigent status, who must demonstrate not that he or she is entirely destitute and without funds, but that payments for counsel would place an undue hardship on his or her ability to provide the basic necessities of life for himself or herself and his or her family.