The appellate court must scan through the evidence, both oral and documentary, and reappreciate it. After reappreciating the evidence, the appellate court must record reasons for either accepting the evidence of the prosecution or for disbelieving the evidence of the prosecution. The Court must record reasons for deciding whether the charges against the accused have been proved. In a given case, if the conviction is confirmed, the Court will have to deal with the legality and adequacy of the sentence. In such a case, there must be a finding recorded on the legality and adequacy of the sentence with reasons. The ultimate object of writing a is to ensure that the parties before the Court know why the case is decided in their favour or against them. Therefore, must be in a simple language. The conclusions recorded by the Court in the on legal or factual issues must be supported by cogent reasons. 14. No doubt, the Court can always comment upon the conduct of the parties. However, the findings regarding the conduct of the parties must be confined only to such conduct which has a bearing on the decision-making. A of the Court cannot contain the Judge’s personal opinions on various subjects. Similarly, advisory jurisdiction cannot be exercised by the Court by incorporating advice to the parties or advice in general. The Judge has to decide a case and not preach. The cannot contain irrelevant and unnecessary material. A must be in simple language and should not be verbose. Brevity is the hallmark of quality . We must remember that is neither a thesis nor a piece of literature. However, we find that the impugned contains personal opinion of the Judges advice to the younger generation and advice to the legislature. [2024] 8 S.C.R. 587 In Re: Right To Privacy of Adolescents OBJECTIONABLE PORTIONS OF THE IMPUGNED 15. Ms Madhavi Divan, the learned senior counsel appointed as amicus curiae, has culled out the portions of the impugned which, according to her, are highly objectionable. We are reproducing the same: i. “We feel it prudent to mention here that we noticed a rustic lady with a rumpled saree and unkempt hair, looking more aged than her age standing in a corner of the Court with a baby in her arms.” (Para 2) ii. “[…]Non-exploitative sexual relationship without any intent is in rise among adolescents in our country. We may only say that may be for the reason of climatic change, change in food habits etc. girls are attaining puberty now-a-days in a younger age and sexuality develop in them very early may be owing to peer pressure, influence by social media, free availability of porn materials and free mixing with friends of opposite sex in a taboo free atmosphere. This being, however, sociological study by experts, we do not want to comment on these aspects. To top it all we do not want to go to the pathology of the offence(s) statutorily outlined in the POCSO Act.” (Para 13) iii.