He further submitted that the High Court has committed grave error in trivializing the serious allegations made against the respondents by holding that except the witnesses having stated about respondents organizing weapon training for using knives and swords and to train members to throw beer bottles filled with water on targets, there is no material to suggest commission of any offence which falls under Section 15 of UAPA, whereas all these alleged acts were part of the preparation of committing terrorist acts, particularly when the respondents were imparting training as to how to hurl bombs by using water filled beer bottles and how to use weapons like knives and swords to strike terror in the mind of people. Mr. Nair has also placed heavy reliance on the latest decision of this Court in case of Gurwinder Singh vs. State of Punjab and Another1 which has relied upon the earlier decision in National 1 [2024] 2 SCR 134 : (2024) SCC OnLine SC 109 [2024] 5 S.C.R. 1017 Union of India Rep. by The Inspector of Police National Investigation Agency Chennai Branch v. Barakathullah etc. Investigation Agency vs. Zahoor Ahmad Shah Watali 2 to submit that the special provision of Section 43(D) of UAPA applies right from the stage of registration of FIR for the offences under Chapter IV and VI of the UAPA until the conclusion of the trial thereof, and that the court is merely expected to record a finding on the basis of broad probabilities regarding the involvement of the accused in the commission of the stated offences or otherwise. Terming the impugned as perverse, he submitted that the High Court had failed to appreciate that the oral statements of the witnesses and the recoveries made during the course of investigation clearly made out a prima facie case against the respondents regarding their involvement of the alleged offences. 7. The learned Senior Counsels, Mrs. Rebecca John appearing for respondent nos. 2, 3 and 4 (accused no. 1, 3 and 4), Mr. Devansh A. Mohta appearing for respondent No.1 (accused No.7), Mrs. Mukta Gupta appearing for respondent no. 5, 7 and 8 (accused No. 5, 8, 9) and Mr. S. Balakrishnan appearing for R-6 (accused no.6) had emphatically submitted that the reliance of the appellant on the statements made by the protected/listed witnesses was highly improper as the said witnesses themselves had participated in the alleged commission of offences. According to them, the vague allegations made by the said witnesses, could not be relied upon, more particularly when there was no material brought on record to show any preparatory work done by the respondents to prima facie make out the case against the respondents. They also relied upon the observations made by the High Court in the impugned to submit that the High Court had in detail considered the evidence collected by the appellant during the course of the investigation and having not found substance in the same has released the respondents on bail which should not be interfered with.