When dealing with a quashing petition, there lies a duty on the High Court to properly apply its mind to all the material on record. The least which is expected of High Court in such situation is to carefully go through the allegations contained in the FIR and the charge-sheet, and to ascertain (i) whether, the offences alleged therein could be said to have been prima facie established from the material on record? or (ii) whether, apart from the offences alleged in the FIR or the charge-sheet, there is possibility of any other offence prima facie being made out? The High Court in exercise of its inherent powers, may be justified in quashing the criminal proceedings only where, neither any offence as alleged in the FIR or charge-sheet is disclosed nor any other offence is prima facie made out, and the continuance of the proceedings may be found to amount to abuse of process of law. 203. In the case at hand, there is no dispute by either side that, the two videos infact depicted children in a sexual activity. It is also not the case of the respondent no. 1 that the said videos were not recovered from his mobile phone. In such circumstances, the child pornographic material that was recovered from the personal mobile phone of the accused which was regularly in use by him, prima facie establishes the storage or possession of child pornographic material at his hand. Further, since the aforesaid child pornographic material was found to have been stored in the said personal mobile phone since 2016 and 2019, prima facie it could be said there was a failure on the part of the respondent no.1 to delete, destroy or report such material. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 277 Just Rights for Children Alliance & Anr. v. S. Harish & Ors. 204. It was also sought to be contended on behalf of the respondent no. 1 that the 2019 Amendment Act whereby and whereunder, the three distinct offences pertaining to the storage or possession of child pornography were made punishable under Section 15 of the POCSO came into force with effect from 16.09.2019. Whereas the both the videos in question had been allegedly stored in the device before the 2019 Amendment Act came into force. Since, the present Section 15(1) of the POCSO was not in operation at the relevant time when the videos were allegedly stored, the respondent no. 1 cannot be punished under the said provision which did not exist at the time of storage of such video. 205. However, we are not impressed with the aforesaid submission. What is sought to be punished under Section 15 is not the time when such material was stored or came to be possessed but rather the storage or possession itself, which may be continuous, wherein the relevant point of time of such storage or possession for constituting any offence under the POCSO more particularly Section 15 would be reckoned from the date of registration of the FIR.