It is of critical importance that the Indian regulatory system develops the ability to assess how any GM product is likely to impact different sections of society. 10.7 Dr. R.S. Paroda submitted a separate dissenting report. A brief discussion of the Report may be adverted to. (i) Firstly, as for the nature of sequencing of risk assessment studies that need to be done for GM crops before they are released into the environment, Dr. Paroda, in his dissenting report recommended the following: a. The sequencing of studies provided in the “Guidance for Information/Data Generation and Documentation for Safety Assessment of Regulated, Genetically Engineered (GE) Plants”, which is in draft stage, should henceforth be adopted quickly by the RCGM and GEAC. b. The sequencing of studies presented in “Guidance for Information Generation and Documentation for Safety Assessment of Regulated, Genetically Engineered (GE) Plants” should, in future, be reviewed at regular intervals of no less than three years to ensure that these guidelines remain consistent with internationally accepted best practices and standards. c. Guidelines for the conduct of confined field trials and for GM food safety assessment that 1988 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports meet the international norms have currently been adopted by RCGM and GEAC. However, it was noted that the present approach for the environmental risk assessment (ERA) in the guidelines for research in transgenic plants was rather broad, whereas there is an urgent need for developing and adopting comprehensive guidelines for the ERA by RCGM and GEAC. The process for the same should be transparent and consultative, involving all stakeholders and it must start immediately. d. A Risk Assessment Unit (RAU), as also suggested in the “Draft Establishment Plan for the National Biotechnology Regulatory Authority” should be established. Further, the RAU should serve both RCGM and GEAC and be permanently staffed by a multi-disciplinary team of scientists/experts competent enough and responsible for undertaking science- based risk assessments, including but not limited to those required to approve clinical or confined field trials for the experimental GMOs as well as for their commercial release of GMOs (i.e., product specific risk assessments). The proposed RAU could be transitioned to the Biotechnology Regulatory Authority of India (BRAI), as and when the BRAI Bill is promulgated by the Parliament. e. In addition to establishing the RAU, RCGM and GEAC should immediately establish a roster of qualified scientific experts in relevant disciplines to provide sound scientific advice/ information on biosafety issues that could impact on human and animal health as well as the environment. The issue concerning conflict of interest should also be addressed while including experienced scientists to the roster. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1989 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. f. Although, the safety assessment is completed after GEAC approval and subsequently the GM crops are to be treated in the same manner as their non-GM counterparts for the purpose of variety/hybrid release and registration, seed multiplication and cultivation; as a measure to ensure quality products for the farmers, the National Agricultural Research System (NARS) should have an assigned responsibility for the conduct of confined field trials for assessing the agronomic performance, an essential requirement for the release of GM varieties/ hybrids in accordance with the National Seed Policy as well as National Seed Act.