The conclusion of the High Court that the accused cannot be remanded beyond the period of 60 days under Section 167 and that further remand could only be at the post- cognizance stage, is not correct in view of the of this Court in Bhikamchand Jain (supra).” 18. In the instant case as transpiring from the record, the respondents (A1 and A2) were arrested in connection with the FIR in question on 19.07.2022, and the report (the chargesheet) running into about 900 pages under Section 173(2) was filed by the CBI against the respondents along with other 73 accused on 15.10.2022. In the said report it was stated in Para no. 66 that: - “66. With regard to ascertaining roles of remaining FIR named accused persons namely Sh. Sudhakar Shetry, M/s Amaryllis Realtors & M/s Gulmarg Realtors, remaining CAs (who had audited balance sheets of e-DHFL & Shell companies and who had facilitated the promoters), ultimate beneficiaries/end use of diverted funds through shell companies & other Wadhawan Group Companies, the DHFL officials, insider share trading of DHFL shares, bank officials, NHB officials and other connected issues, further investigation u/s 173 (8) of Cr. PC is continuing. List of additional witnesses and additional documents will be filed as and when required. It is, therefore, humbly prayed that the aforesaid accused persons may be summoned and be tried in accordance with the provisions of law.” 19. The Special Court thereafter had taken cognizance of the alleged offences as per the dated 26.11.2022. It appears that earlier the Special Court had rejected the application of the respondents (accused) seeking statutory bail under Section 167(2) Cr.P.C., however at that time the issue was whether qua the offences against [2024] 1 S.C.R. 691 Central Bureau of Investigation v. Kapil Wadhawan & Anr. the respondents, period of sixty days or ninety days was applicable for grant of mandatory bail due to non-filing of chargesheet by the investigating agency, and it was held by the Special Court that the period of ninety days was applicable in case of the respondents, in which the chargesheet could be filed by the CBI. The respondents thereafter filed another application under Section167(2) after the cognizance of the offences was taken by the Special Court, on the ground that the chargesheet filed against them was an incomplete chargesheet. 20. The bone of contention raised by the learned Senior Counsels for the Respondents in this appeal is that the appellant – CBI having kept the investigation open qua other respondents as stated in Para 66 of the chargesheet, the ingredients of Section 173 Cr.P.C. could not be said to have been complied with and therefore the report/ chargesheet under Section 173 could not be said to be a complete chargesheet. It is immaterial whether cognizance has been taken by the court or not. According to them the chargesheet filed against the respondents and others was a subterfuge or ruse to defeat the indefeasible right of the respondents conferred under Section 167(2) Cr.P.C. 21.