Hence, when a male Hindu executes a will bequeathing the properties, the legatees take it subject to the terms of the will unless of course, any stipulation therein is found invalid. Therefore, there is nothing in the Act which affects the right of a male Hindu to dispose of his property by providing only a life estate or limited estate for his widow. The Act does not stand in the way of his separate properties being dealt with by him as he deems fit. His will hence could not be challenged as being hit by the Act. 14. When he thus validly disposes of his property by providing for a limited estate to his heir, the wife, the wife or widow has to take it as the estate falls. This restriction on her right so provided, is really respected by the Act. It provides in Section 14(2) of the Act, that in such a case, the widow is bound by the limitation on her right and she cannot claim any higher right by invoking Section 14(1) of the Act. In other words, conferment of a limited estate which is otherwise valid in law is reinforced by this Act by the introduction of Section 14(2) of the Act and excluding the operation of Section 14(1) of the Act, even if that provision is held to be attracted in the case of a succession under the Act. Invocation of Section 14(1) of the Act in the case of a testamentary disposition taking effect after the Act, 518 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports would make Sections 30 and 14(2) redundant or otiose. It will also make redundant, the expression “property possessed by a female Hindu” occurring in Section 14(1) of the Act. An interpretation that leads to such a result cannot certainly be accepted. Surely, there is nothing in the Act compelling such an interpretation. Sections 14 and 30 both have play. Section 14(1) applies in a case where the female had received the property prior to the Act being entitled to it as a matter of right, even if the right be to a limited estate under the Mitakshara law or the right to maintenance.” 22. It is important to note that except, Karmi (supra), the decisions in Bhura, Gumpha and Sadhu Singh (supra) are all by two Judge benches. The larger perspective in which Section 14 was interpreted holistically commenced from Karmi and was followed in many subsequent cases. Some of the decisions in the same line are Gaddam Ramakrishnareddy, Jagan Singh, Shivdev Kaur, Ranvir Dewan and Jogi Ram (supra). 23. We have noticed that while following Tulsamma, the subsequent decisions in Thota Sesharathamma, Masilamani Mudaliar and Shakuntala Devi (supra) have made passing observations about the discordant note in the case of Karmi, Bhura and Gumpha (supra) but they have not been clearly and categorically overruled. Perhaps this is the reason why the subsequent decisions consistently followed the idea in Karmi and enunciated different principles in the subsequent decisions of Gumpha, Sadhu Singh (supra) and that perspective continued on its own strength.