47. Above, we have assigned reasons why the High Court was not justified in its approach. Independent thereof, there is one equally weighty reason for allowing the instant appeals. As discussed in M.P. Public Service Commission (supra), a recruiting authority is well-nigh entitled to adopt a method for shortlisting candidates on some rational and reasonable basis when selection is required to be made only on the basis of an interview. In the present case, ‘Note’ to Reg.4.1 relating to Assistant Professor ordains that after shortlisting of candidates based on academic score specified in Tables 3A and 3B, “the selections shall be based only on the performance in the interview”. In course of hearing, we were informed by learned senior counsel for Allahabad University that 69 candidates were shortlisted and called for interview (the cut-off marks being 87.17), who were competing against each other for appointment on only one unreserved vacancy. Respondent 1 had secured 81 marks and between 87.17 and 81 marks, there were 147 candidates. It is true that these facts and figures are not on record but appointment in furtherance of the advertisement dated 28th September, 2021 having been made, the High Court directed that appointment already made need not be reopened. It is for this reason that we do not disbelieve the instructions provided to learned senior counsel for Allahabad University. However, considering the disproportionate number of applications received in comparison to the number of vacancies available to be filled up, Allahabad University narrowed the zone of consideration by adopting a marking scheme in the way it did with the obvious ultimate objective of permitting candidates with higher teaching experience to enter the zone of consideration. This methodology was perfectly in sync with Regs.4 and 10 read 1836 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports with Table 3A. The Division Bench, therefore, ought not to have been swayed in its decision-making process by reason of teaching experience not being a mandatory eligibility criterion. 48. We are also of the view that the criteria for shortlisting of candidates as engrafted in Tables 3A and 3B were in furtherance of the entire scheme framed by the UGC for appointment on the post of Assistant Professors in universities as well as in colleges. Clause 7 of Tables 3A and 3B, having direct relation with Reg.10, did not call for any observation from the Division Bench of the High Court of the nature noticed above. An aspirant satisfying the conditions in Reg.10 would be entitled to marks either for teaching experience or post-doctoral experience for which a cap of 10 (ten) marks is imposed. Reg.10,on its very terms, makes it clear that rendering of past services is not a sine qua non for direct recruitment. If indeed a candidate has served in the past and answers all the conditions that Reg.10 envisages, read with clause 7 of Tables 3A or 3B, as the case may be, he/ she would be entitled to marks for teaching experience. In such circumstances, we hold that the Division Bench completely erred in appreciating the contentious issues in the proper perspective vis-à- vis the law applicable thereto and returned findings which are not only unwarranted but are wholly unacceptable.