1691 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. 16. The three-Judge Bench then referred the matter to a seven-Judge Bench. 17. When this matter was taken up for hearing, the Union of India sought to withdraw its appeal against the decision of the Division Bench of the Allahabad High Court.16 This Court is competent to hear the present case even if the Union of India was permitted to withdraw its appeal because the other appellants continue to press their case. C. Submissions 18. The petitioners broadly contend that the decision in Azeez Basha (supra) is not correct, and that AMU is a minority institution. The submissions of the learned counsel on behalf of the petitioners and the intervenors are summarized below. 19. Dr. Rajeev Dhawan, learned senior counsel made the following submissions: a. The Union of India’s recent attempt to withdraw its appeal against the minority status of AMU contradicts its consistent position since 1981; b. Azeez Basha (supra) is no longer good law because: i. It failed to recognize that the words ‘establish’ and ‘administer’ are not preconditions to define a minority but the consequential rights that flow from such a recognition; ii. The assumption that universities lose their minority status when recognized by a statute conflicts with the right of minorities to establish educational institutions; iii. It recognized the role of the Muslim community in the establishment of AMU but held that its origins and administration were rooted in legislation. This interpretation could restrict the recognition of minority institutions under Article 30; iv. Its restrictive interpretation of the word ‘establish’ in Article 30(1) is contrary to the expansive view adopted by subsequent s; and 16 Civil Appeal No. 2318 of 2006, Supreme Court of India 1692 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports v. This decision has been superseded by subsequent decisions like TMA Pai (supra), which emphasized that the religious character of an institution cannot be stripped down by government interventions. c. Upholding Azeez Basha (supra) could jeopardize the minority status of several educational institutions, including recognized minority institutions like St. Stephen’s College and Christian Medical College; d. Minority rights were acknowledged by the State before the adoption of the Constitution through various legislative enactments like the Indian Councils Act of 1909, and the Government of India Acts of 1919 and 1935, which provided reservations to Muslims, Sikhs, and Christians in the legislature; e. The formation of AMU was characterized as a “movement” rather than a “surrender” by the Mohammedan Anglo-Oriental College. Provisions in the AMU Act, including the transfer of assets, liabilities, and special provisions for Muslim students, underscore the continuation of minority rights with the establishment of AMU; f. Entry 63 in the Union List of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution deals with the competence of the Union to make laws regarding AMU and BHU but does not determine who established or administers the universities. Article 30, which guarantees minority rights, cannot be negated merely because the institution is of national importance in terms of Entry 63; g. The evolution of the AMU Act can be broken down into four phases: pre-1951 with Muslim administration, the 1951 Amendment aligning with the Constitution, the 1965 Amendment diluting minority status, and attempts to restore minority status in 1972 and 1981; h. While the 1951 amendment aligned the Act with the Constitution by removing compulsory religious education, the 1965 amendment diluted minority administration by reducing “the Court” to an advisory role, shifting the supreme governing authority to the “Visitor” and the President of India; and i.