Of relatively recent vintage is the Resolution of the Human Rights Council dated 12th July 2021 passed in its 47th session, the relevant extract of which read as under: 16 [1995] Supp. 6 SCR 731 : (1996) 1 SCC 490 1138 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports “1. Urges States to condemn harmful practices related to accusations of witchcraft and ritual attacks that result in human rights violations; 2. Also urges States to take all measures necessary to ensure the elimination of harmful practices amounting to human rights violations related to accusations of witchcraft and ritual attacks, and to ensure accountability and the effective protection of all persons, particularly persons in vulnerable situations; … 4. Invites States, in collaboration with relevant regional and international organizations, to promote bilateral, regional and international initiatives to support the protection of all persons vulnerable to harmful practices amounting to human rights violations related to accusations of witchcraft and ritual attacks, while noting that, in providing protection, attention to local context is critical; .... 6. Emphasizes that States should carefully distinguish between harmful practices amounting to human rights violations related to accusations of witchcraft and ritual attacks and the lawful and legitimate exercise of different kinds of religion or beliefs, in to preserve the right to freely manifest a religion or a belief, individually or in a community with others, including for persons belonging to religious minorities; 7. Encourages human rights mechanisms, including relevant special procedures of the Human Rights Council and treaty bodies, to compile and share information on harmful practices related to accusations of witchcraft and ritual attacks and their impact on the enjoyment of human rights; …” (Emphasis Supplied) [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1139 Rajeev Kumar Upadhyay v. Srikant Upadhyay & Ors. 25. Subsequent to this resolution, a report of the Office of UN High Commissioner for Human Rights was submitted to the Council in its 52nd session titled ‘Study on the situation of the violations and abuses of human rights rooted in harmful practices related to accusations of witchcraft and ritual attacks, as well as stigmatization.’17. The section on ‘Women and Girls’ deserves extraction given the context with which this Court is concerned: “17. The Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women has noted that in some countries persistent patriarchal norms confine women to their reproductive role and legitimize harmful practices, including the accusation of witchcraft and the social exclusion of women and girls accused of practising witchcraft. Reportedly, women who do not fulfil gender stereotypes, such as widows, childless or unmarried women, are at increased risk of accusations of witchcraft and systemic discrimination. Other marginalized groups include older women, women with disabilities, mothers of children with albinism, Indigenous women, women belonging to minorities and lower castes, women of African descent and women of diverse sexual orientations, gender identities, gender expressions and sex characteristics. 18. Research indicates that women are more often subjected to accusations of witchcraft than men. Women accused of witchcraft have been subjected to various forms of violence, including being beaten, burnt, stripped naked, raped, mutilated, buried alive and killed.