If the goods are not deliverable at all by the service provider to the subscriber, the question of the right to use those goods would not arise. 31. What is relevant in the case of BSNL5 is the concurring view taken by Dr. AR Laxmanan, J. In paragraph 97, Dr. AR Laxmanan, J held thus: “97. To constitute a transaction for the transfer of the right to use the goods, the transaction must have the following attributes: (a) there must be goods available for delivery; (b) there must be a consensus ad idem as to the identity of the goods; (c) the transferee should have a legal right to use the goods—consequently all legal consequences of such use including any permissions or licences required therefor should be available to the transferee; (d) for the period during which the transferee has such legal right, it has to be the exclusion to the transferor—this is the necessary concomitant of the plain language of the statute viz. a “transfer of the right to use” and not merely a licence to use the goods; [2024] 1 S.C.R. 507 M/s. K.P. Mozika v. Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Ltd. and Ors. (e) having transferred the right to use the goods during the period for which it is to be transferred, the owner cannot again transfer the same rights to others.” (underline supplied) 32. The view taken by Dr AR Laxmanan, J has been consistently followed thereafter by this Court in various decisions. In the case of Great Eastern Shipping Company Limited7, paragraph 97 of the view expressed by Dr. AR Laxmanan, J was quoted with approval. A Bench of three Hon’ble Judges of this Court in the case of Commissioner of Service Tax, Ahmedabad v. Adani Gas Limited14 quoted paragraph 97 of the view expressed by Dr AR Laxmanan, J with approval. In fact, in paragraph 17, the Bench observed that the tests laid down in paragraph 97 of the decision in the case of BSNL5 have been applied to determine whether the transaction involved the transfer of the right to use any goods under sub-clause (d) of Clause 29A of Article 366 of the Constitution of India. 33. In the case of Quick Heal Technologies Ltd.8, in paragraph 46, the tests laid down by Dr. AR Laxmanan, J have been quoted with approval. In paragraph 53 of the said decision, this Court held thus: “53. The following principles to the extent relevant may be summed up: 53.1. The Constitution (Forty-sixth Amendment) Act intends to rope in various economic activities by enlarging the scope of “tax on sale or purchase of goods” so that it may include within its scope, the transfer, delivery or supply of goods that may take place under any of the transactions referred to in sub-clauses (a) to (f) of clause (29-A) of Article 366. The works contracts, hire purchase contracts, supply of food for human consumption, supply of goods by association and clubs, contract for transfer of the right to use any goods are some such economic activities.