High Courts, though were not unanimous in their verdicts, for example Patna High Court struck down the Bihar Land Reforms Act, 1950, but the validity of a similar legislation in Madhya Pradesh was upheld. Similarly, the Constitutional validity of U.P. Zamindari Abolition Act, 1947 was upheld by the Allahabad High Court. 56 That came to be enacted as Article 31 of the original Constitution. 57 cOnstituent asseMBly deBates, vOl. iX, Pg. 1195. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 301 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. This was done by Allahabad High Court in Raja Suryapal Singh v. U.P of Govt., 1951 SCC OnLine All 183. One of the grounds on which the U.P. Zamindari Abolition Act was challenged was that the acquisition under it was not for ‘public purpose’ and it did not make provisions for adequate compensation, thus, violating Article 31(2) of the Constitution. The High Court went into the question of ‘public purpose’ as used in the Constitution, and while exploring the meaning of words ‘public purpose’, enquired as to whether there are any other provisions which can guide the Court to attribute a meaning to these words. The decision of Allahabad High Court came in the very early days of the Constitution when the relationship between Directive Principles and Fundamental Rights was yet to be explored. It was a time when the First Constitutional Amendment had yet to be introduced. We would like to reproduce here some of the observations of Allahabad High Court: “41. Now is there to be found in the Constitution of India anything to guid the Cts. as to the meaning to be attributed to the expression “public purpose” when used therein? We think there is. Chap. 4 contains what are described as directive principles of State policy, & although those principles are not enforceable by any Ct. Article 37 specifically lays down that they are nevertheless fundamental in the governance of the country & that “it shall be the duty of the State to apply these principles in making laws. 42. If then we examine the directive principles we find that Article 39, cls. (b) & (c) provide: “(b) that the ownership & control of the material resources of the community are so distributed as best to sub-serve the common good; (c) that the operation of the economic system does not result in the concentration of wealth & means of production to the common detriment.. …… 302 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 47. If, therefore, the acquisition of property sought to be affected (effected?) by the impugned Act is for the purpose of implementing one or more of the directive principles of State policy it will, in our , be for a public purpose within the meaning of the Constitution, & it will be unnecessary for us to consider whether for other purposes it comes within the meaning which the law has given to that expression.” 58 33. In to safeguard land reform laws from the interference of the Courts, the Constitution (First Amendment) Act, 1951 was introduced.