The substance or object of the Suit has to be gathered from the averments made in the Plaint and on which the reliefs asked in the prayers were based. 32. In the present case, the alleged contract for the sale executed between the parties through exchange of communications dated 16.01.2004 and 20.01.2004 respectively contains the stipulation that 10% of the total sale consideration has to be paid immediately by the plaintiff upon booking, 85% of the sale consideration has to be paid by 28.02.2004 and the balance 5% of the sale consideration has to be paid at the time of notice for possession of the premises. Further, there is a stipulation that the possession of the suit property has to be handed over by the defendants to the plaintiff upon payment of the balance 5% of the total sale consideration. Further, section 55(1) (f) of the Transfer of Property Act also stipulates that the seller of an [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1311 Rohit Kochhar v. Vipul Infrastructure Developers Ltd. & Ors. immovable property is required to handover the possession of the property to the buyer pursuant to the execution of the sale deed. It was also held in Babu Lal (supra) that in view of the interplay between Sections 22 and 28 of the Specific Relief Act respectively and Section 55 of the Transfer of Property Act, the handing over of the possession of the immovable property in respect of which a decree of specific performance has been granted is only incidental. 33. Thus, it is clear from the terms of the alleged contract between the parties that the transfer of possession of the suit property is implicit in the said contract and absence of a specific prayer seeking transfer of possession would not have any bearing on the character of the suit, which is one covered by Section 16(d) of the CPC. 34. If we were to hold otherwise, then it would give rise to a situation where a plaintiff would be allowed to file a suit for specific performance simplicter and having obtained a decree therein, the plaintiff would pray for the transfer of the execution proceedings to the court within whose territorial jurisdiction the suit property lies and thereafter seek amendment of the plaint to include a prayer for transfer of possession, which has been expressly held to be permissible in Babu Lal (supra). An interpretation which gives rise to the possibility of such misuse of law cannot be allowed. 35. For all the aforesaid reasons, the Special Leave Petitions fail and are hereby dismissed. 36. Interim relief granted earlier stands vacated. 37. In view of the aforesaid, it is now for the plaintiff to take appropriate steps to present the plaint before the court of competent jurisdiction and get his suit adjudicated on merits in accordance with law. 38. Pending applications, if any, also stand disposed of. Result of the case: Special Leave Petitions dismissed. †Headnotes prepared by: Divya Pandey