These items are (i) one Scorpio car; (ii) T.V. ; (iii) fridge; (iv) DVD Tape; (v) silver utensils; (vi) 100 to 150 tolas gold; (vii) and Rs. 5 lacs. This allegation relates to the year 2002 and the present complaint is of the year 2013. It is important to mention at this very stage that identical allegations in a DV case filed by the complainant were taken up at trial and the Judicial Magistrate, First Class had disbelieved the complainant’s version. We will be dealing with the of the Judicial Magistrate, First Class in little more detail in the succeeding paras of the . The second allegation relates to a bare statement that there exists a joint locker and that the keys of the said locker are with her stepmother-in-law, that is the appellant no. 1. Even on this, the Judicial Magistrate, First Class has observed that there are no details whatsoever, about the bank or the locker. 10.1 The tendency to make general, vague, and omnibus allegation is noticed by this Court in many decisions. In Usha Chakraborty v. State of W.B.,4 this court observed that: 4 2023 SCC OnLine SC 90. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 71 Kailashben Mahendrabhai Patel & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Anr. “16... the respondent alleged commission of offences under Sections 323, 384, 406, 423, 467, 468, 420 and 120B, IPC against the appellants. A bare perusal of the said allegation and the ingredients to attract them, as adverted to hereinbefore would reveal that the allegations are vague and they did not carry the essential ingredients to constitute the alleged offences.... The ingredients to attract the alleged offence referred to hereinbefore and the nature of the allegations contained in the application filed by the respondent would undoubtedly make it clear that the respondent had failed to make specific allegation against the appellants herein in respect of the aforesaid offences. The factual position thus would reveal that the genesis as also the purpose of criminal proceedings are nothing but the aforesaid incident and further that the dispute involved is essentially of civil nature. The appellants and the respondents have given a cloak of criminal offence in the issue ...” 10.2 Similarly, dealing with allegations lacking in particulars and details, in Neelu Chopra v. Bharti,5 this court observed that: “7. ...what strikes us is that there are no particulars given as to the date on which the ornaments were handed over, as to the exact number of ornaments or their description and as to the date when the ornaments were asked back and were refused. Even the weight of the ornaments is not mentioned in the complaint and it is a general and vague complaint that the ornaments were sometime given in the custody of the appellants and they were not returned. What strikes us more is that even in Para 10 of the complaint where the complainant says that she asked for her clothes and ornaments which were given to the accused and they refused to give these back, the date is significantly absent.” 5 [2009] 14 SCR 1074 : (2009) 10 SCC 184.