The correct words to be printed in the should have been “cess on royalty” in place of “royalty” only. The words “cess on” appear to have been inadvertently or erroneously omitted while typing the text of the . This is clear from reading the in its entirety. Vide paras 22 and 31, which precede para 34 abovesaid, Their Lordships have held that “royalty” is not a tax. Even the last line of para 34 records “royalty on mineral rights is not a tax on land but a payment for the user of land”. The very first sentence of the para records in quick succession “… as such a cess on royalty being a tax on royalty, is beyond the competence of the State Legislature….” What Their Lordships have intended to record is “… that cess on royalty is a tax, and as such a cess on royalty being a tax on royalty, is beyond the competence of the State Legislature …”. That makes correct and sensible reading. A doubtful expression occurring in a , apparently by mistake or inadvertence, ought to be read by assuming that the Court had intended to say only that which is correct according to the settled position of law, and the apparent error should be ignored, far from making any capital out of it, giving way to the correct expression which ought to be implied or necessarily read in the context, also having regard to what has been said a little before and a little after. No learned Judge would consciously author a which is self-inconsistent or incorporates passages repugnant to each other. Vide para 22, Their Lordships have clearly held that there is no [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1807 Mineral Area Development Authority & Anr. v. M/s Steel Authority of India & Anr. Etc. entry in List II which enables the State to impose a tax on royalty and, therefore, the State was incompetent to impose such a tax (cess). The cess which has an incidence of an additional charge on royalty and not a tax on land, cannot apparently be justified as falling under Entry 49 in List II.” (underlining by me) 23.8 Thereafter, this Court discussed the meaning and content of the expression royalty from various dictionaries and other authorities and referred to the s of the High Courts of Orissa, Punjab and Haryana, and Gujarat High Court and in paragraph 64 observed as under: “64. We need not further multiply the authorities. Suffice it to say that until the pronouncement in India Cement [(1990) 1 SCC 12 : 1989 Supp (1) SCR 692 : AIR 1990 SC 85] nobody doubted the correctness of “royalty” not being a tax.” (underlining by me) And ultimately in paragraph 69, it was inferred as under: “69. In India Cement [(1990) 1 SCC 12 : 1989 Supp (1) SCR 692 : AIR 1990 SC 85] (vide para 31, SCC) decisions of four High Courts holding “royalty is not tax” have been noted without any adverse comment. Rather, the view seems to have been noted with tacit approval.