Protection of the rights of all other stakeholders, including other creditors, would obviously be concomitant of such resurgence of the corporate debtor. 50.1. Keeping the objectives of the Code in view, the position and role of a person having only security interest over the assets of the corporate debtor could easily be contrasted with the role of a financial creditor because the former shall have only the interest of realising the value of its security (there being no other stakes involved and least any stake in the corporate debtor's growth or equitable liquidation) while the latter would, apart from looking at safeguards of its own interests, would also and simultaneously be interested in rejuvenation, revival and growth of the corporate debtor. Thus understood, it is clear that if the former i.e. a person having only security interest over the assets of the corporate debtor is also included as a financial creditor and thereby allowed to have its say in the processes contemplated by Part II of the Code, the growth and revival of the corporate debtor may be the casualty. Such result would defeat the very objective and purpose of the Code, particularly of the provisions aimed at corporate insolvency resolution. 50.2. Therefore, we have no hesitation in saying that a person having only security interest over the assets of corporate debtor (like the instant third-party securities), even if falling within the description of “secured creditor” by virtue of collateral security extended by the corporate debtor, would nevertheless stand outside the sect of 230 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “financial creditors” as per the definitions contained in sub-sections (7) and (8) of Section 5 of the Code. Differently put, if a corporate debtor has given its property in mortgage to secure the debts of a third party, it may lead to a mortgage debt and, therefore, it may fall within the definition of “debt” under Section 3(10) of the Code. However, it would remain a debt alone and cannot partake the character of a “financial debt” within the meaning of Section 5(8) of the Code.” (emphasis added) A Bench of three Hon’ble Judges of this Court in the case of Phoenix ARC Private Limited6 dealt with the issue in greater detail. It also dealt with the concept of the time value of money. In paragraphs 44 to 47 of the said decision, this Court held thus: “44. Section 5(8) IBC provides a definition of “financial debt” in the following terms: XXX XXX XXX G.3.2. Financial creditor and financial debt 45. Under Section 5(7) IBC, a person can be categorised as a financial creditor if a financial debt is owed to it. Section 5(8) IBC stipulates that the essential ingredient of a financial debt is disbursal against consideration for the time value of money. This Court, speaking through Rohinton F. Nariman, J., in Swiss Ribbons (P) Ltd. v. Union of India [Swiss Ribbons (P) Ltd. v. Union of India, (2019) 4 SCC 17] has held : (SCC p. 64, para 42) “42.