d) That discussion was held with the applicant and the sub- committee advised for continuous monitoring and further investigation for fitness and the transfer of transgenic trait from DMH-11 to their progenies and feral populations that will be essential for implementing management strategies to minimize persistence and dissemination from release site. The sub-committee also advised that a suitable post- release management strategy should be implemented. e) That certain data had to be incorporated in the revised dossier, along with the details of oil content and other measured parameters in the revised dossier. f) That the data suggested that the activities of barnase need to be presented quantitatively and UDSC-barnase specific activity can be compared with any other over expressed barnase specific activity to compare activity status of the proteins. g) That the updated statistics data from National Institute of Nutrition (NIN) may be included in the revised dossier. h) That Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) for Barnase promoter has not been registered in India. i) Requested the University to check whether DMH-11 hybrid accumulated complexes of barnase + barstar. j) Questioned whether grazing of transgenic mustard by farm animals would affect them. k) That the bar gene is present in the two parental varieties and continues to be present in the hybrid but release of 2006 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports marker free hybrid would have been desirable. For that, reply by the applicant was that barnase/barstar technology requires a herbicide gene for hybrid seed production and for maintaining the male sterile line. l) That the regulatory guidelines provide an overall list of principles for conducting biosafety studies and therefore, case specific issues need to be addressed by the applicant. m) That sub-chronic toxicity was evaluated in rats, though it would have been much more relevant to do so in rabbits, goats and other cattle which are likely to consume mustard leaves. n) That issues regarding deliberate introduction of a protein that induces cell death into our food were raised/discussed. o) That in the case of canola, only oil is consumed, but mustard leaves and seeds are consumed as food by humans and this is a matter of concern. To this, the reply of the applicant was as under: “It is a fact that a fear-psychosis has been created around transgenic crops. Transgenic technologies are heavily patented and mainly with transnationals-many fear that dependence on proprietary technologies may jeopardize food security of developing countries like India. Although European continent is scientifically very advanced – they seem to have opted for chemical control rather than biological control. Europe is a huge importer of food and has no ambition of increasing food production. They are only interested in high-value agriculture. Europe has not released even any cisgenic event. Japan gave biosafety clearance for environmental release of barnase/ barstar Canola in 1996 – but has chosen not to grow it. However, Japan is the largest importer of Canola seed, oil and meal. Decisions on not growing GM crops are political and economic in nature – rather than related to biosafety.” p) That long-term post-release monitoring should be implemented to study (i) weediness, (ii) pollen flow to wild [2024] 7 S.C.R.