Hence age relaxation was provided to them. According to the State, there was nothing discriminatory about it. In support of the submission, learned counsels for the State relied on Satya Dev Bhagaur & Ors. Vs. The State of Rajasthan & Ors., (2022) 5 SCC 314. 17. The learned Single Judge and the Division Bench declined relief to the appellants. Aggrieved the appellants are before us. We have also heard the learned counsels for the parties proposing to implead or intervene. Questions for consideration: 18. The two questions that arise for consideration are: i. Is Rule 13(v) of the Rules, insofar as it provides age relaxation to the persons serving under educational projects discriminatory and contrary to Article 14 of the Constitution of India? ii. Is the award of bonus marks to the project employed applicants discriminatory and ultra vires the Rules? Are the guidelines of 27.05.2008 sanctioning the award of bonus marks on a differential basis for applicants with project experience and other applicants invalid for any other reason? 208 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Question No. 1: 19. To answer this, a full look at Rule 13 is essential: “13. Age. A candidate for direct recruitment to a post enumerated in the Schedule must have attained the age of 23 years and must not have attained the age of 35 years on the first day of January following the last date fixed for receipt of applications : Provided - (i) that the upper age limit mentioned above, shall be relaxed by 5 years in the case of male candidates belonging to the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and the Other Backward classes. (ii) that the upper age limit mentioned above shall be relaxed by 5 years in case of women candidates belonging to General Category. (iii) that the upper age limit mentioned above shall be relaxed by 10 years in the case of women candidates belonging to the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and the Other Backward classes. (iv) that the upper age limit mentioned above shall be 50 years in the case of Ex-service personnel and the reservists, namely the Defence Service Personnel who were transferred to the reserve. (v) that the person serving under the educational project in the State viz Rajiv Gandhi Pathshala/Shiksha Karmi Board/Lok Jumbish Pariyojana/Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan/District Primary Education Programme shall be deemed to be within age limit, had they been within the age limit when they were initially engaged even though they may have crossed the age limit at the time of direct recruitment. (vi) that the upper age limit mentioned above shall be relaxed by a period equal to the service rendered in the NCC in the case of Cadet instructors and if [2024] 7 S.C.R. 209 Mahesh Chand Bareth & Anr. v. State of Rajasthan & Ors. the resultant age does not exceed the prescribed maximum age limit by more than three years, they shall be deemed to be within the prescribed age limit. (vii) that the Released Emergency Commissioned Officers and Short Service Commissioned Officers after release from the Army shall be deemed to be within the age limit even though they have crossed the age limit when they appear before the Committee had they been eligible as such at the time of their joining the Commission in the Army.