Digital Supreme Court Reports (e) The conclusion of trials in the pending criminal cases is marred by uncertainty; and (f) The Petitioners have shown their bona fide towards refunding the investors’ amounts, and any further delay in this regard, will be prejudicial to one and all. 7. Keeping these exceptional and peculiar circumstances in view, we deem it fit to invoke our powers under Article 142 of the Constitution of India, so as to do complete justice between the parties and hence, constitute the HPSC comprising of the following: (a) Hon’ble Mr. Justice S. Ravindra Bhatt, Former Judge, Supreme Court of India – Chairperson; (b) Dr. Justice Satish Chandra, Former Judge, High Court of Allahabad – Member; (c) A nominee of SEBI who shall be an officer preferably in the rank of its Director – Member; (d) States of Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana are hereby directed to appoint one of their officers of the Revenue Department, not below the rank of Collector, to assist the HPSC in relation to the properties situated within that State. The Collector shall be obligated to provide the requisite information, in writing, and shall sign the proceedings as State Representative; (e) Mr. Pardeep Kumar Sharma, Registrar (Retd. ), Supreme Court of India is hereby appointed as the Member Secretary-cum- Nodal officer of the HPSC. He shall be the Principal Custodian of all records and shall coordinate between the Chairperson and Members of the Committee as well as the State Authorities to give effect to the task assigned to the HPSC; (f) The Deputy Secretary, Department of Home, Government of Maharashtra, who is the Officer in charge of the EOW, shall act as Secretary to the HPSC for the purpose of securing title/ ownership records or other relevant documents from different States and shall be jointly responsible along with Member- Secretary for maintenance and custody of record; (g) The HPSC may, at its discretion, associate: [2024] 7 S.C.R. 739 Balasaheb Keshawrao Bhapkar & Ors. v. Securities and Exchange Board of India & Ors. (i) A Chartered Accountant; or (ii) A Civil Engineer; or (iii) An Architect; or (iv) Any other expert, from time to time as and when required; (h) The HPSC shall: (i) Firstly, obtain all property documents/original title deeds and other relevant records from the SEBI/EOW/MPID Court, Mumbai and Sub-Registrars of different States, where the properties of M/s Sai Prasad Group of Companies are located; (ii) A database of the property documents, along with material details, shall be created; (iii) Arrangements shall be made for safe storage, digitalisation, and unique number marking of the property documents/ original title deeds and other jewellery items; (iv) In this regard, SEBI with the help of Stock Holding Document Management Services Ltd., will provide the necessary facilities; (i) The HPSC shall take necessary steps to ensure that all the properties are shown to be entrusted/encumbered in its favour in the State Government land records; (j) The HPSC shall appoint a pool of Certified Valuers to evaluate the Company’s assets in each State; (k) We hereby confer and vest all the powers of a Civil Court in the HPSC for taking necessary actions to speed up the liquidation of the Companies’ properties; (l) The HPSC, with the help of experts, will prepare a list of properties already sold under the supervision of the MPID Court, Mumbai, as well as a separate list of the properties that are yet to be sold; (m) The HPSC will engage/appoint e-auction service providers for auctioning of the assets; (n) Similarly, expert agencies may be empanelled for the valuation of the assets for initiating the public auction process and its advertisement; 740 [2024] 7 S.C.R.