We do not find merit in this submission. 74. Section 62 of the IBC governs statutory appeals to the Supreme Court from the s of the NCLAT. The provision reads as follows: “62. Appeal to Supreme Court – (1) Any person aggrieved by an of the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal may file an appeal to the Supreme Court on a question of law arising out of such under this Code within forty-five days from the date of receipt of such . (2) The Supreme Court may, if it is satisfied that a person was prevented by sufficient cause from filing an appeal within forty-five days, allow the appeal to be filed within a further period not exceeding fifteen days.” (emphasis supplied) 75. The provision stipulates that “any person” who is aggrieved by the of the NCLAT may file an appeal before the Supreme Court within the prescribed limitation period. Similar language is used in Section 61 of the IBC, which provides for appeals to NCLAT from s of the NCLT.50 The use of the phrase “any person aggrieved” 50 “61. Appeals and Appellate Authority.- (1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained under the Companies Act 2013 (18 of 2013), any person aggrieved by the of the Adjudicating Authority under this part may prefer an appeal to the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal. […]” [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1849 GLAS Trust Company LLC v. BYJU Raveendran & Ors. indicates that there is no rigid locus requirement to institute an appeal challenging an of the NCLT, before the NCLAT or an of the NCLAT, before this Court. Any person who is aggrieved by the may institute an appeal, and nothing in the provision restricts the phrase to only the applicant creditor and the corporate debtor. As noted above, once the CIRP is initiated, the proceedings are no longer restricted to the individual applicant creditor and the corporate debtor but rather become collective proceedings (in rem), where all creditors, such as the appellant, are necessary stakeholders. The appellant is not an unrelated party to the CIRP, but is in fact, an entity whose claims had been verified by the IRP vide letter 19 August 2024. The appellant who claims to be a Financial Creditor, has expressed reasonable apprehensions about the prejudice it would face if there were roundtripping of the funds, and the prioritization of the debts of the second respondent, an operational creditor. 76. In any event, the appellant had moved an application before the NCLAT seeking impleadment as a respondent and the objections of the appellant were specifically recorded and addressed in the Impugned Judgement. Therefore, there is no doubt that the appellant falls within the ambit of the phrase “any person aggrieved” and has the locus standi to institute the present Civil Appeal before this Court. ii. Approach of the NCLAT in the Impugned Judgement 77. The appellant contends that the NCLAT erred in invoking its inherent powers under Rule 11 of the NCLAT Rules in the presence of a prescribed procedure dealing with the withdrawal of CIRP.