Digital Supreme Court Reports courts” is a valid opting out of the exclusive jurisdiction of Dubai courts, as the parties have intended to avoid impracticable and inconvenient process and procedures as a result of subsequent amendments and modifications to the agreement involving 3 countries, Afghanistan, India and UAE. This submission is discernible from a plain reading of various clauses in the subject of the agreement as well as the conduct of the parties including a non -signatory to the agreement. 4. As held in Bharat Aluminium vs Kaiser Aluminium Technical Services Inc. 2012 (9)SCC 522, at para 99, that, it would be a matter of construction of the individual agreement to decide, whether the designated foreign “seat” would be read as in fact only providing a “venue”/“place” where the hearings would be held; and in the present case on hand, given the choice of UAE Arbitration and Conciliation Rules as being the curial law and the venue at Dubai, will not dictate what the governing or controlling law would be when the 2nd part of clause 27 reiterates the parties’ autonomy in deciding/choosing the seat by expressly stating its intention that “This agreement shall be subject to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the Dubai Courts”. Regard being to other clauses in the agreement, this clause has been incorporated to avoid conflicts related to the jurisdictions of courts and confer jurisdiction on other courts too, it is submitted. (Emphasis supplied). 5. At the outset, be it kindly noted that, the relied upon decision by the respondent to oust the jurisdiction of Indian courts in Mankatsu Impex Private Limited vs Airvisual Limited 2010 (5) SCC 399 is misplaced as it was a case of exclusive jurisdiction in terms conferred by the agreement. A clause therein like Cl.17.2 which provides “the place of arbitration shall be Hong Kong”, in addition to, also providing that “all disputes arising out of the MoU shall be referred to and finally resolved and administered in Hong Kong”…is conspicuously absent in the subject agreement. Still on a matter of law, emphasising the Party’s autonomy, Mankatsu Impex held; [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1157 M/s Arif Azim Co. Ltd. v. M/s Micromax Informatics Fze Quote “20. It is well-settled that “seat of arbitration” and “venue of arbitration” cannot be used interchangeably. It has also been established that mere expression “place of arbitration” cannot be the basis to determine the intention of the parties that they have intended that place as the “seat” of arbitration. The intention of the parties as to the “seat” should be determined from other clauses in the agreement and the conduct of the parties.” Unquote 5. Proposition (i) Where in substance, the parties agreed that the local laws of one country will govern and control a given arbitration, the place where the arbitration is to be heard will not dictate what the governing law or controlling law will be. (Bharath Aluminium vs Kaiser Aluminium Technical services 2012 (9) SCC552 at page 613 Para 107. (ii) When an agreement expressly designates the venue without any express reference to seat, given the various factors connecting the dispute to India in a contract executed in Kabul and wholly to be performed in India and Afghanistan and the absence of any foreign factors connecting the dispute to Dubai with its vagueness and uncertainty of what the parties had intended by their reference to the “Dubai courts”, the burden is on the respondents to establish that its terms constituted Dubai as the seat of arbitration.