The members of the ‘Joint Team’ will be associated and shall cooperate with representatives of NIT Karnataka. 12. The survey will be undertaken for one mining lease at a time. The report will be submitted with the joint signatures of the ‘Joint Team’ to the states of Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh. A copy thereof will be filed before this Court. The said exercise would be completed no later than six months from today. 13. The CEC after receiving the survey/demarcation report will issue notice to the respective lessees and pass appropriate s. This exercise will be undertaken even if the leases have expired in the due course of time. s passed by the CEC will be communicated to the parties, and a report will be filed before this Court within a period of seven months from today. 14. The Monitoring Committee will also be associated with the aforesaid exercise undertaken by the CEC, post the submission of the survey/ demarcation report(s). 12 For short, “NIT Karnataka”. [2024] 3 S.C.R. 1301 Samaj Parivartana Samudaya & Ors. v. State of Karnataka & Ors. 15. The State of Karnataka will be empowered and entitled to participate in the proceedings before the CEC and raise all objections and contentions. 16. Re-list all pending applications in W.P. (C) no. 562/2009 and 768/2013 on 03.04.2024. I.A. No. 225561 of 2023 MPAP and District-Level Production Ceiling 17. As noticed in the summary of developments above, this Court had fixed a district-level production ceiling for all mining leases in the Districts – Bellary, Tumkur and Chitradurga. These caps were enhanced from time to time. The final enhancement of production ceilings was done vide dated 26.08.2022 whereby a production ceiling of 35 MMT for Bellary District and 15 MMT for the Tumkar and Chitradurga Districts was specified. 18. The district-level production ceilings apply to Category A and Category B mining leases. Category ‘C’ mining leases were cancelled and were thereafter e-auctioned, and hence are under a different legal regime. 19. Parallelly, in its report dated 13.03.2012, the CEC fixed the guidelines for the preparation and/or implementation of the R&R Plans as a pre-condition to the resumption of mining in the three districts. This was done given the devastation and degradation of the environment on account of unregulated and illegal mining activities. The objective of the R&R Plans is to:- (a) carry out the time-bound reclamation and rehabilitation of the areas found to be under illegal mining; (b) ensure scientific and environmentally sustainable mining; (c) ensure compliance with the various standards stipulated under the environment/mining statutes; and (d) regular and effective motoring, evaluation and corrective measures. 20. As noticed above, the R&R Plans, together with specifying actions to be undertaken for reclamation and rehabilitation works, provided for an MPAP restriction for each mining lease. However, the upper cap fixed at the district level is mandatory and binding. 1302 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 21. This Court, vide / dated 14.12.2017, directed that a production cap of the individual mining leases will be regulated through the MPAP limits prescribed in the R&R Plans, without reference to the upper or general cap fixed at the district level.