33. The aforesaid view has consistently been followed by this Court in various cases including Gold Quest International Private Limited (supra) and Sadhu Ram Singla and others (supra). 34. The facts in the present case are similar to the facts in the case of Sadhu Ram Singla and others (supra) wherein a dispute between the borrower and the Bank was settled. In the present case also, undisputedly, the FIR and the chargesheet are pertaining to the dispute concerning the loan transaction availed by the accused persons on one hand and the Bank on the other hand. Admittedly, the Bank and the accused persons have settled the matter. Apart from the earlier payment received by the Bank either through Equated Monthly Instalments (EMIs) or sale of the mortgaged properties, the borrowers have paid an amount of Rs.3,80,00,000/- under OTS. After receipt of the amount under OTS, the Bank had also decided to close the loan account. The dispute involved predominantly had overtures of a civil dispute. 35. Apart from that, it is further to be noted that in view of the settlement between the parties in the proceedings before the DRT, the possibility of conviction is remote and bleak. In our view, continuation of the criminal proceedings would put the accused to great oppression and prejudice. 36. In any case, as discussed hereinabove, both the appellants have been arraigned as wives of the Accused Nos. 1 and 2. The specific role that was attributed in the chargesheet was pertaining to Accused No.1. 37. In the result, we find that this was a fit case wherein the High Court ought to have exercised its jurisdiction under Section 482 CrPC and quash the criminal proceedings. 38. We are therefore inclined to allow the present appeal. 39. We accordingly pass the following : 672 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (i) The appeal is allowed. (ii) The impugned and dated 1st September 2017 passed by the High Court of Judicature at Hyderabad for the State of Telangana and the State of Andhra Pradesh in Criminal Petition No. 5778 of 2016 is quashed and aside. (iii) The criminal proceedings against the appellants in C.C. No. 16 of 2014 on the file of Principal Special Judge for CBI Cases, Nampally, Hyderabad is also quashed and set aside. 40. For the reasons stated in I.A. No. 68579 of 2021 for discharge of AOR, the same is allowed. Result of the Case: Appeal allowed. †Headnotes prepared by: Divya Pandey