This would not be a constitutionally just outcome. 20. After India Cement (supra), Parliament enacted the Cess and Other Taxes on Minerals (Validation) Act 1992 to validate the imposition and collection of taxes on minerals made under the State legislations before 1991. The Central Government also increased the rates of royalty to compensate the States for the loss of mineral revenues.34 The recalibration of the royalty rates protected the States from the amount lost due to the abolition of cess on minerals and mineral rights. The assesses submit that in the interregnum they have structured their commercial bargains in terms of the prevalent law. Subsequently, Kesoram (supra) took a view that diverged from the ruling in India Cement (supra). Kesoram (supra) is an operative fact based on which many State legislatures have already enacted taxing statutes. A pragmatic solution to reconcile the financial interests of the States and the assesses can be achieved by proscribing the States from demanding taxes pertaining to Entries 49 and 50 of List II of the Seventh Schedule for the period before Kesoram (supra). 21. The learned Solicitor General has pointed out that the total amount due by the assesses (which includes public sector undertakings) to the 32 Mafatlal Industries Ltd. v. Union of India (1997) 5 SCC 536 [25] 33 Jindal Stainless Ltd. (supra) [17] 34 See ‘Mineral Royalties’, Government of India, Ministry of Mines (2011) 16. [2024] 8 S.C.R. 559 Mineral Area Development Authority & Anr. v. M/s Steel Authority of India & Anr. Etc. governments is substantial and will impose a heavy financial burden on the assesses. During the pendency of the present reference, this Court passed interim s in the tagged matters. These include (i) rejection of the stay of proceedings while allowing restitution in the event the appeal is allowed;35 (ii) grant of interim stay subject to the assesses submitting bank guarantees for the whole amount sought to be recovered;36 and (iii) direction to the States to take no coercive steps against the assesses for recovery of any demands of tax pending the appeal.37 The payment or non-payment of the dues was thus made subject to the outcome of the appeals or petitions. It is a settled legal position that a beneficiary of an interim of stay has to pay interest on the amount withheld or not paid under the interim in the event the outcome goes against the beneficiary.38 22. The total amount, that is the principal plus the interest, due by the assesses in the pending matters may be substantial in comparison to their total net worth. Steel Authority of India has stated on affidavit that retrospective application of MADA (supra) will lead to revival of cumulative demands to the tune of approximately Rupees three thousand crores from different States. The delay in the court proceedings should not be to the detriment of the assesses.39 Taking into consideration the lapse of more than three decades since India Cement (supra) and more than a decade since the matter was referred to a larger Bench, equities will be balanced if the State governments waive the outstanding interest accrued on the principal due from the assesses.