11 [2020] 2 SCR 161 : (2020) 7 SCC 401 12 Rule 6(1)(a) 13 Rule 6(1)(b) [2024] 2 S.C.R. 1161 Dr Kavita Kamboj v. High Court of Punjab and Haryana & Ors test under Rule 8. The first proviso to Rule 914 mandates that the High Court shall, in addition to competitive examination mentioned in Rule 9, consider any criteria as specified under Rule 8. As we shall advert to later in this , the ultimate discretion vests with the High Court regarding how they conduct the examinations under the Rules. The proviso while recognising the power of the High Court to import “any of the criteria” specified in Rule 8 to Rule 9, retains the other differences about the manner in which the two processes of promotion under Rule 8 and Rule 9 would operate. Thus, even though candidates seeking promotions under Rules 6(1)(a) and 6(1)(b) are drawn from in-service judicial officers, there is a rational basis of treating them differently - while some candidates among the in-service officers can seek regular promotions based on their seniority, those relatively junior have an incentive to opt for accelerated promotion by taking a limited competitive examination by demonstrating their merit. Bearing in mind the distinct nature of the test under Rule 8, it cannot be gainsaid that there is a valid basis for imposing a distinct requirement, in this case, of an eligibility cut-off both in the written test and the viva voce independently. The fundamental point is that each of the three avenues for appointment to the Higher Judicial Service are distinct and are based on classifications having a nexus to the object and purpose sought to be achieved. Whether such a requirement is violative of Articles 233 and 235 of the Constitution is a separate matter which would have to be adjudicated independently, which we will do in the subsequent part of this . 40. It is true, as has been submitted on behalf of the unsuccessful candidates, that the Shetty Commission had declined to impose a minimum cut-off in the viva voce conducted for appointments to the Service by direct recruitment. The Shetty Commission appears to have been impelled to do so to avoid an element of subjectivity.15 Based on this, the unsuccessful candidates sought to urge that the same rationale must apply to the viva voce which was held in the normal process of promotion. 41. Now, it is true that certain recommendations of the Shetty Commission in regard to the improvement of the pay scales of the judicial officers 14 “Provided that the High Court shall in addition to the above competitive examination take into consider- ation any of the criteria as specified in Rule 8 above..” 15 Shetty Commission Report, [10.97] 1162 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports were accepted by this Court in the decision of this Court in All India Judges’ Association (supra). However, there was no specific finding in paragraphs 27 and 28 of the All India Judges’ Association (supra) in regard to whether a cut-off should be imposed for recruitment by way of regular promotion.