Thus, as a result of the Validation Act, the decades’ old controversy between States’ attempts to levy taxes on royalty and the High Courts and this Court striking down the same by holding that it was the Parliament only which could do so by a law, brought down the curtains on the said controversy till its revival in Kesoram. 26.8 Justice Jeevan Reddy speaking for the Bench in Kannadasan cleared any lurking doubts about States having any power to levy any cess, tax or other impost on exercise of mineral rights; it was only the Parliament which could impose such a levy either by way of royalty or in any other form. 26.9 Thereafter, in Tata Iron and Steel, the controversy arose from the Patna High Court, in the context of the Validation Act, 1992 wherein it was held that the said Act did not authorise recovery of any tax or cess after 04.04.1991, even if the liability was incurred under the validated laws before 04.04.1991 and consequently, it restrained the State of Bihar from taking any steps to realise such demands. However, by then this Court in Kannadasan had upheld the right of the State to demand and collect levies which were collectable up to 04.04.1991. The decision of the Patna High Court to the extent it restrained the State from realising the demand was challenged before this Court by the State of Bihar. 26.10 The matter was considered by a three-judge Bench as Kannadasan was decided by a two-judge Bench. It was 1820 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports observed that the Validation Act had validated the levy of taxes by eleven States upto 04.04.1991. That the Validation Act fictionally held that the Parliament had in fact imposed the cess and other taxes on minerals by keeping those provisions of State Act, which had been struck-down, alive till 04.04.1991. Although, Parliament never in fact re-enacted the eleven Acts mentioned in the Schedule to the Validation Act but it merely provided legislative competence for those Acts which related to cesses or taxes on minerals. This was done owing to the s of this Court in India Cement and Orissa Cement that had led the to a situation that required a Validation Act to save the State from refunding the incompetent levies already collected. This was to allay the apprehension of the State Government that the incompetent levies already collected would have to be refunded. Therefore, Parliament, being also of the same opinion, through a legislative device of providing legislative competence in respect of the certain provisions of the States’ laws and by validating the levies which could be collected up to 04.04.1991 i.e. the date on which this Court delivered the in Orissa Cement case, had enacted the Validation Act. 26.11 The controversy, however, revolved on the expression “imposition and collection” under Section 2(1) of the Validation Act. Whether it related to only imposition and collection already made under certain State laws or conferred further right of imposition and collection of cesses on the minerals extracted upto 04.04.1991.