(4) Every company shall disclose in its profit and loss account any amount or amounts contributed by it to any political party or for any political purpose to any person during the financial year to which that account relates, giving particulars of the total amount contributed and the name of the party or person to which or to whom such amount has been contributed. (5) If a company makes any contribution in contravention of the provisions of this section- (a) the company shall be punishable with fine which may extend to three times the amount so contributed; and (b) every officer of the company who is in default shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years and shall also be liable to fine. [2024] 2 S.C.R. 455 Association for Democratic Reforms & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. made more stringent. A fine extendable to three times the amount contributed could be imposed, and every officer of the company who was in default of the provision was punishable for a term which could extend to three years and be liable for fine. Section 182 of the Companies Act 2013 substantively incorporated the provisions of Section 293-A of the 1956 Act, as amended in 1985. Section 182 enables a company to contribute any amount directly or indirectly to any political party. The provision bars a Government company and a company which has been in existence for less than three financial years from contributing to a political party. The provisos to the provision prescribe the following two conditions: a. The aggregate of the amount contributed by the company in any financial year shall not exceed seven and a half per cent of its average net profits during the three immediately preceding financial years;ա and b. A contribution can be made only if the Board of Directors issues a resolution authorizing the contribution at a meeting. Such a resolution shall, subject to the other provisions of the Section, be deemed to be a justification in law for the making and acceptance of the contribution authorized by the Board." Sub-section (3) of Section 182 mandates every company to disclose in its profit and loss account any amount contributed by it to any political party during the financial year with specific particulars of the total amount contributed along with the name of the political party to which the contribution was made. Section 182 of the Companies Act 2013 made two modifications from Section 293-A of the Companies Act 1956: (a) the cap on the contributions which can be made by companies was increased from 5 % to 7.5% of their average net profits; and (b) more stringent consequences for violation of were imposed. The fine was extendable to five times (instead of three times prescribed in the earlier provision) of the contribution. 10 Companies Act, First proviso to Section 182(1). 11 Companies Act, second proviso to Section 182(1) 456 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 10. The Finance Act 2017 made three changes to Section 182 of the Companies Act: a.