16.2 Thus, Article 254 of the Constitution applies the doctrine of repugnancy in the context of the legislative subjects which are enumerated in List III or the Concurrent List. While applying the principles of repugnancy under Article 254, a sine qua non is to identify the conflict between the laws made by the Parliament and the laws made by the State Legislature. The conflict between the said laws is the basis for the application of Article 254. The conflict could be direct when both the laws cannot operate together or it could be indirect when the State law entrenches upon a Parliamentary or Central law. But when laws made by the Parliament or the State Legislature can be implemented without there being any conflict, the principle of repugnancy would not apply inasmuch as there would be no contrary results owing to the applicability of both sets of laws. In other words, there cannot be a situation where obeying the State laws would result in disobeying the Parliamentary laws. Thus, when laws are made under an Entry in List III or the Concurrent List by both the Parliament as well as by the State Legislature, the Court must first ascertain whether the two sets of laws can operate harmoniously, if not, whether harmonious interpretation could be given to the said laws so as to avoid a conflict between the two. It is only when there is a conflict between the two sets of laws inasmuch as the State laws would be abridging the Parliamentary law, in such a case, the doctrine of Parliamentary supremacy would apply i.e. when a harmonious interpretation is not possible. Even if the two laws overlap, if they are complimentary to each other, in such a case, there would be no application of the principle of Parliamentary supremacy. Thus, when there is absolute [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2151 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons inconsistency between the two sets of laws, and they are not reconcilable then, the principle of Parliamentary supremacy would apply in the context of repugnancy. 16.3 The next question that would arise is, whether, the principle of repugnancy in Article 254 of the Constitution could have a wider ramification inasmuch as even in the absence of there being two sets of laws which have been made by the Parliament and by the State Legislature but owing to the nature of the law that the Parliament has made, the State Legislature is incompetent in making a law on the same subject. In other words, whether a law enacted by the Parliament can prevent a law being made by the State Legislature on the same subject on the premise that the field has been occupied by the Parliamentary law. This is expressed in what is known as the doctrine of occupied field. By this, it would mean that the law enacted by the Parliament has occupied the field in its entirety and consequently, the States have no legislative competence to make a law on the very same aspect.