In such circumstances, though the action on the part of the first respondent who suffered Annexure P-18 , in bringing on record its case and contentions to resist the case and contentions of the complainants, cannot be appreciated, the contention of the appellants based on the same became inconsequential. As stated earlier, in view of Annexure P-18 , we are also not going to advert to any case, claims or contentions of the first respondent raised in its reply and objection filed in this proceeding, except to the legally permissible limit, in case any such material is available on record. We have already concurred with the decision of the Karnataka High Court in Nalini Sunder’s case (supra) that a party could not make out a case on the basis of evidence for which he/she had laid no foundation in the pleadings. In the absence of a written statement, naturally, there can be no pleadings, in the case, for the first respondent in the eyes of law. Though the first respondent participated in the proceeding before the NCDRC, it could not bring-forth anything admissible in view of the impact of forfeiture under Annexure P-18 . 21. The discussion as above would lead to the last question as to whether the impugned invites interference on any other ground. The core contention of the appellants that while passing the impugned , NCDRC failed to consider the relevance and impact of Clause 6.1 of the Construction Agreement. No doubt, it is a matter that requires consideration. Clause 6 of the said Construction Agreement reads thus: - [2024] 7 S.C.R. 835 Kaushik Narsinhbhai Patel & Ors. v. M/s S.J.R. Prime Corporation Private Limited “6) COMPLETION & DELIVERY OF POSSESSION: 6.1) The possession of the Schedule ‘C’ apartment in Schedule ‘A’ Property will be delivered by the Second Party to the First Party after completion of construction as far as possible on or before the month of March year 2014 with Six months grace period additionally. 6.2) …. 6.3) In case of delay in delivery of the apartment for reasons other than what is stated above, the Second Party is entitled to a grace period of Six months and if the delay persists, the Second Party shall pay the First Party damages at Rs. 2/- (Rupees Two Only) per Sq. Ft. super built up area per month of delay of the Schedule ‘C’ Apartment till delivery, provided the First Party has/ have paid all the amounts payable as per this Agreement and within the stipulated period and has not violated any of the terms of this agreement and Agreement to Sell….” 22. A perusal of Clause 6.1 of the Construction Agreement would reveal that it specifically mentions the promised date for handing over the possession viz., the due date for handing over possession as ‘on or before March, 2014’. True that in terms of Clause 6.1, additionally, six months grace period is available to the first respondent-builder. Thus, going by the terms of Construction Agreement, the due date for handing over possession of flats could have been, rather should have been fixed only in terms of Clause 6.1 of the said Agreement.