38. One another preliminary objection raised by the appellant was that the claim sought to be referred to arbitration is a deadwood claim and thus the application for appointment of arbitrator ought to have been rejected at the outset by the High Court. It is clear from the facts as discussed in the preceding paragraphs that the notice invoking arbitration was sent by the respondent to the appellant on 02.03.2020 and the petition seeking appointment of arbitrator under Section 11(6) of the Act, 1996 was filed before the High Court on 25.10.2021. Thus, the arbitration petition was filed before the High Court much prior to the expiry of the limitation period of three years. Further, the notice invoking arbitration was also sent by the respondent well within time from the date of the accrual of the cause of action. Considered thus, it cannot, by any stretch of imagination, be said that 862 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the claim is a deadwood claim or the arbitration application before the High Court was time-barred. 39. Having rejected the aforesaid two preliminary objections raised by the appellant, the question that now remains to be examined is whether, in the facts of the present case, the respondent could have invoked arbitration after having signed the consent letter dated 24.12.2018 and the advance discharge voucher dated 04.01.2019. i. Whether the execution of a discharge voucher towards the full and final settlement between the parties would operate as a bar to invoke arbitration? 40. A contract between parties can come to an end by the performance thereof by both the parties, that is, by the fulfilment of all the obligations in terms of the original contract. This is referred to as discharge by performance. Alternatively, the contract may also be discharged by substitution of certain new obligations in place of the obligations contained in the original contract, and subsequent performance of the substituted obligations. The substituted obligations are referred to as ‘accord’ and the discharge of the substituted obligations is referred to as ‘satisfaction’. It is referred to as discharge by “accord and satisfaction” or by “full and final settlement” in common parlance. 41. A written confirmation of discharge by “accord and satisfaction” can also be in the form of a full and final discharge voucher or a No-Dues or a No-Claims Certificate issued by one of the parties acknowledging that there are no outstanding claims and that such a party has received the full and final payment to its satisfaction. In the insurance sector, the general practice is that the insurer obtains undated discharge vouchers from the insured in advance by making the insured to sign on dotted lines before processing the payment in respect of the claims of the insured. 42. The concept of discharge of a contract by “accord and satisfaction” is embodied in Section 63 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872, which provides that the promisee may, inter alia, accept any substituted obligation in place of the original promise made to him, and such acceptance on the part of the promisee would amount to the discharge of the contract.