However, since the material was found in a broken phone, it is likely that the failure to delete, destroy or report the same was attributable to the inability of ‘A’ to operate the broken mobile rather than the intent to share or transmit, thus, no offence would be made out under Section 15(1) of the POCSO. This is because, the manner in which the omission has occurred is not sufficiently indicative of the intent to share or transmit. Thus, no offence could be said to have been constituted under Section 15 sub-section (1) of the POCSO. 99. Take for instance, certain child pornographic material was found stored in the mobile phone of ‘A’ but this time, the said material had found its way in the device due to an automatic download of media of which ‘A’ had no knowledge whatsoever. Here although there is possession or storage of such material, yet the omission to delete, destroy or report is clearly shown and established by ‘A’ that it was due to lack of knowledge about the existence of such material on his parts. Here the manner in which the omission has occurred is not sufficiently indicative of the intent to share or transmit, thus no offence could be said to have been made out under Section 15(1) of the POCSO. 100. Take a case where certain child pornographic material was found stored in the mobile phone of ‘A’ but this time in addition to the aforesaid material few chats were also recovered wherein ‘A’ told his friend ‘B’ that he had some child pornographic material which he could share with him. Here, since there is additional material to show that ‘A’ had taken some overt steps in to propagate the said material, he would be liable under Section 15(2) of the POCSO. 226 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 101. For another illustration, say for example, again certain child pornographic material was found stored in the mobile phone of ‘A’ but this time ‘A’ creates a chat group consisting of several of his friends, and sends a message therein stating that he has some child pornographic material which he would forward on the group. Here, since there is additional material to show that ‘A’ had taken some overt steps in to distribute the said material, he would be liable under Section 15(2) of the POCSO. 102. Conversely, say ‘A’ who has certain child pornographic material in his phone, again creates a group consisting of several of his friends, but this time he sends a message stating that he has some child pornographic material which he would send in exchange of some amount of money. Here, since there is additional material to show that ‘A’ had taken some overt steps in respect of the said material for some monetary gain, he would now be liable under Section 15(3) of the POCSO instead. 103. We may at the cost of repetition clarify that there may be situations where the possession or storage of the pornographic material is found to be in a such a manner that the same by itself would be indicative of an intention to either transmit, display, propagate or distribute such material or that it was done in lieu or expectation of any gain.