The High Court, therefore, was not right in protecting the lease created in favour of the respondent by Mohammed Haji who was a decree-holder auction-purchaser at the sale in execution of the ex parte decree which was subsequently set aside.” 646 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 18. The in Padanathil Rugmini Amma (supra), completely answers the argument raised by Mr. K. Parameshwar, learned counsel for respondent no. 3 who has purchased the property from decree holder on 17.07.2009 with full knowledge of pending restitution proceedings as the same is contained in the recital in para 4 of the sale deed. Thus, the purchaser or the assignee from the decree holder is not entitled to object restitution on the ground that he is a bona fide purchaser. 19. We shall now deal with the arguments raised by Mr. Navare, learned senior counsel that the valuation of the attached properties as shown in the attachment panchanama cannot be the basis to hold that the property of the debtor valued much more than the decretal sum has been sold in execution. According to him, Rule 54 of XXI CPC does not contemplate valuation at the time of attachment. This argument is raised in answer to court’s query that when only a sum of Rs. 27,694/- was to be realised why all the properties i.e. three houses approximately valued at Rs. 25,700/-, 9 H 55 Are land valued at Rs. 75,000/- and third property admeasuring 0 H 48 Are valued at Rs. 5,000/- were put to auction. 20. The above stated three properties were attached under XXI Rule 54 CPC and thereafter the Executing Court vide its dated 22.10.1982 (Annexure P/4) issued sale notice under XXI Rule 66 CPC for sale of the attached property by public auction. The object of attachment of immovable property in course of execution of decree is for realisation of the decretal amount by way of the sale of the attached property under XXI Rule 66 CPC. The said rule ( XXI Rule 66 CPC) provides for proclamation of sale by public auction. Sub-rule (2) of Rule 66 CPC needs reference which is reproduced hereinbelow: “(2) Such proclamation shall be draw up after notice to the decree-holder and the -debtor and shall state the time and place of sale, and specify as fairly and accurately as possible- (a) the property to be sold or, where a part of the property would be sufficient to satisfy the decree, such part; (b) the revenue assessed upon the estate or part of the State, where the property to be sold is an interest in [2024] 6 S.C.R. 647 Bhikchand S/o Dhondiram Mutha (Deceased) Through Lrs. v. Shamabai Dhanraj Gugale (Deceased) Through Lrs. an estate or in part of an estate paying revenue to the Government; (c) any incumbrance to which the property is liable; (d) the amount for the recovery of which the sale is ed; and (e) every other thing which the Court considers material for a purchaser to know in to judge of the nature and value of the property: Provided that where notice of the date for settling the terms of the proclamation has been given to the judgement- debtor by means of an under rule 54, it shall not be necessary to give notice under this rule to the - debtor unless the Court otherwise directs: Provided further that nothing in this rule shall be construed as requiring the Court to enter in the proclamation of sale its own estimate of the value of the property, but the proclamation shall include the estimate, if any, given, by either or both of the parties.” 21.