Article 39 reads as under: 24 Granville austin, the indian cOnstitutiOn: cOrnerstOne Of a natiOn (Oxford University Press, New Delhi, Second Impression 2000), Pg. 50. 276 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “39. Certain principles of policy to be followed by the State. – The State shall, in particular, direct its policy towards securing— (a) that the citizens, men and women equally, have the right to an adequate means of livelihood; (b) that the ownership and control of the material resources of the community are so distributed as best to subserve the common good; (c) that the operation of the economic system does not result in the concentration of wealth and means of production to the common detriment; (d) that there is equal pay for equal work for both men and women; (e) that the health and strength of workers, men and women, and the tender age of children are not abused and that citizens are not forced by economic necessity to enter avocations unsuited to their age or strength; (f) that children are given opportunities and facilities to develop in a healthy manner and in conditions of freedom and dignity and that childhood and youth are protected against exploitation and against moral and material abandonment.” Not just the above provisions, but several other provisions in the Directive Principles are based on socialist philosophy of a welfare State. These are: Article 39A – Equal justice and free legal aid.25 Article 41 – Right to work, to education and to public assistance in certain cases. Article 42 – Provision for just and humane conditions of work and maternity relief. Article 43 – Living wage, etc., for workers. 25 Inserted by s.8 of the Constitution (Forty-Second Amendment) Act, 1976. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 277 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. Article 43A - Participation of workers in management of industries.26 Article 47 – Duty of the State to raise the level of nutrition and the standard of living and to improve public health. Directive Principles are non-justiciable and therefore Courts cannot direct an authority to implement any of the Directive Principles contained in Part IV of the Constitution, unlike in Part III, the Fundamental Rights. But then should the Courts come in the way of the State which brings a law in furtherance of the Directive Principles? Is the State not following its charter of instructions which are “fundamental in the governance of the Country”? In my opinion, since the directive principles are fundamental in the governance of the Country, the Courts should best apply restraint, unless such implementation is destroying the core principles of the Constitution. Directive Principles of State Policy lay down the goals which can only be achieved in a welfare economy. The philosophy behind Directive Principles is the welfare of the community, that is removal of poverty, inequality and ensuring fair distribution of wealth. These are some of its governing features. It has never been its aim to generate profit and wealth for individuals.