13, Chinna Vaikkal Street, Puducherry. 6. Several public witnesses turned hostile and did not support the prosecution case. This includes Arumugam (PW-20), the grandfather of the deceased Rajini @ Rajinikanth, who had filed the ‘missing man’ complaint for Rajini @ Rajinikanth, vide Diary No. 80 of 2008. However, Arumugam (PW-20) did accept that his son, Rajaram, who was living abroad had come home when he was murdered on 21.04.2008. Arumugam (PW-20) also accepts that his grandson Rajini @ Rajinikanth had not attended crematorial rites of his father Rajaram and was missing. 7. Narayanasamy (PW-12), then head constable, PS Odiansalai, has testified that he had received the oral complaint of Rajaram on 20.04.2008, in connection with the scattered articles in his house, and the missing motorcycle. Rajaram had assumed that his son Rajini @ Rajinikanth could have taken it away. 8. Kaniyakumaran (PW-10), involved in real estate business, did not specifically implicate the appellant – Perumal Raja @ Perumal, but has accepted that Punitha (PW-3), a relative of the deceased Rajini @ Rajinikanth, had tried to sell the property in Kurumbapet. Reliance can be also placed on the documentary evidence to establish that the property in question in the name of Rajaram was dealt with by Porkilai (PW-4), mother of the appellant – Perumal Raja @ Perumal. In support, the following documents are relied: (i) sale deed in favour of Rajaram executed on 26.06.1990 (Exhibit P-66); [2024] 1 S.C.R. 97 PERUMAL RAJA @ PERUMAL v. STATE, REP. BY INSPECTOR OF POLICE (ii) sale agreement between Porkilai (PW-4) and accused no.5 - Ravi @ Ravichandran executed on May, 2007 (Exhibit P-66); (iii) release deed in favour of Rajaram by Porkilai (PW-4), executed on 27.06.1990 (Exhibit P-68); (iv) sale agreement in favour of Thangaveni Ammal, mother of Rajaram, executed on 19.08.1981 (Exhibit P-69). 9. Chinta Kodanda Rao (PW-30), Inspector of Police, PS Grand Bazaar, the investigating officer in FIR No. 204 of 2008 relating to the murder of Rajaram by unknown persons, has testified on the disclosure statement made by the appellant – Perumal Raja @ Perumal (Exhibit P-37). The relevant portion of the disclosure statement reads: “…myself and xxx pull Rajni’s xxx, put him in the sump tank near the bathroom and closed it… …took xxx, Iron box, Home theatre, xxx, xxx, rental documents of my uncle’s house at Chittankudi, Hero Honda CD Dawn motorcycle, RC book and key, Rajini’s passport book, Rajini’s passport size photo, birth registration of grandmother, family ration card of uncle and the copy of documents written in English, bunch of keys of the house and my uncle Ranjith’s notebook, xxx xxx xxx, took Hero Honda CD Dawn motorbike of my uncle Rajaram…..one bag was put by Mohan xxx xxx xxx the house of Mohan nearby to the Tollgate of Ariyankuppam, kept 2 bags in Mohan’s house… …I, immediately, went to N (name withheld) house and gave him document, ration card, bunch of keys, Rajini’s passport, by keeping them in Ranjith notebook and stated to keep them safe… …I took the already kept 3 sack bags, rope, curry knife, showed the sump tank to xxx.