In such a case, where an FIR is lodged clearly with a view to spite the other party because of a private and personal grudge and to enmesh the other party in long and arduous criminal proceedings, the court may take a view that it amounts to an abuse of the process of law in the facts and circumstances of that case”. Kishan Singh (supra) was recently referred to and followed in Rohtash & Anr. v. State of Haryana.14 19. That apart, these proceedings have been initiated in the face of the Separation Agreement entered into by the parties to the marriage at the time of dissolution, that too, as already recorded supra without any express authorization by the daughter of the complainant. It categorically records as under: “3. … e. Personal Belongings, Furniture & Household Goods: The parties have agreed upon a division of their furniture, furnishings, household goods, appliances, equipment, silverware, china, glassware, books, works of art and other household and personal property items presently held by one or both of the parties. Each party hereby relinquishes all right, title and interest in and to all household goods, furniture and personal properties awarded to the other party.” Clause 6 of the Separation Agreement is of import in the present controversy: “6. RELEASES Each of the parties hereto does hereby release and discharge the other from any and all other claims, causes of action whether at law or in equity, dower, both in real and personal property, both under the statutes and common law, and all other charges of every kind, character or nature which either of the parties does now or might have against 14 [2019] 16 SCR 861 : (2019) 10 SCC 554 752 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the other arising in any manner whatsoever, except as are herein specifically reserved to the parties, or as may be derived by either party to effectuate and maintain the terms of this Agreement.” Further, clause 8 of the Separation Agreement records the full division of the property between the parties in the following terms: “8. FULL DIVISION OF PROPERTY The parties represent to the Court that this Agreement fully disposes and divides all the marital property of the parties and that there is no further property which this Court must divide. Further, the parties represent and warrant that they have each disclosed to the other all of their respective property interests in their respective Statement of Property filed in this cause.” 20. In view of the above, we also hold that the charge under Section 6 of the Dowry Prohibition Act, is not made out and therefore, fails. Consequently, the only conclusion that can be drawn is that the proceedings initiated by the complainant (CC No.1369/2022) against the present appellants have to be quashed and set aside. Any action commenced as a result thereof is bad in law. The questions raised in this appeal are answered accordingly. 21. The appeal is allowed in the above terms.