5. As both Houses of the State Legislature were not in session and the Governor of Maharashtra was satisfied that circumstances existed which rendered it necessary for him to take immediate action to make a law, for the purposes aforesaid, the Maharashtra Temporary Extension of Period for Submitting Validity Certificate (for certain elections to Village Panchayats, Zilla Parishads and Panchayat Samitis) Ordinance, 2023 (Mah. Ord. VI of 2023), was promulgated by the Governor of Maharashtra on the 10th July 2023. 6. The Bill is intended to replace the said Ordinance by an Act of the State Legislature.” (emphasis supplied) 31. As would be evident, this Temporary Extension Act was enacted since the Scrutiny Committees were overburdened with the work of verification of Caste Certificates and the elected members were facing 188 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports difficulties in obtaining the Validity Certificates within the prescribed time. It is aimed to protect the applicants whose applications are still pending before the Scrutiny Committee. The idea was that such elected candidates ought not to be deprived merely because of non- issuance of Validity Certificates when the applications are still pending. Section 3 begins with a non obstante clause. It applies to elections held on or after the 1st January, 2021 and till 10.07.2023, the date of commencement of the Temporary Extension Act, 2023. It clearly provides that it covers the cases of persons who have applied to the Scrutiny Committee for verification of his Caste Certificate before the date of filing of the nomination papers and who are elected on the reserved seat; and whose applications are pending before the Scrutiny Committee on the date of commencement of the Act. It is mandated that they can produce the certificate within twelve months from the date of commencement of the Temporary Extension Act, 2023 i.e. till 09.07.2024. Sub-clause (b) states that a person whose election has been terminated or deemed to have been terminated or a person who is disqualified for being a Member or Sarpanch for not submitting the Validity Certificate within the period specified in the sections mentioned above (10-1A and 30-1A), shall be deemed to be and shall be continued to be a member or Sarpanch and shall not be disqualified till the period of twelve months. Sub-section (2) further clearly states that the provisions of sub-section (1) shall not apply where the member whose application of Validity Certificate had been rejected by the Scrutiny Committee. Section 4 states that all legal proceedings pending immediately before the date of commencement of the Act, before any court or authority relating to disqualification of a member, for not submitting the Validity Certificate where extension of period for submission is granted under the present Act was to abate. 32. The High Court, in the impugned , has recorded the following findings in its operative portion: “32. In this particular case, Sudhir’s application for a Validity Certificate was rejected on 1st April 2021. The argument that this rejection is technical is totally irrelevant.