C. Judicial discipline – Preliminary objection to reference – Whether two-Judge Bench of Supreme Court in Anjuman- e-Rahmaniya could not have referred the correctness of the decision rendered by the Constitution Bench in Azeez Basha directly to a Bench of seven Judges. Held [per Dr D Y Chandrachud, CJI (for himself, Sanjiv Khanna, J.B. Pardiwala and Manoj Misra, JJ. )]: 1. In Central Board of Dawoodi Bohra Community, a Constitution Bench discussed the legal precepts which apply to s of reference and reiterated the position of law as below:- a. Decisions of this Court rendered by a Bench of larger strength are binding on Benches of a less or equal strength; b. If a Bench of lower strength is doubtful about the correctness of a delivered by a Bench of larger strength, it cannot disagree or dissent from the view taken by the larger Bench – In case of doubt, it can invite the attention of the Chief Justice of India to its opinion and request the Chief Justice to list the matter before a Bench, the strength of which is greater than that which delivered the which has been doubted; c. The correctness of the view taken by any Bench can only be doubted by a Bench of equal strength – The matter will then be placed for hearing before a Bench of greater strength; d. There are two exceptions to the rules: i. The discretion of the Chief Justice is not bound by the rules – As the master of the roster, the Chief Justice may list any case before any Bench of any strength; ii. Despite the rules, if a particular case has come up for hearing before a Bench of larger strength and that Bench is of the opinion that the of the Bench of lower strength requires reconsideration or correction, or is otherwise doubtful of its correctness, it may dispense with the need for a [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1663 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. reference in the terms described above or an of the Chief Justice and hear the matter for reasons given by it. [Para 37] 2. The position of law laid down in Central Board of Dawoodi Bohra Community is correct – Decisions of a larger Bench are binding precedent, and judicial discipline and propriety dictate that Benches of lower strength must adhere to such decisions – This will also avoid inconsistencies in the development of law – Questions concerning the correctness of s must ordinarily be referred only by a Bench which is equal in strength to the Bench whose is doubted – We also agree with the two exceptions to this rule, as detailed by this Court in Central Board of Dawoodi Bohra Community – They must remain exceptions and not transmogrify into the rule itself. [Para 38] 3. The three issues which required an authoritative pronouncement in Anjuman-e-Rahmaniya, were not directly a point of contention in Azeez Basha – However, the decision would have a bearing on them – Doubting the correctness of the opinion in Azeez Basha, without disagreeing with it, the two-Judge Bench requested that the matter may be placed before the Chief Justice of India for being heard by a Bench of seven Judges – This falls within the permissible limits laid down in Central Board of Dawoodi Bohra Community – Further, the Solicitor General has also stated that he is not pressing the Union’s preliminary objection – The of reference dated 12 February 2019 (wherein a three-Judge Bench of this Court observed that the correctness of the question arising from the decision in Azeez Basha was unanswered, and then referred the matter to a seven-Judge Bench), too, noted that although a three-Judge Bench could not ordinarily refer a case directly to a seven-Judge Bench, it was doing so in this case because the question was already referred to a Bench of seven Judges but was not answered.