[Para 192(d)] 4. The reference in Anjuman to a seven-judge bench for the reconsideration of the five-judge decision in Azeez Basha is bad in law and ought to be set aside. [Para 192(e)] Held [per Dipankar Datta, J. ]: 1.1. It has been considered uniformly to be an act of breach of judicial propriety and discipline if a bench of lesser strength [of 2 (two) Judges] casts doubt in respect of a decision rendered by a bench of greater strength [of 5 (five Judges] and a request is made to the Chief Justice of India to constitute a still larger Bench [of 7 (seven Judges] – This concept was extensively ratiocinated in Central Board of Dawoodi Bohra Community vs. State of Maharashtra. [Para 24] 1.2. If “doubting the correctness of the opinion in Azeez Basha, without disagreeing with it” could permit the bench in Anjuman- e-Rahmania to request the Chief Justice of India to place the matter for being heard by a bench of 7 (seven) Judges and such a course of action were held to be permissible and within the limits of Central Board of Dawoodi Bohra Community, as proposed in the majority opinion - I am afraid, tomorrow, a bench of 2 (two) Judges, referring to opinions of jurists [as in Anjuman-e-Rahmania] could well doubt the ‘basic structure’ doctrine and request the Chief Justice of India to constitute a bench of 15 (fifteen) Judges – The 1666 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports reasoning in the majority opinion, with due respect, appears to be based on an incomplete reading of paragraph 12(2) of Central Board of Dawoodi Bohra Community – Though the second sentence of the said paragraph is a bit ambiguous, but the same read harmoniously with the other sentences would lead to the inevitable conclusion that even in case of a doubt being expressed by a bench of 2 (two) Judges in respect of the ratio laid down by a bench of 5 (five) Judges, the case on a reference being made (with sufficient reasons) ought to be first placed before a bench of 3 (three) Judges, and not to a bench of either 5 (five) or 7 (seven) Judges – If, indeed, the proposed view in the majority opinion were accepted, all the precedents referred to above would stand overruled and a legal principle, which hitherto no bench of this Court did, would be laid down and, in the process, the floodgates for unmeritorious references opened – That would be an incorrect and improper approach – Hence, the of reference in Anjuman-e-Rahmania must be regarded as completely flawed and non-est. [Para 28] 2. The essence of the law laid down in State of Kerala vs. Very Rev. Mother Provincial, which is a decision of the Constitution Bench of 6 (six) Judges of this Court rendered more than half a century back, and has never been doubted by any subsequent bench, is that the minority institution should have been established for the benefit of a minority community by a member of that community – Attention of the bench of 2 (two) Judges in Anjuman-e-Rahmania was not invited to this and one is left to wonder whether the reference would have at all been made if Very Rev.