417 In Re: Patanjali Ayurved Ltd. Through Its Mangg. Dir., Acharya Balkrishna & Baba Ramdev in The Matter of: Indian Medical Asso. and another v. Union of India and others the exemption applications on 30th March, 2024, they annexed tickets purportedly purchased by their travel agents for purposes of travelling abroad. Strangely enough, the said documents were issued the day after the aforesaid affidavits were sworn by them, i.e. on 31st March, 2024. 3. When confronted with the said position on the last date of hearing, learned Senior counsel appearing for the respondents No. 5 and 7 – proposed contemnors had sought time to obtain clarifications. It has now been stated in the latest affidavits filed by the proposed-contemnors that admittedly, photocopies of the tickets were issued on a date after the affidavits were sworn and the said documents were annexed with the affidavits that were sworn on 30th March, 2024 and filed on 31st March, 2024. Fact remains that on the date when the affidavits were sworn, there were no such tickets issued. It is apparent that the respondents were trying to escape appearing personally before this Court in these proceedings, which is most unacceptable.” (emphasis added) J. PROCEEDINGS DATED 16TH APRIL, 2024 16. On 16th April, 2024, both the proposed contemnors were present in Court and after interacting with them, the following was passed: “1. Mr. Mukul Rohatgi, learned Senior counsel appearing for the proposed Contemnors No.5 to 7 submits that to redeem themselves and demonstrate their bona fides, they propose to take some steps unilaterally. He requests one week’s time to revert back on the aforesaid aspect. 2. This Court has interacted with the proposed Contemnors No.6 and 7 for some time and have heard their submissions. Both of them have tendered their unqualified apology for having called a press conference immediately after an was passed by this Court on 21st November, 2023 and for continuing to issue misleading advertisements and making derogatory statements in respect of other systems of 418 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports treatment. They seek to assure this Court that they will be careful in future and not violate the s of the Court or the undertaking given to the Court or violate the provisions of law. 3. This aspect shall be considered on the next date. 4. At the request of the proposed Contemnors No.5 to 7, list on 23rd April, 2024 at the top of the Board. The proposed contemnors shall remain present on the next date of hearing.” (emphasis added) 17. This was followed by an affidavit filed by Acharya Balkrishna on 24th April, 2024 stating inter alia as follows : “2. That the Deponent herein in the affidavit filed on 06.04.2024, undertook to ensure that no further offending advertisements shall be issued as directed by this Hon’ble Court. 3. Further, I again tender my unconditional apology for the infraction of dated 21.11.2023, and I regret that the advertisements were issued and I seek pardon of this Hon’ble Court.