The public interests demand that criminal justice should be swift and sure; that the guilty should be punished while the events are still fresh in the public mind and that the innocent should be absolved as early as is consistent with a fair and impartial trial. Another reason is that it is undesirable to let things slide till memories have grown too dim to trust. This, however, is not a hard-and-fast rule. Special considerations obtaining in any particular case might make some other course more expedient and just. For example, the civil case or the other criminal proceeding may be so near its end as to make it inexpedient to stay it in to give precedence to a prosecution ed under Section 476. But in this case we are of the view that the civil suits should be stayed till the criminal proceedings have finished.” (Emphasis Supplied) 11. The position as per Premshanker (supra) is that sentence and damages would be excluded from the conflict of decisions in civil and criminal jurisdictions of the Courts. Therefore, in the present case, considering that the Court in criminal jurisdiction has imposed 36 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports both sentence and damages, the ratio of the above-referred decision dictates that the Court in criminal jurisdiction would be bound by the civil Court having declared the cheque, the subject matter of dispute, to be only for the purposes of security. 12. In that view of the matter, the criminal proceedings resulting from the cheque being returned unrealised due to the closure of the account would be unsustainable in law and, therefore, are to be quashed and set aside. Resultantly, the damages as imposed by the Courts below must be returned to the appellant herein forthwith. 13. The appeal is allowed in the aforesaid terms. Hence, the and passed by Additional Sessions Judge, Thrissur, in Criminal Appeal 673 of 2007, which upheld the conviction, as handed down by the learned Judicial First Class Magistrate in CC No. 51 of 2003, which came to affirmed by the High Court of Kerela in Crl.R.P.No.1111 of 2011 is quashed and set aside. Pending application(s), if any, shall stand disposed of. Headnotes prepared by: Ankit Gyan Result of the case: Appeal allowed.