2 to 4 were sentenced to imprisonment. 1 [2020] 10 SCR 791 : (2021) 4 SCC 713 [2024] 3 S.C.R. 979 Avitel Post Studioz Limited & Ors. v. HSBC PI Holdings (Mauritius) Limited (Previously Named Hpeif Holdings 1 Limited) Submissions 6. According to the appellants, the Presiding Arbitrator, Mr. Christopher Lau of the three-member Arbitral Tribunal, had failed to make a full and frank disclosure of material facts and circumstances concerning conflict of interest and therefore the Award rendered by the Tribunal presided by Mr. Lau cannot be enforced as it is against public policy in terms of Section 48(2)(b)of the Indian Arbitration Act. 7. The counsel for the appellants refers to the IBA Guidelines on Conflict of Interest in International Arbitration, 2004 (“IBA Guidelines”) along with the Red, Orange and Green lists appended thereto covering matters concerning disclosure and conflict of interest to argue that the High Court ought to have refused enforcement of the Award. The specific contention is that the Presiding Arbitrator failed to disclose his conflict of interest to adjudicate the dispute. According to the Award Debtors the independence and impartiality of the Presiding Arbitrator was compromised, as per General Standard 3 of the IBA Guidelines. 8. On the other hand, learned counsel for the respondent (Award Holder) would submit that the concerned party here is HSBC PI Holdings (Mauritius) Limited, which is a subsidiary of HSBC Holdings PLC (United Kingdom). The other subsidiary is HSBC (Singapore) Nominees Pte Ltd. which is alleged to have a contractual association with Wing Tai. The HSBC (Singapore) held 6.29% of Wing Tai’s equity capital on a trustee/nominee basis, as of 15.09.2014. But the said Wing Tai has no relationship with the Award Holder and is not part of the HSBC Group. 9. Insofar as the Presiding Arbitrator Mr. Christopher Lau is concerned, the respondent submits that he has been an independent non- executive Director of Wing Tai since 28.10.2013 and also the Chairman of the Audit and the Risk Committee of Wing Tai. But Mr. Lau is not an employee of Wing Tai and therefore it is contended that it is wrong to say that he cannot discharge responsibility as an independent arbitrator or was incapacitated in any manner, in rendering the final Award dated 27.09.2014. 10. Initially, the Award Holders argued before the High Court that bias could not be raised under the concept of “public policy of India”. However, later on, submissions were made to demonstrate that 980 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports even if it is accepted for the sake of argument that the issue could be raised at the stage of enforcement, no disclosure was required on the part of the arbitrator. 11. Before this Court, the appellants attempted to raise an additional challenge to the award under Section 48(1)(b) of the Indian Arbitration Act on account of ‘inability to present their case’. 12. Another ground mentioned in the SLP was to consider the effect of the dictum of the five-judge bench of this Court in NN Global Mercantile Private Ltd. v M/s Indo Unique Flame Ltd2 (for short “NN Global”) delivered on 25.04.2023 as per which the Share Subscription Agreement being insufficiently stamped would be unenforceable in India.