More particularly, the issue is whether Rule 63(iii) of the Assam Police Manual (for brevity, ‘the Manual’), which prescribes that such assessment should be initiated by the Deputy Commissioner concerned, as the ‘Reporting Authority’, is lawful. The specific ground successfully urged before the High Court by the respondents herein, viz., IPS Officers working as SPs in the State of Assam, is that this Rule is violative of Section 14(2) of the Assam Police Act, 2007, (for brevity, ‘the Act of 2007’). 4. It would be apposite at this stage to note the tone and tenor of the relevant statutory provisions. Rule 63(iii) of the Manual, in the context of initiation of the ACR/APAR of a SP of a district, reads as follows: ‘(iii) Superintendent of Police - the report should be initiated by Deputy Commissioner, reviewed by the Deputy Inspector General of Police i/c Range and sent to the Commissioner of Division. The Commissioner of Division will send the same with his opinion to the Inspector General of Police for acceptance. [2024] 1 S.C.R. 477 The State of Assam and Others v. Binod Kumar and Others The Inspector General of Police shall refer the report to the Deputy Inspector General of Police, S.B., for recording his remarks regarding performance of the Superintendent of Police of the District in subjects pertaining to the S.B.’ Section 14 of the Act of 2007 reads thus: ‘14. Relationship of Superintendent of Police with District Magistrates - (1) The administration of the Police throughout the local jurisdiction of the Magistrate is vested in the Superintendent of Police under the general control and direction of the Deputy Commissioner as District Magistrate. The latter is responsible for keeping peace and maintenance of law and in a district and may employ the police as he thinks best for the purpose. (2) The Deputy Commissioner as District (sic.) Magistrate has however, no authority to interfere in the internal organization and discipline of the Police force, but it is his duty to bring to the notice of the Superintendent of Police, all cases in which the conduct of and qualification of Police Officer affect the general administration of a district.’ 5. As IPS Officers belong to an ‘All India Service’, it would be pertinent to note the provisions of the All India Services (Confidential Rolls) Rules, 1970 (for brevity, ‘the 1970 Rules’), which were thereafter replaced by the All India Services (Performance Appraisal Report) Rules, 2007 (for brevity, ‘the 2007 Rules’), in the context of the mode and method of preparation of ACRs/APARs of IPS Officers in the rank of SPs. Rules 2(e), 2(f) and 2(a) of the 1970 Rules defined ‘Reporting Authority’, ‘Reviewing Authority’ and ‘Accepting Authority’ respectively, apropos preparation of ACRs/APARs. These Rules read as under: - ‘2(e) ‘reporting authority’ means the authority who was, during the period for which the confidential report is written, immediately superior to the member of the service and such other authority as may be specifically empowered in this behalf by the Government; 478 [2024] 1 S.C.R.