977 Kerala State Electricity Board Ltd. v. Jhabua Power Limited and Others Section 94 of the Act as it was passed solely on the ground that a subsequent direction issued by the State Government under Section 108 is binding on the KSERC. 14. By its impugned , APTEL allowed the appeals and set aside the of KSERC. The findings of the APTEL are summarized below. a. After recapitulating the decisions of this Court pertaining to the scope of the phrase “any other sufficient reasons” in XLVII Rule 1 of the CPC, the APTEL held that the threshold was not satisfied in the present case. The KSERC failed to point out any error in its previous and instead relied solely on the subsequent directions issued by the state government under Section 108 to review its earlier . None of the grounds which weighed with the KSERC in its previous were even referred to, thereby, defeating the purpose for which the power of review is exercised; b. The APTEL traced the decisions of this Court and its own decisions pertaining to the scope of Section 108 of the Act and held that the KSERC was not bound by the directives of the state government. The state government could not have issued a directive to compel the KSERC to exercise its quasi-judicial powers in a particular manner. Such powers are to be exercised independently by the KSERC in accordance with the Act; and c. APTEL held that Section 86(1)(b) of the Act expressly confers the function of regulating the price at which electricity should be procured by distribution licensees from generating companies to the KSERC. Under the Act, this power must be exercised solely in terms of Sections 62 and 63 of the Act. While approving the tariff under Section 63 of the Act, the KSERC can only adopt the tariff if it has been determined through a transparent process of bidding and is in accordance with the standard bidding guidelines. The KSERC had, in the exercise of its power under Section 86(1)(b) read with Section 63, already passed an , declining to adopt the tariff, since it was satisfied that the process of bidding was not in accordance with the standard bidding guidelines. A policy directive could not, therefore, override the statutory functions already exercised by the KSERC. 15. We have heard Mr V Giri, senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant. Mr Aryama Sundaram, senior counsel appears for 978 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the first respondent (Jhabua Power Limited) and Dr Abhishek Manu Singhvi, senior counsel for the second respondent (Jindal India Power Thermal Limited). 16. We are in agreement with the of APTEL insofar as it holds that the directive which was issued by the State government under Section 108 could not have displaced the adjudicatory function which was entrusted to KSERC. The State government while issuing a policy directive in the exercise of its power under Section 108 cannot impinge on the adjudicatory discretion which is vested in an authority under the Act.