It is thus submitted that the provisions contemplate different regimes for those having licence to drive Light Motor Vehicles as against those licensed to drive Transport Vehicles. 7. Having bestowed our attention to the contentions raised by the learned counsel and the issues which fall for consideration, in our view, the referral was right 5 Bajaj Alliance General Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Rambha Devi (2023) 4 SCC 723 558 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports in stating that certain provisions were not noticed by this Court in its decision in Mukund Dewangan (supra). We are prima facie of the view that in terms of the referral , the controversy in question needs to be re visited. Sitting in a combination of Three Judges, we deem it appropriate to refer the matters to a larger bench of more than Three Judges as the Hon’ble the Chief Justice of India may deem appropriate to constitute” 6. For the benefit of the claimants, the reference also pertinently notes that: “9. Before we part, we must note that all the learned counsel appearing for the Insurance companies have fairly submitted that the compensation in terms of the directions issued by the Courts below, that is to say, in following the principles laid down in Mukund Dewangan (supra) has either been paid in full or shall be paid in terms of such directions. Their statements are recorded.” 7. Thus, the correctness of Mukund Dewangan (2017) is to be evaluated during this reference. At this juncture, we may note that during the final stage of hearing before this Court on 20.7.2023, it was brought to our notice that the Union Government had accepted the decision in Mukund Dewangan (2017), by issuing notifications dated 16.4.2018 and 31.3.2021. The Rules were also amended to bring them in conformity with the said . Considering such compliance, we sought the assistance of the learned Attorney General, Mr. R. Venkataramani and desired to elicit the specific stand of the Union Government on the issue. When the matter was next heard on 13.9.2023,6 the following was passed by this 5-judge bench: “8. Mr. R Venkataramani, Attorney General for India, has appeared in response to the request of the Court and submitted a written note. The note submitted by the Attorney General indicates that: (i) Application of the ratio in Mukund Dewangan (supra) enables a person holding a licence for a light motor vehicle to drive a transport vehicle on the strength 6 Bajaj Alliance General Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Rambha Devi (2024) 1 SCC 818 [2024] 11 S.C.R. 559 M/s Bajaj Alliance General Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Rambha Devi & Ors. of that licence without a separate transport vehicle licence; and (ii) This interpretation of the provisions of the statute and the Rules in Mukund Dewangan (supra) does not appear to be in accord with the legislative intent. 9. The note also indicates that the letter dated 16 April 2018 was issued by the Union government taking note of the in Mukund Dewangan (supra) as the law declared by this Court.