It seems that the learned counsel is under some misconception of fact that the Trial Court did not frame the issue as regards whether the plaintiff was ready and willing to perform his part of the contract. The Trial Court did frame the issue as regards readiness & willingness & answered in the affirmative, i.e., in favour of the plaintiff. The High Court does not seem to have touched this issue at all. The High Court has not disturbed the findings recorded by the Trial Court on the issue of readiness & willingness. The plaintiff was always ready and willing to perform his part of the contract. 42. In the overall view of the matter, we are convinced that the High Court committed an error in setting aside the decree passed by the Trial Court of specific performance. 43. In the result, this appeal succeeds and is hereby allowed. 44. The impugned passed by the High Court is hereby set aside. However, we would like to restore the original decree passed by the Trial Court with a little modification. 45. The Trial Court directed that the appellant herein (Original plaintiff) shall pay the balance consideration of Rs. 13,50,000/- to the defendants and upon receipt of the said amount, the defendants shall execute the Sale Deed in favour of the appellant herein (Original plaintiff). 46. In the facts and circumstances of this case, more particularly, keeping in mind that the defendant No. 1 is a widow and defendant No. 2 is her minor son, we deem fit to enhance the amount to be paid towards the balance consideration to Rs. 20,00,000/-. [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1209 Parswanath Saha v. Bandhana Modak (Das) and Anr. 47. The decree of the Trial Court stands modified to the aforesaid extent. In short, the appellant herein (Original plaintiff) shall pay an amount of Rs. 20,00,000/- to the defendants and upon receipt of the same the defendants shall execute the Sale Deed in favour of the appellant (Original plaintiff). 48. The appeal stands disposed of in the aforesaid terms. Result of the Case: Appeal disposed of. †Headnotes prepared by: Divya Pandey