Digital Supreme Court Reports dated 19.11.1990 for a sum of Rs. 6,45,937.50. It is to be noted that the Trial Court passed an of status quo on 24.12.1992 qua alienation with regard to the share of defendant no. 1. 4. Defendant No. 2/appellant filed his separate written statement stating that defendant no. 1 has sold the property to him by executing a registered sale deed on 08.01.1993 and delivered possession after which mutation has also been carried out. According to the appellant/ defendant no. 2, the agreement, basing which the suit is filed, is a fabricated ante-dated document because defendant no. 1 did not disclose the factum of this agreement while executing the sale deed in his favour and thus, the appellant/defendant no. 2 is a bona fide purchaser. 5. In the Trial Court plaintiff examined himself as PW-2, Deed Writer/ Kulwant Singh as PW-1, Jasjit Singh as PW-3 whereas defendants examined Kirpan Singh as DW 1, Shangara Singh as DW 2, B.M. Sehgal as DW 3 and Subhash Chander as DW 4. The Trial Court vide its dated 27.04.2007 held that the plaintiff has proved the agreement to sell wherein defendant no. 2 has failed to prove that the agreement is a result of fraud and fabricated document. However, the Trial Court denied the decree for specific performance on the ground that since defendant no. 2 is the owner in possession of the suit land upon execution of the sale deed dated 08.01.1993, defendant no. 1 has left with no right or title of the suit land. Thus, he is unable to execute the sale deed in favour of the plaintiff and moreover the plaintiff and defendant no. 1 are close relative. The Trial Court also held that the plaintiff was ready and willing to perform his part of the contract. It was also held that defendant no. 2 is a bona fide purchaser as he was not having any knowledge about the agreement to sell between the plaintiff and defendant no. 1. The Trial Court eventually dismissed the suit in respect of the specific performance but allowed the alternative prayer for recovery of Rs. 40,000/- with interest @ 12% per annum. 6. The First Appellate Court maintained the Trial Court’s and decree by holding that the subject sale agreement is a result of fraud and collusion between the plaintiff and defendant no. 1. The First Appellate Court observed that in his first written statement he denied the execution of the agreement but subsequently after amendment in the plaint and impleadment of the appellant, he admitted the claim [2024] 10 S.C.R. 905 Shingara Singh v. Daljit Singh & Anr. of the plaintiff. The First Appellate Court further observed that the doctrine of lis pendens is not applicable in the facts of the present case. 7. The High Court, under the impugned in this appeal, opined that the sale deed executed by defendant no. 1 in favour of defendant no. 2/appellant is hit by doctrine of lis pendens and that defendant no.