[2024] 1 S.C.R. 81 : 2024 INSC 12 Case Details Rajendhiran v. Muthaiammal @ Muthayee & Ors. (Civil Appeal No.37 of 2024) 03 January 2024 [Vikram Nath* and Rajesh Bindal, JJ.] Issue for Consideration Whether the High Court was justified in allowing the Second Appeal filed by the respondents and setting aside the concurrent s of the trial court and the Sub-Judge dismissing the suit of the respondents and decreeing the suit. Headnotes Suit – Suit for declaration – Decreed by the High Court – Sustainability of, when on perverse findings and ignoring relevant material findings – Suit by the respondent seeking declaration that the sale deed executed was null and void; that suit property belonged to the respondents and for relief of an injunction against the defendants, on the basis of an oral partition whereby property was bequeathed to the respondents whereas the defendants denied the oral partition – Suit dismissed by the trial court and subordinate court – However, the High Court allowed the second appeal relying on certain documents, to support the existence of an oral partition – Correctness: Held: Trial court and the first appellate court dealt with the sale deeds, and found that those were not sufficient to prove the oral partition or in any manner establish the oral partition with respect to the survey number in question – High Court failed to consider the oral as also the documentary evidence – Only on the basis of the two sale deeds and one mortgage deed, which relate to different piece and parcels of land, the High Court recorded a perverse finding that oral partition had taken place – It also did not deal with the other findings recorded by the courts below – Thus, the impugned cannot be sustained as it does not conform to the scope of s. 100 CPC as also it was perverse on appreciated evidence, and also ignored material evidence – Impugned and of the High Court is set aside and that of the trial court * Author 82 [2024] 1 S.C.R. DIGITAL SUPREME COURT REPORTS and the first appellate court is confirmed, dismissing the suit of the respondent. [Paras 12-15] Other Case Details Including Impugned and Appearances CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION : Civil Appeal No.37 of 2024. From the and dated 28.07.2022 of the High Court of Judicature at Madras in SA No.351 of 2021. Appearances: M. A. Chinnasamy, K. S. Gnanasambandan, Mrs. C. Rubavathi, C. Raghavendren, Saurabh Gupta, Ch. Leela Sarveswar, Vinod Kumar Teng, Manoj Kumar Chowdhary, V. Senthil Kumar, Advs. for the Appellant. / of The Supreme Court Vikram Nath, J. 1. Leave granted. 2. This appeal, by the defendants, assails the correctness of the and dated 28.07.2022 of the High Court of Judicature at Madras whereby the Second Appeal No.351/2021 filed by the plaintiff was allowed and the concurrent s of the Trial Court and the Sub-Judge dismissing the suit of the plaintiff-respondents were set aside and the suit was decreed. 3. Facts in nutshell are : 3.1 The respondent instituted a suit before the Munsiff Court, Tiruchengode registered as OS No.200/2011 claiming relief of declaration that the sale deed dated 10.02.2011 executed by the first defendant in favour of second defendant was null and void and to declare that suit property belonged to the plaintiffs and further for relief of an injunction against the defendants.