6. 308 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports rich and the poor and the distribution of wealth was not taking place as it ought to have as there were provisions in the Constitution to bring suitable changes. 36. Measures the Government could take in reducing inequality and redistributing wealth could only be through its laws and the schemes under the law, but then these laws invariably faced challenges before the constitutional courts, which significantly delayed their implementation. One example is the laws for abolition of zamindari as discussed previously. Another important resource, which the State sought to take control of in pursuance of achieving the objectives of Article 39(b) & (c), was financial assistance, to the farmers in particular. It was not difficult for big enterprises to obtain credit. Also, the landowning farmers could mortgage their land to obtain credit but the landless farmers had no collateral to provide as security against credit before the private banks. Agriculture was the main source of livelihood for a majority of Indians. All the same, farmers in our country were perpetually indebted to the money lenders and had hardly any other resource to look forward to. The State was required to support the farmers in adopting new techniques if the food-grains production was to increase. Farmers needed financial support in the form of credit which could not have been expected through private banks. Also, the agrarian reforms in the initial years would have failed to achieve their purpose if farmers, who benefitted from those reforms, were not to be supported in agriculture production. No doubt that agrarian reforms hold great significance in India, but it would be wrong to say that the abolition of zamindaris would be enough for the tillers of the soil. Merely handing over the most precious ‘material resource’ (land) to the farmers was not sufficient; something more was required to be done. Financial assistance through easy loans were to be made available to farmers, and they were also to be provided with genetic seeds (HYV66 seeds), pesticides etc. This was all to be a part of the Green Revolution of the late 1960s. Institutional credit support to the farmers would become easier with the nationalisation of the banking system, besides its impacts on other parts of the economy. 66 High-Yielding Variety. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 309 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. 37. To understand the Bank Nationalisation Case, we have to go back a few years prior to when these measures were taken by the State. In State of West Bengal v. Bela Banerjee (1953) 2 SCC 648, a Five-Judge bench of this Court was dealing with the provisions of West Bengal Land Development and Planning Act, 1948, under which the State could acquire land for public purposes including settling immigrants who had migrated to West Bengal from erstwhile East Pakistan (now Bangladesh). Proviso to Section 8(b) of this Act had fixed the market value as the maximum compensation as on 31.12.1946, for the lands acquired irrespective of the date of its actual acquisition.