The doctrine of bias as evolved in English and Indian law emphasizes independence and impartiality in the process of adjudication to inspire the confidence of the public in the adjudicatory processes. Although Section 12 deals with the quality of independence and impartiality inherent in the arbitrators, the provision’s emphasis is to ensure an independent and impartial arbitral process. 125. Fali Nariman, distinguished lawyer and erudite jurist, in an article on ‘Standards of Behaviour of Arbitrators’,234 opined that the level of probity expected of arbitrators is no less, and perhaps more stringent than what is expected of judges: “Though litigation is compulsory and arbitration is consensual, both are judicial processes of an adversarial character. That is why arbitration has always been regarded as quasi-judicial. Standards of behaviour expected of arbitrators – with reference to their impartiality and their independence – are no less stringent than that demanded of judges; in fact, arbitrators are expected to behave a shade better since judges are institutionally insulated by the established court-system, their s being also subjected to the corrective scrutiny of an appeal.” 126. The agreement on the number of arbitrators is a matter of party autonomy. However, the choice of arbitrators has a direct effect on the conduct of arbitral proceedings. In commercial cases, the choice of the number of arbitrators is usually between one and three. The parties select the number of arbitrators by considering factors such as the needs of a particular dispute, costs, and efficiency.235 In case parties cannot agree upon the number of arbitrators, national arbitration legislation specifies the number of arbitrators to be appointed. For instance, Article 10(2) of the Model Law provides that if the parties fail to determine the number of arbitrators, three arbitrators will be appointed.236 Interestingly, the Arbitration Act departs from the 234 Fali Nariman, ‘Standards of Behaviour of Arbitrators’ (1988) 4(4) Arbitration International 311, 312. 235 Redfern and Hunter (supra) 210 236 Article 10(2), Model Law. [It reads: “Article 10. Number of arbitrators [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2257 Central Organisation for Railway Electrification v. M/s ECI SPIC SMO MCML (JV) A Joint Venture Company Model Law by providing that the arbitral tribunal shall consist of a sole arbitrator if parties fail to determine the number of arbitrators.237 127. Reference of disputes to a sole arbitrator has various advantages, including easy arrangements of meetings or hearings, reduced expenses since the parties will only have to bear the expense of one arbitrator, and speedy decision-making.238 In the case of the appointment of a sole arbitrator, the decision-making vests in the hands of one person. This poses a greater risk of bias against the weaker party, especially if the arbitrator is unilaterally appointed by the other party. 128. If a person having a financial interest in the outcome of the arbitral proceedings unilaterally nominates a sole arbitrator, it is bound to give rise to justifiable doubts on the independence and impartiality of the arbitrator. The possibility of bias by the arbitrator is real because the person who has an interest in the subject matter of the dispute can chart out the course of the entire arbitration proceeding by unilaterally appointing a sole arbitrator.