The Committee noticed that the production of GM crops was concentrated only in a select few countries, India [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1921 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. being one of them but also noted the general hesitation of developed economies to use this technology at a wide scale. The observation in this regard is as extracted hereunder: “The Committee notes that currently, twenty years after their introduction in 1996, only 6 countries continue to account for over 90% of all GM crop area globally (USA 40%, Brazil 23%, Argentina 14%, India 6%, Canada 6%, China 2%). The Committee was informed by the members of civil society during the deliberation on the subject that there was a decline in GM crop area in 2015. The Committee notes with surprise that inspite of the fact that GM technology is being propagated as the most advanced agricultural technology, 17 of the 20 most developed countries (HDI) do not grow it which includes most of Europe, Japan, Russia, Israel etc. The Committee opines that there is increasing evidence about the lack of safety of GM crops and little or no benefits to justify the risks, most countries in the world do not grow GM crops. The Committee also feels that the policy makers of these countries, as custodians for both present and future generations, have seen that GM organisms spread rapidly, that the impacts have been unpredictable, potentially hazardous, uncontrollable and irreversible, assessed the benefits and risks, taken note of emerging evidence of harm, and therefore do not permit GM crops. The non acceptance of the most advanced agricultural technology, GM technology, by the most developed countries raises doubts about the efficacy of the technology. The Committee, therefore, feels that the Government of India should conduct a comparative study to examine the reasons for not accepting this technology by these developed countries viz-a-viz the reasons led to its acceptance.” 1922 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports iii. The Committee has noted that despite the tiered regulatory system in place, there is no scrutiny of the process of Environmental Impact Assessment and reliance is predominantly on the data supplied by the Applicant. It was recommended that an independent agency consisting of persons with impeccable credentials should carry out the process of evaluation to ensure that there is no violation of the existing regulations. iv. The Committee has come out in support of placing every piece of information, in public scrutiny. It is wise to ensure that the entire process reflects the values of participation and transparency with the overall goal being to clear out the doubts in the mind of the public. v. In respect of cross-contamination of GM and non-GM crops the acceptance of the Department of Agricultural Research and Education was noted, that a herbicide tolerant gene may escape by way of pollination to another farm that is to another GM or non-GM crop and, therefore, the committee was of the view that if cultivation, side- by-side or in other words simultaneously, was allowed there would be no way to stop contamination.