1865 In Re: T.N. Godavarman Thirumulpad v. Union of India & Ors. 46. Moreover, international obligations such as the Convention on Biological Diversity, 1992 and the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples (UNDRIP) compel India to respect and protect traditional ecological knowledge and cultural practices. The relevant clauses are as follows: “The ConvenTion on BiologiCal DiversiTy, 1992 8. Each contracting Party shall, as far as possible and as appropriate: (j) Subject to its national legislation, respect, preserve and maintain knowledge, innovations and practices of Indigenous and local communities embodying traditional lifestyles relevant for the conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity and promote their wider application with the approval and involvement of the holders of such knowledge, innovations and practices and encourage the equitable sharing of the benefits arising from the utilisation of such knowledge, innovations and practices.” 10. (c) Protect and encourage customary use of biological resources in accordance with traditional cultural practices that are compatible with conservation or sustainable use requirements. ................................................................... The United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples(UNDRIP) Article 5: Indigenous peoples have the right to maintain and strengthen their distinct political, legal, economic, social and cultural institutions, while retaining their right to participate fully, if they so choose, in the political, economic, social and cultural life of the State. Article 12: 1. Indigenous peoples have the right to manifest, practise, develop and teach their spiritual and religious traditions, customs and ceremonies; the right to maintain, protect, and have access in privacy to their religious and 1866 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports cultural sites; the right to the use and control of their ceremonial objects; and the right to the repatriation of their human remains. 2. States shall seek to enable the access and/or repatriation of ceremonial objects and human remains in their possession through fair, transparent and effective mechanisms developed in conjunction with indigenous peoples concerned. arTiCle 18: Indigenous peoples have the right to participate in decision- making in matters which would affect their rights, through representatives chosen by themselves in accordance with their own procedures, as well as to maintain and develop their own indigenous decision-making institutions. Article 25: Indigenous peoples have the right to maintain and strengthen their distinctive spiritual relationship with their traditionally owned or otherwise occupied and used lands, territories, waters and coastal seas and other resources and to uphold their responsibilities to future generations in this regard.” (emphasis supplied) (ii) eCologiCal and CultuRal signiFiCanCe 47. The protection of Orans lands as ‘forests’ under the FC Act is imperative for upholding both ecological sustainability and cultural heritage. Orans are not merely tracts of land but sacred groves deeply interwoven with the spiritual and cultural ethos of local communities. They represent a grassroot model of conservation, where biodiversity thrives under community-led management and traditional practices of restraint. These sacred groves are pivotal for in situ biodiversity preservation, safeguarding endangered species. Additionally, they mitigate soil erosion, recharge aquifers, and serve as genetic repositories critical for ecological balance.