[Emphasis supplied] 18.8 Reference can also be made to another of this Court in Municipal Committee, Barwala, District Hisar, Haryana trough its Secretary/President v. Jai Narayan and Company and Another9, wherein this Court took a similar view. 18.9 Whether the change in policy was retrospective or not is not an issue here. The change in policy decision taken on 15.12.2003 clearly mentions that even pending allotment matters were to be dealt with according to said change i.e. of holding auctions. This decision of change in policy brought about on 15.12.2003 was never challenged as is apparent from the relief claimed in the petition. Therefore, the settled procedure to be followed on or after 15.12.2003 was only to provide land by way of auction of educational sites and not by way of any allotment. Before that date there was no allotment of land in favour of the respondent. Even otherwise it is the settled position of law that whenever the State intends to transfer any land resort should be by public auction or inviting tenders. 9 (2022) SCC Online SC 376 472 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 18.10 Another argument raised by Dr. Singhvi regarding allotment having been made in favour of other Societies is also of no help. In the present case, the Society did not have the necessary Sponsorship Letter for establishing the school in Vasant Kunj area, and therefore, it was not even eligible to apply for procuring a site in Vasant Kunj area under the original rules. Further it is well settled that if any allotment had been made contrary to the existing policy and rules, the same would not form a basis of benefit being extended to another society as under law negative parity is not recognised or approved rather it is disapproved. 19. For the reasons recorded above, we are convinced that the only outcome of the writ petition was dismissal. The Single Judge and Division Bench fell in serious error while granting relief to the respondent Society. Accordingly, the appeals are allowed, the impugned s passed by the Division Bench and Single Judge are set aside. The writ petition is dismissed. 20. There shall, however, be no as to costs. Headnotes prepared by: Nidhi Jain Result of the case: Appeals allowed.