[2024] 10 S.C.R. 425 : 2024 INSC 757 Banshidhar Construction Pvt. Ltd. v. Bharat Coking Coal Limited & Others (Civil Appeal No. 11005 of 2024) 04 October 2024 [Bela M. Trivedi* and Satish Chandra Sharma, JJ.] Issue for Consideration Issue arose whether the respondent was justified in rejecting the technical bid of the appellant, while accepting the technical bid of the respondent no. 8-Company, and declaring it to be successful bidder, though the respondent no. 8 had not complied with the mandatory requirement of submitting the important documents relating to the qualification criteria as contained in Clause 10 of the Notice Inviting Tender-NIT. Headnotes† Government Contracts – Judicial Intervention – Scope of – Tender for mega project – Respondent no. 1-BCCL, a public sector undertaking floated tender – Appellant participated in the Tender, however, declared to be technically disqualified on the ground that it did not comply with the Clause 10 of NIT, as regards power of attorney for signing of bid – Respondent no. 8 Company declared successful bidder – Aggrieved, appellant filed the writ petition on the ground that the respondent no.8 had not submitted the scanned copies of the Audited balance sheets required to be submitted as per Clause 10 NIT in relation to the financial capacity, while submitting/uploading the tender documents and it was only when clarification was sought from the respondent No.8 about the shortfall of documents, the said Audited balance sheets were submitted after the technical bids were opened – High Court dismissed the writ petition, confirming the decision of the technical bid committee of the respondent rejecting the technical bid of the appellant, while accepting the technical bid of the respondent no. 8 – Challenge to: * Author 426 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Held: Government bodies/instrumentalities are expected to act in absolutely fair, reasonable and transparent manner, particularly in the award of contracts for Mega projects – Any element of arbitrariness or discrimination may lead to hampering of the entire project which would not be in the public interest – Court does not sit as a Court of Appeal in the matter of award of contracts and it merely reviews the manner in which the decision was made; and that the Government and its instrumentalities must have a freedom of entering into the contracts – However, the decision of the government/instrumentalities must be free from arbitrariness and must not be affected by any bias or actuated by malafides – Right to equality u/Art.14 abhors arbitrariness – Public authorities have to ensure that no bias, favouritism or arbitrariness are shown during the bidding process and that the entire bidding process is carried out in absolutely transparent manner – On facts, the power of attorney was duly executed in favour of the donee, the signatory of the documents, and was duly not arised before its submission along with other important documents required to be submitted as per the NIT by the appellant, before the last date of submission fixed by the respondent – Hence, no legal or justifiable ground to reject the technical bid of the appellant – Action of the respondent in rejecting the technical bid of the appellant on absolutely extraneous ground and accepting the technical bid of the respondent no.8 though submitted in utter non-compliance of the mandatory requirement of Clause 10 NIT, and subsequently calling upon the respondent no.8 to furnish the shortfall of documents after the opening of technical bids of the bidders, totally arbitrary and illegal – Furthermore, it cannot be said that the project being Infrastructure project and also one of the Mega projects, this Court may not interfere more particularly in view of the fact that agreement has already been entered into between the respondent and the Special Purpose Vehicle of respondent no.8 – Impugned decision of the respondent rejecting the technical bid of the appellant and further declaring the respondent no.8 as successful bidder grossly arbitrary, illegal, discriminatory and violative of Art.14, thus, set aside – Any action/process undertaken or agreement entered into pursuant to the said decision also set aside.