It is obvious that in specifying castes, races or tribes, the President has been expressly authorised to limit the notification to parts of or groups within the castes, races or tribes, and that must mean that after examining the educational and social backwardness of a caste, race or tribe, the President may well come to the conclusion that not the whole caste, race or tribe but parts of or groups within them should be specified. Similarly, the President can specify castes, races or tribes or parts thereof in relation not only to the entire State, but in relation to parts of the State where he is satisfied that the examination of the social and educational are backwardness of the race, caste or tribe justifies such specification. In fact, it is well known that before a notification is issued under Article 341(1), an elaborate 380 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports enquiry is made and it is as a result of this enquiry that social justice is sought to be done to the castes, races or tribes as may appear to be necessary, and in doing justice, it would obviously be expedient not only to specify parts or groups of castes, races or tribes, but to make the said specification by reference to different areas in the State. Educational and social backwardness in regard to these castes, races or tribes may not be uniform or of the same intensity in the whole of the State; it may vary in degree or in kind in different areas and that may justify the division of the State into convenient and suitable areas for the purpose of issuing the public notification in question.” 17. The absolute necessity of a public notification in terms of Articles 341 and 342 was explicated by a Constitution Bench of this Court in State of Maharashtra v. Milind, (2001) 1 SCC 4 (‘Milind’) which held that de hors a specific mention in the entry concerned in the Constitution (Scheduled Tribes) , 1950 (as amended by Parliament), it was impermissible to hold an inquiry and declare that any tribe or tribal community to be included in the list of Scheduled Tribes. While holding that Article 341(2) did permit anyone to seek such modification and that it is not open to any judicial body to modify or vary the Constitution (Scheduled Tribes) , 1950, this Court expounded on the salutary purpose of deferring to the Presidential , as amended by Parliament while considering the grant of any benefit to members of the Scheduled Tribe community: “11. By virtue of powers vested under Articles 341 and 342 of the Constitution of India, the President is empowered to issue public notification for the first time specifying the castes, races or tribes or part of or groups within castes, races, or tribes which shall, for the purposes of the Constitution be deemed to be Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes in relation to a State or Union Territory, as the case may be. The language and terms of Articles 341 and 342 are identical.