deals only with liberal rights of individuals and they seem to conform to the old school of thought which has outlived its utility, the school of utilitarians and the liberals. As against this the principles enunciated in Part IV approach a Socialist pattern. The sincerity or the goodness of this government will be judged by how far they go to implement these Directive Principles. It is very easy to stick to Fundamental Rights and appear progressive while doing nothing to reduce class difference. But real liberty will have no meaning unless there is economic equality”.30 14. To reiterate, the purpose of the Directive Principles is the welfare of the people and of the community. Provisions in Part IV of the Constitution of India are directions to the State to bring such legislation which would make the ‘Welfare State’ a reality, as it will be the deeds of a ‘Welfare State’ which will truly make it a ‘Welfare State’. Directive Principles have no meaning if they remain in the Constitution as a pious precept, as some members of the Constituent Assembly believed.31 Directive Principles must be enforced through law. When and how it is done will depend on our Parliament and State legislatures as it is in their domain, but do they must, for these are “fundamental for the governance of the Country”. Directive Principles of State Policy are the guide maps which will take our State towards a ‘Welfare State’. Justice O. Chinnappa Reddy in Chapter 9 of his book32 writes: “To any person interested in the building up of a welfare state, it is clear that the Directive Principles of State Policy are at least as fundamental as the Fundamental Rights and far more important from the point of view of the objectives to be attained as stated in the preamble which is the key to the Constitution. It is a mistake to 30 See Justice O. chinnaPPa reddy, the cOurt and the cOnstitutiOn Of india: suMMits and shallOws (Oxford University Press, 2008), Pgs. 74-75. 31 P.S. Deshmukh said “We do not want to depend on mere platitudes and pious wishes” (cOnstituent asseMBly deBates, vOl. v, Pg.341). N. Ahmad referred to them as “pious expressions” (cOnstituent asseMBly deBates, vOl. vii, Pg. 225). B. Das called them “pious hopes and wishes” (cOnstituent asseMBly deBates, vOl. vii, Pg. 539). Kazi Syed Karimuddin also called them “pious wishes” (cOnstituent asseMBly deBates, vOl. vii, Pg. 473). 32 See Justice O. chinnaPPa reddy, the cOurt and the cOnstitutiOn Of india: suMMits and shallOws (Oxford University Press, 2008), Pg. 76. 280 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports suppose, with due respect to some eminent judges who so supposed, that the Fundamental Rights are more ‘transcendental’ or ‘primordial’ than the Directive Principles. The difference between the Fundamental Rights and the Directive Principles lies in this that the Fundamental Rights are aimed at assuring political freedom to citizens by protecting them against excessive state action while the Directive Principles are aimed at securing social and economic freedoms for citizens by state action.