It is only appropriate to refer to Halsbury’s Laws of England (4th Edn., Vol-11, Para-10), going by the same: “…it is impossible to ascribe any particular meaning to the term ‘mens rea’, concepts such as those of intention, recklessness and knowledge which commonly used as the basis for criminal liability and in some respects, it may be said to be fundamental to it. Generally, subject to both qualification and exception, a person is not to be made criminally liable for serious crimes unless he intends to cause or foresees that he will probably cause or at the lowest he may cause the elements which constitute a crime in question.” 16. In the decision in Director of Enforcement v. MCTM Corp. Pvt. Ltd. & Ors.4, it was observed that mens rea is a state of mind and held that under the criminal law mens rea is considered as the “guilty intention” and unless it is found that the ‘accused’ had the 4 [1996] 1 S.C.R. 215 : AIR 1996 SC 1100 [2024] 2 S.C.R. 1063 M. Vijayakumar v. State of Tamil Nadu guilty intention to commit the crime, he could not be held guilty of committing the crime. 17. In the case on hand the question to be considered is whether the appellant had instigated as envisaged under Section 107, IPC, to commit the offence under Section 306, IPC. It is in the said circumstances that we have earlier referred to the ingredients to attract offence under Section 306, IPC. Essentially the gravamen of the offence punishable under Section 306, IPC, is abetting suicide. Abetment imposes a mental process of instigating a person or initially aiding a person in doing the offence. In the case on hand, the question is whether the appellant abetted the deceased Senthil Kumar to commit suicide. The evidence of the prosecution witness viz., PW-1 and PW-3 did not reveal existence of the element of mens rea on the part of the appellant. There is nothing in their oral testimonies which would suggest that the appellant had instigated the deceased Senthil Kumar to commit suicide. In this context, it is to be noted that the victim committed suicide inside the tailoring shop of PW-3 Sampath Kumar. He would submit that on 06.12.2002 at about 06.30 pm he locked his shop and left the key of the shop with A-3, father of the appellant. Sampath Kumar would further depose that he came to know about the commission of suicide by Senthil Kumar inside his tailoring shop only in the next morning by about 9 O’clock. We have already noted that though the prosecution got a case that one Alexander had witnessed the appellant taking the victim and wrongfully confining him in the said shop, the said Alexander was not examined by the prosecution. At any rate, the fact is that the appellant was already acquitted for the offence under Sections 342 and 365, IPC. It is also to be noted that though A-3, Muthu, (the father of the appellant) was the person to whom PW-3 said to have handed over the key of his shop, he was acquitted by the trial Court and no appeal was filed against his acquittal.