19. The basis of determination of the amount of mesne profits, in our view, depends on the facts and circumstances of each case considering the place where the property is situated i.e. village or city or metropolitan city, location, nature of premises i.e. 11 [2022] 16 SCR 38 : (2022) 8 SCC 527 [2024] 5 S.C.R. 875 Bijay Kumar Manish Kumar HUF v. Ashwin Bhanulal Desai commercial or residential area and the rate of rent precedent on which premises can be let out are the guiding factor in the facts of individual case.” (Emphasis supplied) 18. A perusal of the s extracted above as also other cases where Atma Ram Properties (supra) one common factor can be observed, i.e., the decree of eviction stands passed and the same having been stayed, gives rise to the question of payment of mesne profit. As observed above, the respondent contends that since, in the present case no decree of eviction is passed, and there is no stay awarded, the question of such payment does not arise. 19. While the above-stated position is generally accepted, it is also within the bounds of law, that a tenant who once entered the property in question lawfully, continues in possession after his right to do so stands extinguished, is liable to compensate the landlord for such time period after the right of occupancy expires. In this regard, we may refer to Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. v. Sudera Realty Private Limited12, wherein this Court in para 64 observed as under : “64. A tenant continuing in possession after the expiry of the lease may be treated as a tenant at sufferance, which status is a shade higher than that of a mere trespasser, as in the case of a tenant continuing after the expiry of the lease, his original entry was lawful. But a tenant at sufferance is not a tenant by holding over. While a tenant at sufferance cannot be forcibly dispossessed, that does not detract from the possession of the erstwhile tenant turning unlawful on the expiry of the lease. Thus, the appellant while continuing in possession after the expiry of the lease became liable to pay mesne profits.” (Emphasis supplied) 20. It is to be noted that the Court in Sudera Realty (supra) observed that mesne profits become payable on continuation of possession 12 [2022] 19 SCR 462 : 2022 SCC OnLine 1161 876 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports after ‘expiry’ of lease. In our considered view, the effect of the words ‘determination’, ‘expiry’, ‘forfeiture’ and ‘termination’ would, subject to the facts applicable, be similar, i.e., when any of these three words are applied to a lease, henceforth, the rights of the lessee/ tenant stand extinguished or in certain cases metamorphosed into weaker iteration of their former selves. Illustratively, Burton’s Legal Thesaurus 3rd Edn. suggests the following words as being similar to ‘expire’ - cease, come to an end; ‘determine’ is similar to - come to a conclusion, bring to an end; ‘forfeiture’ is similar to – deprivation/ destruction of a right, divestiture of property; and ‘terminate’ is similar to – bring to an end, cease, conclude.