70. In the present case, it was a statutory committee framed under the Recruitment Rules and to ensure a fair selection, recusal resolution was passed by the standing committee before the selection. J. Mohapatra (supra) recognizes the distinction between committees constituted under administrative measures and committees under statutory rules or regulations, while explaining the ease with which composition in cases of non-statutory committees could be changed. 71. Learned counsel drew attention to the chart (set out in para 32 above) to demonstrate that, in some instances, the marks obtained by the Complainant - Archana Mishra and the parties seeking impleadment in the interview, were more than the marks secured by some of the appellants. Had an opportunity being given to them before the 232 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Collector they would have demonstrated these facts, to dispel the argument of bias and favouritism, contends the learned counsel. 72. Learned counsel for the State and the parties seeking impleadment have vehemently countered these submissions. They contended first that the principle of Ashok Kumar Yadav (supra) can only apply to Public Service Commissions. They relied on Reference under Article 317(1) of the Constitution of India, In Re (2009) 1 SCC 337 to reinforce this point. This contention overlooks the fact that Javid Rasool Bhatt (supra) affirmed in Ashok Kumar Yadav (supra) was not a case of Public Service Commission. It is only that the Chairman of the Public Service Commission was the Chairman of the selection committee with the other two Members in that case being the Members of the two Government Medical Colleges in Srinagar and Jammu respectively. Moreover, in the present case, the Committee is a statutory Committee set up under the Recruitment Rules of 1997. This aspect is independent of the point of breach of natural justice at the original stage. 73. Learned counsel for the State and the private respondents contends that the selection and appointment is vitiated on the ground of bias and likelihood of bias irrespective of recusal of the relative members in the committee. The of Dr. (Mrs.) Kirti Deshmankar (supra) cited by them was a case where the mother-in-law of the candidate did not recuse. Equally so, in the case of J. Mohapatra (supra) there was no recusal. The of A.K. Kraipak (supra) cited by them also stands distinguished in Javid Rasool Bhatt (supra), Ashok Kumar Yadav (supra) and in Jaswant Singh Nerwal (supra) for the reasons rightly stated therein. 74. This is not a case where from the facts, only one admitted or indisputable factual position emerges, warranting denial of the issuance of the writ. This Court, following the limited exception carved out by Chinnappa Reddy, J. in S.L.Kapur (supra) has held that since Courts do not issue futile writs, in cases where on admitted or indisputable facts only one conclusion is possible, then writs will not follow. This is, even if there was violation of principles of natural justice. This principle has been followed in M.C. Mehta vs. Union of India, (1999) 6 SCC 237 and Aligarh Muslim University and Others vs. Mansoor Ali Khan, (2000) 7 SCC 529.