The doctrine of prospective overruling was originally developed by American jurists. This doctrine was first applied in an Indian context in I.C. Golak Nath v. State of Punjab reported in AIR 1967 SC 1643. It was decided by this Court therein that the power of amendment under Article 368 of the Constitution did not allow the Parliament to abridge the fundamental rights contained in the Part III of the Constitution. However, while holding thus, this Court made the decision operative with prospective effect. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1227 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 199. The decision was given prospective effect in recognition of the fact that from the coming into force of the Constitution upto the date of the decision in Golak Nath (supra), the Parliament had in fact exercised the power of amendment in a way which, as per the decision in Golak Nath (supra), was void. This Court observed that if retrospectivity were to be given to the decision, it would introduce chaos and unsettled conditions in the country. On the other hand, this Court also recognized that such a possibility of chaos might be preferable to the alternative of a totalitarian rule. This Court, therefore, sought to evolve a reasonable principle to meet the extraordinary situation. The reasonable principle which was evolved was the doctrine of prospective overruling. 200. The decision in Golak Nath (supra) was overruled by subsequent decision in Kesavananda Bharati v. State of Kerala reported in (1973) 4 SCC 225. However, the observations of this Court regarding the evolution of the doctrine of prospective overruling, which hold to this day, are as follows: "45. There are two doctrines familiar to American Jurisprudence, one is described as Blackstonian theory and the other as “prospective over-ruling” which may have some relevance to the present enquiry. Blackstone in his Commentaries, 69 (15th Edn., 1809) stated the common law rule that the duty of the Court was “not to pronounce a new rule but to maintain and expound the old one”. It means the Judge does not make law but only discovers or finds the true law. The law has always been the same. If a subsequent decision changes the earlier one, the latter decision does not make law but only discovers the correct principle of law. The result of this view is that it is necessarily retrospective in operation. But Jurists, George F. Canfield, Robert Hill Freeman, John Henry Wigmore and Cardozo have expounded the doctrine of “prospective over-ruling” and suggested it as “a useful judicial tool”. In the words of Canfield the said expression means: “… a court should recognize a duty to announce a new and better rule for future transactions whenever the court has reached the conviction that on old rule 1228 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (as established by the precedents) is unsound even though feeling compelled by stare decisis to apply the old and condemned rule to the instance case and to transactions which had already taken place”.