The sanction (Ex.P25) clearly states that the Director of Treasury, Bangalore, (P.W.11) after perusal of the documents forwarded by the Lokayukta police, such as, complaint, FIR, entrustment panchanama, seizure panchanama, report from F.S.L, sketch of the scene of occurrence along with the relevant documents pertaining to the case including the statements of witnesses and also the statement of the respondent, accorded sanction to initiate prosecution against the respondent. Therefore, we do not find any procedural irregularity in grant of sanction. It was also deposed by the sanctioning authority (P.W.11) that after going through all these documents which were made available to him by the Lokayukta Police and after satisfying himself that there was a prima facie case to initiate the prosecution against the respondent and after having arrived at such satisfaction, he accorded sanction (Ex.P.25). Thus, it is clear that the prosecution initiated the proceedings against the respondent, after obtaining the sanction from the competent authority. 17. Keeping in mind the aforesaid legal principles, let us examine the depositions of the prosecution witnesses to prove the charges framed against the respondent. P.W.1 is the complainant, who lodged complaint (Ex.P1) against the respondent, based on which the prosecution was set in motion. He deposed in his evidence that after getting instructions from the Block Education Officer, he presented a bill for Rs.43,323/- towards encashment of surrender leave salary of himself and three non-teaching staff of the school, on 29.07.2009 to the Sub Treasury Office, Afzalpur and requested the respondent to pass the same; on verifying the said bill, the respondent instructed the complainant to take back the same and it cannot be approved; however, the complainant requested him to pass the bill, for which, 1484 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the respondent demanded a bribe of Rs.2,000/- for influencing his higher officers; since the complainant did not accede to the demand made by the respondent, on 30.07.2009, he went to the office of Lokayukta and informed the same; the officials of Lokayukta handed over a tape rec for recording the conversation with the respondent; on 31.07.2009, the complainant went to the Sub Treasury Office and enquired with the respondent for passing the bill, who demanded illegal gratification of Rs.2,000/-; and the said conversation was recorded in the tape rec and was handed over to the Lokayukta police along with complaint (Ex.P1) on 05.08.2009; and Ex.P.l (a) is his signature. 17.1. The complainant further stated in his evidence that on 05.08.2009, the Lokayukta Inspector summoned PW2 and PW3 as panchnama witnesses and introduced the complainant, who informed them about the illegal gratification made by the respondent and thereafter, conversation recorded in the tape rec was heard by them, which was reduced in writing (Ex. P21); subsequently, the complainant produced four currency notes of Rs.500/- denomination; the Lokayukta police smeared phenolphthalein powder to the currency notes and handed over the same to Ishappa (PW3), who counted the notes, kept the same in the left side pant pocket of the complainant, then, both hands of P.W.3 were dipped into sodium carbonate solution, which turned into pink colour and the solution was collected in a bottle (M.O.1) and thereafter, entrustment mahazar (Ex.P2) was prepared and Exs.P3 to P10 photographs were also taken.