1699 Mineral Area Development Authority & Anr. v. M/s Steel Authority of India & Anr. Etc. the sale or purchase of goods.292 In Rajasthan Rollers Flour Mills Association v. State of Rajasthan,293 a two-Judge Bench of this Court held that a limitation imposed by a law enacted under Article 286(3) is a restriction upon the plenary power of the State to levy tax on the sale/ purchase of goods and must be construed “strictly.” It was further held that the restrictions imposed by Parliament upon the legislative power of the States must be specified by the law.294 240. In its textual sense, the verb ‘to limit’ means to restrict or constrain. The respondents submit that the word “any limitation” can be interpreted in a manner bestowing absolute authority on Parliament to limit the field of taxation of the state legislature under Entry 50 of List II. However, we need to understand the purport of the expression “limitations” not only in its literal sense, but also IN the constitutional sense. 241. The common thread running between Entry 54 of List I and Entries 23 and 50 of List II is mineral development. The concept of mineral development is closely associated with proper and sustainable exploitation and utilization of mineral resources. Mineral resources are important for the economic development of the nation, considering the fact that they are used as raw materials in many industries. The Constitution had this aspect in mind when it empowered Parliament to bring under its control regulation of mines and mineral development. The rationale was that the Central Government will ensure uniform regulatory standards for mineral operations, especially with respect to major minerals. Moreover, it was envisaged that the Central Government could take effective steps to ensure uniform standards of exploration and extraction of minerals with a view to ensuring their sustainability and conservation. The phrase “through a law relating to mineral development” appearing in Entry 50 of List II indicates that Parliament can limit the field of taxation only in the interests of mineral development. It was in this perspective that the Constitution 292 Article 286(3) before omission read: “(3) Any law of a State shall, in so far as it imposes, or authorizes the imposition of, - (a) A tax on the sale or purchase of goods declared by Parliament by law to be of special importance in inter-State trade or commerce; or (b) A tax on the sale or purchase of goods, being a tax of the nature referred to in sub-clause (b), sub-clause (c) or sub-clause (d) of clause (29A) of article 366, be subject to such restrictions and conditions in regard to the system of levy, rates and other incidents of tax as Parliament may by law specify.” 293 [1993] Supp. 2 SCR 72 : (1994) Supp. 1 SCC 413 [14] 294 Rajasthan Rollers Flour Mills Association (supra) [21] 1700 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports empowered Parliament to impose “any limitations” on the legislative field of States to tax mineral rights through a law relating to mineral development.