5.7 However, sub-section (5) of Section 6 is akin to an exception to sub-section (1) to (4) of Section 6. It is a suo motu power vested with the Central Government to direct investigation of a Scheduled Offence which has been allegedly committed and which is required to be investigated under the said Act by the NIA. This power is de hors the power to be exercised by the Central Government under sub-sections (3) and (4) of Section 6. That is why sub-section (5) of Section 6 begins with a non- obstante clause and it is notwithstanding anything contained in Section 6 that the suo motu power can be exercised by the Central Government by forming an opinion. Sub-section (8) of Section 6 states that where the Central Government is of the opinion that a Scheduled Offence has been committed at any place outside India to which the said Act extends, it may direct [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1767 Ankush Vipan Kapoor v. National Investigation Agency the NIA to register the case and take up investigation as if such offence has been committed in India. The powers under sub-sections (5) are reserved to the Central Government to be exercised by it suo motu when a Scheduled Offence has been committed in India or overseas to which the said Act applies, when it can on the basis of its opinion formed, direct the NIA to investigate the said offence. In fact, in the case of an offence committed outside India to which NIA Act extends, the Central Government can direct the NIA to register the case as well as take up investigation as if such offence has been committed in India. 5.8 Section 8 states that while investigating any Scheduled Offence the NIA may also investigate any other offence which the accused is alleged to have committed if the offence is connected with the Scheduled Offence. The key words in Section 8 are “connected with the Scheduled Offence”. Therefore, what is necessary to confer power on the NIA to investigate any other offence apart from a Scheduled Offence which has been directed to be investigated by it, “is the connection of” any other offence with the Scheduled Offence. The expression “any other offence” is wide and expansive in nature. The connection with the Scheduled Offence could be by any other Scheduled Offence under the NIA Act or any other offence which may not be a Scheduled Offence under the provisions of NIA Act but nevertheless has a connection with the Scheduled Offence under the provisions of the NIA Act. Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967: 6. Under the Schedule to the NIA Act, inter alia, the offences under the UAPA are Scheduled Offences. Section 2(1)(g) of the NIA Act defines Scheduled Offence to mean an offence specified in the Schedule to the NIA Act. 6.1 The UAPA in Chapter IV defines a terrorist act in Section 15 and punishment for raising fund for a terrorist act in Section 17 while punishment for a terrorist act is under Section 16.