He seeks a declaration from this Court to the effect that Rule 15 and the various standards prescribed in the rule are mandatory. This entails, according to Mr Gonsalves, that new establishments which do not comply with the standards under Rule 15 cannot get clearances and old establishments must be mandatorily retrofitted in accordance with these rules. Mr Vikramajit Banerjee, the learned Additional Solicitor General, also conceded that Rule 15 read with Sections 44 to 46 of the RPWD Act prescribes a mandatory compliance framework. The Union has also filed written submissions detailing the various steps taken to comply with the standards prescribed in Rule 15 and towards the targets in the Accessible India Campaign. These submissions have been taken on record along with the compliance affidavits filed by the States and Union Territories. In the following section, we analyse the alleged inconsistency in the legal framework. 55 “RPWD Rules” [2024] 11 S.C.R. 999 Rajive Raturi v. Union of India & Ors. i. Accessibility provisions in the RPWD Act and Rules a. RPWD Act 51. The RPWD Act came into force on 19 April 2017.56 The long title of the Act states that it is “An Act to give effect to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and for matters connected therewith and incidental thereto”. 52. Chapter VIII pertains to the ‘Duties and Responsibilities of Appropriate Governments’. The term “appropriate government” has been defined in Section 2(b).57 Section 39 imposes an obligation on the appropriate government, in consultation with the Chief Commissioner or State Commissioner, to conduct, encourage, support or promote awareness campaigns and sensitisation programmes in relation to the protection of the rights of PWDs. 53. Section 40 pertains to “Accessibility” and states that the Central Government, shall, in consultation with the Chief Commissioner, formulate rules for “persons with disabilities laying down the standards of accessibility for physical environment, transportation, information and communication including appropriate technologies and systems, and other facilities and services provided to the public in urban and rural areas.” The word “shall” indicates that the Central Government is mandated to make rules laying down the standards of accessibility. Section 40 must be read with Section 100 of the Act, which prescribes the power of the Central Government to make rules. 54. Section 41 deals with one aspect of accessibility, namely, ‘access to transport’. Sub-section (1) states that the appropriate government shall take suitable measures to provide: a. facilities for PWDs at bus stops, railway stations and airports conforming to the accessibility standards relating to parking spaces, toilets, ticketing counters and ticketing machines; 56 Notification No. S.O. 1215(E) 57 Section 2(b) states: “(b) “appropriate Government” means, — (i) in relation to the Central Government or any establishment wholly or substantially financed by that Government, or a Cantonment Board constituted under the Cantonments Act, 2006 (41 of 2006), the Central Government; (ii) in relation to a State Government or any establishment, wholly or substantially financed by that Government, or any local authority, other than a Cantonment Board, the State Government.” 1000 [2024] 11 S.C.R.