He pointed out that the share transfer deeds put forth by the appellants projected a total consideration of ₹14,67,41,557/- , but only the sum of ₹14,66,39,400/- had been remitted, leaving a balance of ₹1,02,157/-. He also alleged that the format of the appellants’ share certificates was not that of the company and the folio numbers therein were different, indicating that they had been fabricated by the appellants. 7. The appellants filed separate rejoinders to the replies filed by respondent Nos. 1 and 2. Therein, they reiterated their claims and asserted that their petition was within time. They denied the financial transactions allegedly arranged by L. Ramesh and the alleged fabrication of documents by them. They pointed out that the signature of respondent No.2 appeared in the share transfer forms at the correct place, manifesting that the same were not fabricated on signed blank papers. As regards the shortfall in the consideration, [2024] 9 S.C.R. 241 Chalasani Udaya Shankar and others v. M/s. Lexus Technologies Pvt. Ltd. and other they asserted that a portion of the stamp duty on the transfer was to be borne by respondent No.2 and it was accordingly adjusted, leading to the lesser sum of ₹14,66,39,465/- being paid. 8. Thereupon, the NCLT, through the Member (Judicial), passed an interim on 27.06.2019. Having considered the matter, the NCLT noted as follows: Respondent No.2 had addressed letter dated 29.12.2014 (Annexure A-1) to the Board of Directors of the company expressing his intention to sell his shareholding therein. A Board Meeting was held on 24.01.2015 to consider his request and it was found that there was no buyer within the existing shareholders who was willing to purchase the shares of respondent No. 2. This was stated to have been communicated to respondent No.2 leaving it open to him to make his own arrangement for sale of his shares to outsiders. It was in these circumstances that the appellants purchased the shares of respondent No.2. By e-mail dated 20.04.2015 (Annexure A-4), respondent No.3 sought the approval of the other shareholders for sale of these shares in favour of the appellants. A meeting was held on 27.04.2015 in this regard and share certificates were also issued on the said date to the appellants. These share certificates were signed by respondent Nos. 3 and 4 as Directors of the company. It was noted that respondent No. 2 had contested this claim, by asserting that respondent Nos. 3 and 4 were not even in India on the said date and that the share certificates were fabricated. Various discrepancies were pointed out by him in the said certificates, including absence of the signature of the company secretary. The NCLT, however, noted that respondent No.2 did not dispute the receipt of monies from the appellants. Further, the NCLT also noted that respondent No.2 did not dispute his signatures appearing in the share certificates and share transfer forms but his attempt was to explain the same, by claiming that L. Ramesh had obtained blank papers from him which had been misused.