That apart, the subsequent purchaser being a bona fide purchaser of the property for value, this Court may not disturb the status quo. 10. Mr. Guru Krishna Kumar, learned senior counsel for the buyer, argued that the view taken by the High Court is correct, well-reasoned, not perverse and a plausible view; hence, it does not warrant interference. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1111 R. Kandasamy (Since Dead) & Ors. v. T.R.K. Sarawathy & Anr. 10.1. First, Mr. Kumar contended that both the Trial Court and High Court have concurrently found that time is not the essence of the contract. While inviting our attention to several documents on record, Mr. Kumar contended that the following conduct of the sellers itself evinced that for them, time was not of the essence: i. the sellers received payments on 5th June 2004 and 24th July 2005, which is after the final date that they say was fixed for performance of the Agreement, i.e. 19th May 2005; ii. even though they purportedly cancelled the Agreement vide telegram dated 11th March 2006, in their subsequent letters dated 23rd March 2006, 24th March 2006 and 6th April 2006, they have given extensions to the buyer in a piecemeal manner; iii. and the sale deed could not have been executed by the sellers unless they evicted all tenants. Since such eviction is an uncertain event, time could not have been of the essence. 10.2. Secondly, Mr. Kumar submitted that the sellers have delineated a conduct full of blemishes, elaborated below, which disentitles them from discretionary relief of specific performance: i. vide their letter dated 23rd February 2006, sellers purportedly cancelled the Agreement, then taking a volte face, vide letter dated 11th March 2006, the sellers conveyed that they were ready to sell the property; ii. the sellers never furnished the original title deeds for inspection by the buyer; iii. though the sellers returned the pay of Rs. 25 lakh vide letter dated 11th February 2006, it was sent to a wrong address; iv. and the sellers never obtained and produced any document from their bank, viz. M/s Vijaya Bank, showing the status of the pay issued by the buyer, even though the same could have been obtained by them and this they did deliberately, so that the court can conclude that either the buyer has encashed the same or that the buyer never returned the same to sellers. 1112 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Mr. Kumar cited the decision of this Court in Ferrodous Estates (P) Ltd v P. Gopirathnam12 and relied on the following paragraph: “54. ...As has been found earlier in this , the Sellers were held to have taken up dishonest pleas and also held to have been in breach of a solemn agreement in which they were to obtain the Urban Land Ceiling permission which, if not obtained, would, under the agreement itself, not stand in the way of the specific performance of the agreement between the parties. He who asks for equity must do equity.