3. From plain reading of sale deed dated 29.08.1986 in favour of defendant Nos.2 and 3 respectively, it is apparent that out of total sale consideration of Rs.25,000/-, Rs.10,000/- is alleged to have already been paid at home whereas Rs.5,000/- was paid in cash before the Sub-Registrar and the balance amount of Rs.10,000/- was kept as a mortgage amount for redemption. No evidence has come on record that there was any prior agreement to sell in favour of the defendant Nos.2 and 3. 4. As per defendant Nos.2 and 3, they paid the amount of Rs.10,000/- at home and Rs.5,000/- at the time of registration. However, no evidence has been adduced to establish that this amount was withdrawn from any bank or from any other source.” 11. Section 19 of the Specific Relief Act upon which strong reliance is sought to be placed has been interpreted by this Court in “R.K. Mohammed Ubaidullah v. Hajee C. Abdul Wahab 2000 (6) SCC 402 wherein this Court held as follows:- “14. Section 19 of the Specific Relief Act, 1963, to the extent it is relevant, reads: “19. Relief against parties and persons claiming under them by subsequent title. - Except as otherwise provided by this Chapter, specific performance of a contract may be enforced against- 880 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (a) either party thereto; (b) any other person claiming under him by a title arising subsequently to the contract, except a transferee for value who has paid his money in good faith and without notice of the original contract; (c)-(e) … … … As can be seen from Sections 19(a) and (b) extracted above specific performance of a contract can be enforced against (a) either party thereto; and (b) any person claiming under him by a title arising subsequent to the contract, except a transferee for value who has paid his money in good faith and without notice of the original contract. Section 19(b) protects the bona fide purchaser in good faith for value without notice of the original contract. This protection is in the nature of exception to the general rule. Hence, the onus of proof of good faith is on the purchaser who takes the plea that he is an innocent purchaser. Good faith is a question of fact to be considered and decided on the facts of each case. Section 52 of the Penal Code emphasises due care and attention in relation to good faith. In the General Clauses Act emphasis is laid on honesty. 15. Notice is defined in Section 3 of the Transfer of Property Act. It may be actual where the party has actual knowledge of the fact or constructive. “A person is said not have notice” of a fact when he actually knows that fact, or when, but for wilful abstention from an inquiry or search which he ought to have made, or gross negligence, he would have known it. Explanation II of said Section 3 reads: “Explanation II-Any person acquiring any immovable property or any share or interest in any such property shall be deemed to have notice of the title if any, of any person who is for the time being in actual possession thereof.” Section 3 was amended by the Amendment Act of 1929 in relation to the definition of “notice”.