VI. The first respondent has not submitted the valid experience certificate issued by the department / board / corporation / company / statutory body / commission / authority of the Government of Haryana; therefore, the scrutiny committee has not considered the so-called experience of the first respondent and allotted her marks which is justified on facts and in the circumstances. VII. The last candidate who was selected (securing 75 marks) is still 8 ranks higher than the first respondent. If the relief granted by the High Court is upheld, then the seniority of the appointed candidates will have to be disturbed. Moreover, the select list having been exhausted, the appointment cannot be given to the first respondent. 7. Based on these grounds, interference with the impugned and of the Division Bench was claimed by the University. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 961 Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University, Hisar & Anr. v. Monika & ors. 8. Representing the first respondent, her learned counsel contended that the and of the Single Judge is well-considered and well-reasoned; hence, it is unexceptionable and no interference is warranted. 9. It was further contended that: I. The first respondent though had rendered services to the University on contract, she had done the work like other similarly situated persons working under either the outsourcing policy or on regular basis. II. As per the Policy, the essential requirement of experience is that the candidate must be working in any department of the Government of Haryana irrespective of the mode of recruitment because government institutes can hire manpower in any of the two modes and in both the cases, work is done in the government department. III. The University did not disclose the fact that the post of Clerk- cum-Typist is a sanctioned post. IV. Denying marks of experience to the first respondent is unreasonable, arbitrary and violative of Articles 14, 15, 16, 19 and 21 of the Constitution of India. V. The last candidate selected in the general category secured 76 marks and if the mark (0.5) for experience is granted to the first respondent, she would enter the zone of selection for appointment on the post of clerk. VI. There are 13 posts lying vacant and the selection list is valid for one year. VII. That in the case of Sachivalaya Dainik Vetan Bhogi Karamchari Union v. State of Rajasthan & Ors.,9 this Court upheld the policy of the State of Rajasthan for giving weightage to the services rendered by the employees, where services were used by the State either temporarily or on ad-hoc basis. 9 (2017) 11 SCC 421. 962 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports VIII. The University has also issued 2nd Appointment List wherein, two candidates who have secured 75 marks have been selected and appointed for the said post, i.e., the third and the fourth respondent. 10. Learned counsel concluded by submitting that the University read words in the Advertisement to exclude the first respondent from the zone of consideration, which was rightly interdicted by the Single Judge and the Division Bench in its concurrent findings.