After referring to the relevant paragraphs from the said decisions in Shiva Kumar this Court held as follows: - “13.Hence, we have no manner of doubt that even in a case where capital punishment is not imposed or is not proposed, the Constitutional Courts can always exercise the power of imposing a modified or fixed-term sentence by directing that a life sentence, as contemplated by “secondly” in Section 53 of the IPC, shall be of a fixed period of more than fourteen years, for example, of twenty years, thirty years and so on. The fixed punishment cannot be for a period less than 14 years in view of the mandate of Section 433A of Cr.P.C.” 120 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 14. In view of the decisions referred (supra) and taking note of the position that when once the conviction is sustained under Section 376 AB, IPC the fixed term punishment could not be for a period of less than 20 years. Evidently, the High Court had referred, in paragraph 33 of the impugned , to decisions where minor girls were raped and murdered, but did not pointedly consider whether for the conviction under Section 376 AB, IPC involving commission of rape of victim, aged 7 years not coupled with murder what would be the comeuppance, after deciding to commute the capital sentence. 15. We have taken note of the hapless situation of the victim after being taken to a temple by the petitioner-convict. The evidence would reveal that unmindful of the holiness of the place he disrobed her and himself and raped her. When such an act was done by the petitioner, who was then aged 40 years and X who was then aged only 7 years and the evidence that when PW-2 and PW-14 reached the place of occurrence, blood was found oozing from the private parts of the disrobed child. The High Court had rightly considered the aggravating and mitigating circumstances while commuting the capital sentence into life imprisonment which going by the provisions under Section 376 AB, IPC means rest of the convict’s natural life. For effecting such commutation, the High Court also considered the question whether there is possibility for reformation and rehabilitation of the petitioner and opined that it is not a case in which the alternative punishment would not be sufficient in the facts of the case. But then, it is noted that if the victim is religious every visit to any temple may hark back to her the unfortunate, barbaric action to which she was subjected to. So also, the incident may haunt her and adversely impact in her future married life. 16. Then, we are also to take into account the present age of the petitioner and the fact that he has already undergone the incarceration. On consideration of all such aspects, we are of the considered view that a fixed term of sentence of 30 years, which shall include the period already undergone, must be the modified sentence of imprisonment.