8.3. Only on the payment of deficit stamp duty along with ten times penalty, the suit agreement is relied in evidence. 8.4. The text used in Sections 34 and 39 of the Act cannot be linguistically approximated, as the legislature has not vested 172 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the discretion given to the Deputy Commissioner under Section 39 of the Act in the same way to the adjudicating authorities under Section 34 of the Act. 8.5. Relying on case law, the impugned noted that the adjudicating authorities do not have the discretion to disobey the legislative command to waive or reduce the penalty in any circumstance. The discretion however extends to the grant of a reasonable time for the payment of duty and penalty. 8.6. Thus, through the Impugned , the Learned Single judge concluded that the Review Petition fails, and the appellant was granted a period of six months’ time to pay the deficit stamp duty along with ten times penalty. 9. Hence, the Civil Appeals. 10. We have heard the learned counsel and also Ms. Liz Mathew, who was appointed as Amicus Curiae to assist the Court. II. Submissions 11. Learned counsel for the appellant firstly contends that the suit document conforms to the requirements of the Act and the suit was for injunction. Considering the total circumstances, it is argued that even if the suit document is not stamped correctly but having regard to the s dated 12.08.2017 and 10.08.2018, the trial court ought not to have decided the deficit stamp duty and penalty under Section 34 of the Act. Instead, the trial court ought to have sent the impounded instrument to the District Registrar for determining the stamp duty and the penalty. Thereupon, the District Registrar would have exercised his discretionary jurisdiction under Section 39 of the Act and determined the quantum of penalty payable by the appellant. In the case on hand, the dispute arose on the application filed by the respondent requesting to send the suit document to the District Registrar for determination of duty and penalty. The District Registrar has sent a report on the stamp duty payable but has not collected the deficit stamp duty or levied the penalty on the suit agreement. It is argued that the case falls under Section 37(2) of the Act, and the impugned s have denied the appellant the option to have the penalty decided by the District Registrar. Therefore, the trial court and the High Court have committed an illegality by exercising the jurisdiction under Section 34 of the Act. [2024] 9 S.C.R. 173 Seetharama Shetty v. Monappa Shetty 12. The learned Amicus Curie places reliance on Gangappa and another v. Fakkirappa,1 Trustees of H.C. Dhanda Trust v. State of Madhya Pradesh and others,2 Digambar Warty and others v. District Registrar, Bangalore Urban District and another,3 K. Amarnath v. Smt. Puttamma,4 Suman v. Vinayaka and others,5 Niyaz Ahmed Siddique v. Sanganeria Company Private Limited,6 United Precision Engineers Private Limited v. KIOCL Limited,7 Chilakuri Gangulappa v. Revenue Divisional Officer, Madanpalle,8 and Sri.