This not only requires good physical health but also good mental health. The girl child must be encouraged to bloom into a healthy woman. The girl child must not be deprived of her right of choice.....” (emphasis supplied) 268 [2017] 13 SCR 821 : (2017) 10 SCC 800 [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1607 Society for Enlightenment and Voluntary Action & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. 188. Child marriage inflicts tangible and lifelong physical and mental injuries to its members. The right to health is made illusory by all accounts within such an institution. The effect of child marriage denies women their health which is vital to lead a dignified life. C. Right to childhood: education and development 189. Childhood represents the best of what human life has to offer. A good childhood is marked by limitless imagination and the ability to dream big. The audacity to envision futures filled with success, happiness, divergence and enjoyment occurs naturally to all – but is manifested most authentically in childhood. The right to childhood is the right to be able to develop the experiences of childhood into tangible life skills and intellectual pursuits. It is marked by the expectation of the child that they are not on their own but are entitled to the supportive network of their parents, siblings, family, friends and the entire society. As the saying goes – it takes a village to raise a child. The foremost method by which society commits to developing a child is by imparting education. Institutions of learning are centres for society to channel knowledge and experience and make them available to children. Education allows its recipients to benefit from the best of human advances and claim a degree of ownership in its fruits. 190. Education allows a person to develop and articulate their thoughts and learn the language of global engagement. It is a call for greater emancipation of the mind. Education breathes life into intellect, dimension into perspective and openness in minds. It opens doors to employment opportunities and enables people to stand on their own feet in professional and personal pursuits of life. The detrimental effect of not being educated affects girls most starkly since they are already vulnerable to agents of oppression on account of their gender. Marriage for most women in patriarchal societies is an announcement of educational conclusion. 191. It is uncommon for women to continue education after marriage without the express approval and wish of the in-laws and husband. The imposition of a marital family on the education of women may be an experience common to all women. But when the woman is married as a child, her education is arrested in place during a pivotal period of brain development. The minority of a woman’s age at the time of her marriage has a heightened impact on her education. The 1608 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports right to primary education is a fundamental right expressly enshrined under Article 21-A. 192. However, the right to education under Article 21 holds broader significance.