[Para 10] Case Law Cited Devi Lal v. State of Rajasthan [2019] 1 SCR 168 : (2019) 19 SCC 447; Nikhil Chandra Mondal v. State of West Bengal [2023] 2 SCR 20 : (2023) 6 SCC 605 – referred to. List of Acts Penal Code, 1860; Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973; Evidence Act, 1872. List of Keywords Life Imprisonment; Extra-Judicial confession; Beyond reasonable doubt; Last seen together. Case Arising From CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No.1635 of 2018 From the and dated 07.04.2018 of the High Court of Chhattisgarh at Bilaspur in CRLA No.929 of 2013 468 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Appearances for Parties Shridhar Y. Chitale, Sr. Adv. (Amicus Curiae), Ms. Beleena Biju, Vinayak S. Chitale, Advs. for the Appellant. Mrs. Prerna Dhall, Piyush Yadav, Prashant Singh, Advs. for the Respondent. / of the Supreme Court Abhay S. Oka, J. 1. The Sessions Court convicted the appellant-accused for the offence punishable under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code (for short, ‘IPC’) for committing the murder of Smt Hemwati Bai, who was his stepmother. Appellant was sentenced to undergo life imprisonment. By the impugned , the High Court has dismissed the appeal preferred by the appellant. FACTUAL ASPECT 2. The case of the prosecution in brief is that the appellant had a land dispute with the deceased. The allegation against the appellant is that on 2nd March 2013, he assaulted the deceased. After that, he caught hold of the deceased by her hair and dragged her up to the village pond. The appellant put her head inside the pond water. The deceased was suffocated to death. The first informant–Darshu, PW-4, informed the police that Hemwati Bai died due to drowning. Accordingly, a First Information Report (for short, ‘FIR’) was registered. After the completion of the investigation, a chargesheet was filed against the appellant. The prosecution examined ten witnesses. There is no direct evidence. The prosecution relied upon evidence of PW-1, Sukhmani Bai, the village officer. The prosecution case is that the appellant made an extra-judicial confession before the witness. The prosecution relied upon the evidence of PW-5, Chaprasi, the deceased’s brother. According to PW-5, he saw the appellant holding the hair of the deceased and was taking her towards the pond. Though PW-1 was declared hostile, the Trial Court and High Court relied upon a part of her testimony. The Courts also believed the testimony of PW-5. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 469 Ratnu Yadav v. The State of Chhattisgarh SUBMISSIONS 3. Shri Shridhar Y. Chitale, learned counsel appearing for the appellant as amicus curiae, has taken us through the postmortem report and testimony of relevant prosecution witnesses. Based on the evidence of PW-9, Dr Pankaj Kishore, his submission is that the death was due to drowning, and the prosecution has not discharged the burden on it to prove that it was a homicidal death. He submitted that evidence of PW-1, who was declared as hostile, cannot be believed as in the examination-in-chief, the witness did not depose that the appellant made a confession of killing the deceased.