(iii) Future medical expenses. Non-pecuniary damages (General damages) (iv) Damages for pain, suffering and trauma as a consequence of the injuries. (v) Loss of amenities (and/or loss of prospects of marriage). (vi) Loss of expectation of life (shortening of normal longevity). In routine personal injury cases, compensation will be awarded only under heads (i), (ii)(a) and (iv). It is only in serious cases of injury, where there is specific medical evidence corroborating the evidence of the claimant, that compensation will be granted under any of the heads (ii)(b), (iii), (v) and (vi) relating to loss of future earnings on account of permanent disability, future medical expenses, loss of amenities (and/or loss of prospects of marriage) and loss of expectation of life.” 17. In K. Suresh v. New India Assurance Co. Ltd. [K. Suresh v. New India Assurance Co. Ltd. (2012) 12 SCC 274 : (2013) 2 SCC (Civ) 279 : (2013) 4 SCC (Cri) 638], this Court held as follows : (SCC p. 276, para 2) “2. … There cannot be actual compensation for anguish of the heart or for mental tribulations. The quintessentiality lies in the pragmatic computation of the loss sustained which has to be in the realm of realistic approximation. Therefore, Section 168 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 (for brevity “the Act”) stipulates that there should be grant of “just compensation”. Thus, it becomes a challenge for a court of law to determine “just compensation” which is neither a bonanza nor a windfall, and simultaneously, should not be a pittance.”” 972 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 19. This Court, in the said case, thereafter, formulated various heads such as loss of earnings, expenses related to treatment, attendant charges, pain and suffering and loss of amenities, loss of marriage prospects, future medical treatment. Ultimately, this Court enhanced the compensation awarded by the High Court from Rs. 25,78,501/- to Rs.62,27,000/-. 20. In another case titled Master Ayush (supra), this Court was called upon to adjudicate on an appeal filed by a 5-year-old victim of a road accident seeking enhancement of compensation awarded by the Tribunal. 21. In the said case, Ayush was left as a paraplegic patient as a result of the accident. He was examined by two doctors. He was not able to move both his legs and had complete sensory loss in the legs, urinary incontinence, bowel constipation and bed sore. Ayush was aged about 5 years on the date of the accident, hence, he lost his childhood and became dependant on other(s) for his routine work. 22. This Court, in the said case, relying on the decision of Kajal (supra) enhanced the compensation under the head of loss of future earnings due to permanent disability for life, medical expenses, future medical expenses, pain and suffering and loss of amenities, loss of marriage prospects, attendant charges and conveyance charges. This Court enhanced the compensation awarded to the appellant therein from Rs.13,46,805/- to Rs.49,93,000/-. 23. Recently, this Court in the case of K.S. Muralidhar (supra) on an elaborate consideration of certain authorities (scholarly as also judicial) on the aspect of “pain and suffering” set out the contours.