677 Sunita Devi v. The State of Bihar & Anr. (b) in an appeal from a conviction— (i) reverse the finding and sentence and acquit or discharge the accused, or him to be re-tried by a Court of competent jurisdiction subordinate to such Appellate Court or committed for trial, or (ii) alter the finding, maintaining the sentence, or (iii) with or without altering the finding, alter the nature or the extent, or the nature and extent, of the sentence, but not so as to enhance the same— (c) in an appeal for enhancement of sentence— (i) reverse the finding and sentence and acquit or discharge the accused or him to be re-tried by a Court competent to try the offence, or (ii) alter the finding maintaining the sentence, or (iii) with or without altering the finding, alter the nature or the extent, or, the nature and extent, of the sentence, so as to enhance or reduce the same; (d) in an appeal from any other , alter or reverse such ; (e) make any amendment or any consequential or incidental that may be just or proper: Provided that the sentence shall not be enhanced unless the accused has had an opportunity of showing cause against such enhancement: Provided further that the Appellate Court shall not inflict greater punishment for the offence which in its opinion the accused has committed, than might have been inflicted for that offence by the Court passing the or sentence under appeal.” 678 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 27. An Appellate Court has got ample power to direct re-trial. However, such a power is to be exercised in exceptional cases. The irregularities found must be so material that a re-trial is the only option. In other words, the failure to follow the mandate of law must cause a serious prejudice vitiating the entire trial, which cannot be cured otherwise, except by way of a re-trial. Once such a re-trial is ed, the effect is that all the proceedings recorded by the court would get obliterated leading to a fresh trial, which is inclusive of the examination of witnesses. Nasib Singh v. State of Punjab, (2022) 2 SCC 89 “33. The principles that emerge from the decisions of this Court on retrial can be formulated as under: 33.1. The appellate court may direct a retrial only in “exceptional” circumstances to avert a miscarriage of justice. 33.2. Mere lapses in the investigation are not sufficient to warrant a direction for retrial. Only if the lapses are so grave so as to prejudice the rights of the parties, can a retrial be directed. 33.3. A determination of whether a “shoddy” investigation/trial has prejudiced the party, must be based on the facts of each case pursuant to a thorough reading of the evidence. 33.4. It is not sufficient if the accused/prosecution makes a facial argument that there has been a miscarriage of justice warranting a retrial. It is incumbent on the appellate court directing a retrial to provide a reasoned on the nature of the miscarriage of justice caused with reference to the evidence and investigatory process.