Section 64 of IPC uses the expression ‘offender is sentenced to a fine’. Moreover, the fine is one of the five punishments provided in Section 53. Thus, it is evident that the direction to pay a fine issued against the convicted accused is also a sentence. Under Section 64, the Court is empowered to direct that in [2024] 10 S.C.R. 937 Central Bureau of Investigation v. Ashok Sirpal default of payment of the fine, the offender shall suffer imprisonment for a specific term as directed therein. Therefore, there can be a sentence of fine and a further sentence in default of compliance with the sentence of fine. 6. In paragraph no.36 of the decision of this Court in the case of Satyendra Kumar Mehra,1 this Court held thus: “36. We, however, make it clear that the appellate court while exercising power under Section 389 CrPC can suspend the sentence of imprisonment as well as of fine without any condition or with conditions. There are no fetters on the power of the appellate court while exercising jurisdiction under Section 389 CrPC. The appellate court could have suspended the sentence and fine both or could have directed for deposit of fine or part of fine.” Thus, while convicting an accused, if a direction is issued against him to pay a fine, such a direction can be suspended in the exercise of power under sub-section (1) of Section 389 of the CrPC. 7. Coming back to the impugned , it is clearly mentioned therein that the respondent’s sentence stands suspended pending the hearing of the appeal subject to compliance of furnishing personal bond in the sum of Rs.50,000/-. Perusal of the impugned shows that the High Court was conscious of the fact that as the embezzlement alleged against the respondent and other accused persons was to the tune of Rs.46,00,000/-, the Special Court had sentenced the respondent to pay a fine of Rs.95,00,000/-. The notes that the sentence imposed on the respondent was of both imprisonment and payment of fine. Therefore, on a plain reading of the impugned , the argument of learned ASG that the sentence of the fine was not suspended cannot be accepted. 8. While suspending the sentence, especially the sentence of fine, the Appellate Court can impose conditions. Whether the of suspension of the sentence of fine should be conditional or unconditional depends on the facts of each case and especially the nature of the offence. For example, when there is a sentence of fine imposed while convicting an accused for the offence punishable under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instrument Act, 1881, depending upon the facts of the case, the Appellate Court may impose a condition 938 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of depositing the fine amount or part thereof while suspending the sentence. However, the approach of the Court may be different in case of offences punishable under the IPC and cognate legislations. Whenever a prayer is for suspension of the sentence of fine, the Appellate Court must consider whether the sentence of fine can be suspended unconditionally or subject to conditions.