The trial court also found that Nikka Singh was suffering from cancer and was also a patient of T.B. 19. The trial court also found that the plaintiff is in possession of the suit land as the said fact has been admitted by one of the defendant’s witnesses namely Gurnam Singh. 20. The First Appellate Court set aside the finding of the trial court holding that the trial court was wrongly persuaded by insignificant circumstances to hold that the Will in favour of the defendant nos. 2 to 6 is not genuine and that it is surrounded by suspicious circumstances. The First Appellate Court eventually passed a decree for joint possession in favour of defendant which was assailed by plaintiff Lehna Singh before the High Court by preferring an appeal under Section 41 of the Punjab Act. The High Court, under the impugned , allowed the appeal, set aside the appellate decree passed by the District Judge, Sangrur, restoring the and decree passed by the trial court. 21. The High Court has discussed the evidence threadbare and framed the following substantial questions of law: - (i) Whether the Appellate Court can reverse the findings recorded by the learned trial court without adverting to the specific finding of the trial court? (ii) Whether the passed by the learned lower Appellate Court is perverse and outcome of misreading of evidence? 404 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 22. The High Court answered both the questions of law in favour of the plaintiff/respondent herein (in Civil Appeal) on the reasoning that when the person entitled to the property of the deceased by way of natural succession, is disinherited from the property without giving any reason and the covenants in the Will are also found to be factually incorrect, mere registration of the Will and proof of the same by attesting witnesses could not be treated to be sufficient to over- come the suspicious circumstances as has been done by the First Appellate Court. The High Court also observed that the propounders of the Will were earlier tried for murder of the deceased-testator and there being no evidence on record to show that the deceased had special love and affection with the defendants and when it is proved that the plaintiff is in possession of the land and the defendant and their witnesses actively participated in the execution of the Will, there is glaring suspicious circumstances to hold that the Will is not genuine. It was also observed that the testator was residing with the plaintiff, and it was he who got him admitted in the hospital, it was proved that the plaintiff was taking care of the deceased at the time of his need. Merely because the attesting witnesses had no enmity towards the plaintiff, it cannot dispel the suspicious circumstances surrounded around the Will. 23. It is settled law that the First Appellate Court, while setting aside the and decree of the trial court, is required to meet the reasoning given by the trial court in rejecting the Will, which in the present case has not been done by the First Appellate Court.