3. During trial, prosecution examined 7 witnesses. PW-1 (the first informant – father of the deceased); PW-2 (mother of the deceased); and PW-3 (uncle of the deceased) were family members of the deceased who proved the date of marriage and alleged that the deceased was depressed on account of the demand. PW-4 was the doctor who conducted autopsy of the cadaver. He proved that the deceased had suffered extensive ante-mortem burn injuries which resulted in her death. PW-5 is cousin of the deceased who had arrived at the spot along with PW-1 on receipt of information regarding her death. He is also the inquest witness. PW-6 is the Patwari who made GD entry of the FIR and took initial steps of investigation such as preparation of inquest report and dispatch 5 FIR 822 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of the cadaver for autopsy. PW-7 completed the investigation and submitted charge-sheet. PW-7, inter alia, stated that at the time of inquest the body of the deceased was lying in the courtyard. 4. In their statement recorded under Section 313 CrPC6 the accused admitted: (a) the factum of marriage; (b) the date of marriage; (c) the date of childbirth; (d) that parents of the deceased visited her matrimonial home on 04.01.2007 to see their daughter and the child; and (e) that on 11.01.2007 child naming ceremony was done. The accused, however, denied demand of dowry/ motorcycle/ cash of Rs.50,000/- as well as harassment of the deceased. Jitendra Singh (i.e., husband of the deceased) stated that the deceased committed suicide due to depression on account of staying separate from him as no quarter was allotted to him, and also because a photograph of her with a male stranger was found. He had also stated that at the time of the incident he had gone to collect wood. Accused Shoor Singh (appellant no.1 herein) added that he had gone to Lansdowne at the time of incident. Similarly, accused Gangotri Devi (appellant no.2 herein) stated that she had gone out to wash clothes. 5. The defense had examined 4 witnesses (DW-1 to DW-4) and produced color photographs (Ex Kha-1 to Kha-6). DW-1 stated that the deceased used to accompany her for collecting grass and wood, but she never made any complaint about her harassment on account of dowry demand. Rather, the deceased used to say that if she is not taken by her husband to his workplace she would die. DW-2 stated that in the morning of 17.01.2007 (i.e., date of the incident) she had seen Shoor Singh (appellant no.1 herein) going towards Lansdowne. DW-3 stated that between 12.30 and 1.00 p.m. he saw smoke bellowing from the house of Shoor Singh. When he reached there, he noticed that none of the accused were there, and the body of the deceased was lying outside the shutter 6 Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 [2024] 9 S.C.R. 823 Shoor Singh & Anr. v. State of Uttarakhand in a burnt condition. Whereafter, he went to inform Gangotri Devi who was washing clothes near a water well.