To illustrate, a person is in custody in connection with a case and a new case is registered against him for commission of some other offence. Two recourses are available to the police in such a situation - firstly to seek an of remand from the Court if the presence of the accused is required for investigation or secondly, to arrest him, as and when he is released from custody in connection with the previous case. It is only in the second scenario that an of anticipatory bail can become effective because only then can he be ‘arrested’. It is trite law that the distinction between an in case of custody bail and anticipatory bail is that the former is passed when the accused is already arrested and in custody and operates as soon as it is passed (subject to submission of bail bonds etc), while the latter operates at a future time-when the person not being in custody, is 276 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports arrested. This, according to the considered view of this Court, is the crux of the issue. To amplify, since an granting anticipatory bail becomes effective only when the person is arrested and as it is not possible to arrest a person already in custody, it follows that when, on being released from custody in the former case, he is sought to be arrested in the new case, there is no reason why he shall be restrained from moving the Court beforehand to arm himself with necessary protection in the form of anticipatory bail to protect himself from such a situation. If such an is passed by the Court in his favour, it shall become effective if and when he is arrested as normally happens. The only catch is, he cannot be arrested as long as he is in custody in the first-mentioned case. So, his right to obtain an in the new case beforehand that can be effective only upon his release from the first- mentioned case cannot be denied under the scheme of the Code. 14. Another aspect must also be taken into consideration - when a person is in custody in connection with a case and a new case gets registered against him, it is, for all practical purposes a separate case altogether. This implies all rights conferred by the statute on the accused consequent upon registration of a case against him as well as the investigating agency are independently protected. There is no provision in the Code that takes away the right of the accused to seek his liberty or of the investigating agency to investigate into the case only because he is in custody in another case. As already stated, the accused can exercise his right of moving the court for anticipatory bail which would of course be effective only upon his release from the earlier case and in the event of his arrest in the subsequent case. Similarly, the right of the investigating agency to investigate/interrogate in the subsequent case can be exercised by seeking remand of the accused from the court in the subsequent case.