II. Secondly, the proceedings must be one from amongst the six types as described in paragraph 65 of this , or of a similar nature, i.e. ejusdem generis to the said six types of proceedings. III. Thirdly, the proceedings must have the effect of threatening the assets of the sick company and interfering with the formulation, consideration, finalisation or implementation of the scheme. 98. Applying the aforesaid tests to the facts of the present case, we have already observed that requirement (i) is fulfilled. The proceeding in question being a suit for recovery of money, requirement (ii) is also satisfied. However, we are of the considered opinion that the third requirement is not fulfilled. We say so because the suit for recovery was not of a nature which could have proved to be a threat to the properties of the defendant sick company or would have adversely impacted the scheme of revival. The suit was a simple suit for recovery of money towards the dues arising under the alleged illegal deductions under the contract. This cannot be said to be a proceeding in the nature of execution, distress or the like and hence the suit was not hit by Section 22(1) of the 1985 Act. 99. By no stretch of imagination could it be said that the legislature intended to include even the proceedings for the adjudication of the liabilities not admitted by a sick company within the protective ambit of Section 22(1) of the 1985 Act. Such an adjudicatory process only determines the liability of the defendant towards the plaintiff, and does not threaten the assets of the sick company or interfere with the formulation of the scheme unless execution proceedings are initiated pursuant to the completion of such adjudicatory process. In the case of Jay Engineering (supra), it was rightly observed by this Court in the context of arbitration proceedings under the 1993 Act for the adjudication of claims, that while the execution of an award would definitely be suspended under Section 22(1) of the 1985 378 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Act, the adjudicatory process for arriving at such an award cannot be said to be suspended by the said provision. This position also seems to be justified in light of the fact that the proceedings before the BIFR under the 1985 Act were generally long-drawn and time consuming and it would subserve the interest of justice if a party was prevented even from proving the debt/liability of the sick company for the entirety of that lengthy period. 100. We may also look at Section 22(1) of the 1985 Act by applying the mischief rule of interpretation. G.P. Singh in his authoritative commentary on the interpretation of statutes describes the mischief rule of construction as follows: “The rule which is also known as ‘purposive construction’ or ‘mischief rule’, enables consideration of four matters in construing an Act: (i) What was the law before the making of the Act, (ii) What was the mischief or defect for which the law did not provide, (iii) What is the remedy that the Act has provided, and (iv) What is the reason of the remedy.