758 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports with the powers and is expected to discharge its duties in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution and the laws as enacted by the competent Legislature. The adjudicatory function is entrusted to the Judiciary. In several s, this Court has reiterated the principle governing the separation of powers. 35. In the case of In Rai Sahib Ram Jawaya Kapur and others v. State of Punjab,20 a Constitution Bench of this Court observed thus: “It may not be possible to frame an exhaustive definition of what executive function means and implies. Ordinarily the executive power connotes the residue of governmental functions that remain after legislative and judicial functions are taken away. The Indian Constitution has not indeed recognised the doctrine of separation of powers in its absolute rigidity but the functions of the different parts or branches of the Government have been sufficiently differentiated and consequently it can very well be said that our Constitution does not contemplate assumption, by one organ or part of the State, of functions that essentially belong to another.” 36. It could thus be seen that the Constitution Bench of this Court has held that our Constitution does not contemplate assumption, by one organ or part of the State, of functions that essentially belong to another. 37. In the case of Indira Nehru Gandhi v. Raj Narain and another (supra) reiterating the position that the principle of separation of power is a part of the basic structure, a Constitution Bench of this Court held thus: “The political usefulness of the doctrine of separation of powers is now widely recognized though a satisfactory definition of the three functions is difficult to evolve. But the function of the Parliament is to make laws, not to decide cases. The British Parliament in its unquestioned supremacy could enact a legislation for the settlement of a dispute or it could, with impunity, legislate for the boiling of 20 [1955] 2 SCR 225 : AIR 1955 SC 549 [2024] 11 S.C.R. 759 In Re: Directions in The Matter of Demolition of Structures the Bishop of Rochester’s cook. The Indian Parliament will not direct that an accused in a pending case shall stand acquitted or that a suit shall stand decreed… The reason of this restraint is not that the Indian Constitution recognizes any rigid separation of powers. Plainly, it does not. The reason is that the concentration of powers in any one organ may, by upsetting that fine balance between the three organs, destroy the fundamental premises of a democratic government to which we are pledged.” 38. The Constitution Bench of this Court though admits that the Indian Constitution does not recognize any rigid separation of powers, yet holds that, by upsetting the fine balance between the three organs, the fundamental premises of a democratic government to which we have pledged, will be destroyed. The Court observed that the Indian Parliament will not direct that an accused in a pending case shall stand acquitted or that a suit shall stand decreed.