The Bank had rightly pursued its remedy under Section 14 for seeking physical possession in line with the decision of this Court in Blue Coast Hotels (supra) and the parties now cannot be permitted to seek the same in the present contempt petitions and the miscellaneous application. 91. He submitted that the aforesaid application of the Bank under Section 14 came to be allowed, which was later challenged before the DRT wherein the Tribunal refused to stay the same. Against this an appeal was preferred wherein the DRAT granted status quo on the ground that possession notice had not been given by the bank/ tehsildar. Rather than challenging the aforesaid , the petitioner and the Bank have mischievously preferred the present contempt petitions and miscellaneous application respectively as an attempt to short circuit the process of law for obtaining physical possession. 92. He further argued that the scope of proceedings before this Court in the Main Appeals as evident from the questions of law framed therein, [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1659 Celir LLP v. Mr. Sumati Prasad Bafna & Ors. primarily related to the cut-off date to exercise right of redemption under Section 13(8) of the SARFAESI Act and not regarding the validity of the measures taken under the SARFAESI Act, 2002, including the auction process. 93. Since the auction conducted by the Bank by which the Sale Certificate was issued to the petitioner was subject to the outcome of S.A. No. 46 of 2022 pending before the DRT, the petitioner ought not to be permitted to extend the scope of the matter to overcome these proceedings pending in the DRT. 94. He submitted that it is the bona fide understanding of the Subsequent Transferee that the auction by which the petitioner claims its rights is illegal, having regard to the law laid down by this Court in the Main Appeals. He argued that the auction was bad in law as the Bank has violated mandatory statutory requirements for the auction process, more particularly the mandatory 30-days period required to be maintained between the notice to the borrower and the sale notice in terms of Rule 8(6) and 9(1) of the SARFAESI Rules. In the present case both the aforesaid notices were issued on the same date i.e., 12.06.2023 thereby rendering the auction null and void. Thus, the petitioner at based could be said to have acquired only inchoate rights to the Secured Asset subject to the terms of the auction and the validity of the auction proceedings. 95. In light of the above, he submitted that it is the Bonafide understanding of the Subsequent Transferee that the Borrower’s right of redemption stood revived in view of the illegality of the auction proceedings and thus, authenticated and crystalized the Assignment Agreement executed in its favour. 96. He further submitted that neither this Court nor the High Court in the writ petition has delved into the aspect of legality of the auction proceedings, and thus, prayed that this Court be pleased to relegate the parties to an appropriate forum in accordance with law for adjudication of several issues relating to the said property and the illegal process of auction conducted thereto to safeguard its constitutional right enshrined under Article 300A of the Constitution.