Therefore, on one hand, the company has taken a stand that the petitioner is paid the amounts due and payable under the policy and that there is no need to refer the disputes to the arbitration under clause 13 of the policy, on the other hand, the petitioner disputes such case on various grounds. It was stated that amount of Rs. 92,00,388/-is wrongfully deducted while making payment of Rs. 84,19,579/ inasmuch as total claim lodged was Rs. 1,76,19,967/-. 6.1 Therefore, the above aspects indeed travels to the adjudicatory realm, which is the function to be discharged by the arbitrator. When the claim is disputed, it is the arbitrator who may competently decide the claim. Arbitrability of the dispute is also to be decided by the arbitrator. While exercising the powers under section 8 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996, such questions cannot be gone into by this Court and when there is an arbitration clause, the aspects are to be decided by the arbitrator for such purpose. 6.2 Following observations of the Supreme Court in Oriental Insurance Company Ltd. vs. Dicitex Furnishing Ltd. [(2020) 4 SCC 621], may be pertinently noticed, “...an application under Section 11(6) is in the form of a pleading which merely seeks an of the court, for appointment of an arbitrator. It cannot be conclusive of the pleas or contentions that the claimant or the concerned party can take, in the arbitral proceedings. At this stage, therefore, the court which is required to ensure that an arbitrable dispute exists, has to be prima facie convinced [2024] 7 S.C.R. 857 SBI General Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Krish Spinning about the genuineness or credibility of the plea of coercion; it cannot be too particular about the nature of the plea, which necessarily has to be made and established in the substantive (read: arbitration) proceeding. If the court were to take a contrary approach and minutely examine the and plea judge its credibility or reasonableness, there would be a danger of its denying a forum to the applicant altogether, because rejection of the application would render the finding (about the finality of the discharge and its effect as satisfaction) final, thus, precluding the applicant of itsright event to approach a civil court.” 6.3 In the proceedings under section 8 of the Arbitration Act, it is not the function of the Court to examine in detail, the extant and nature of dispute, if dispute exist is referable to the arbitration clause occurring in the agreement between the parties, the appointment of arbitrator has to follow. 6.4 It is observed that this Court has not expressed any opinion on merits of the dispute and arbitrability thereof. 6.5 In view of the above discussion, the prayer made in the present application for appointment of arbitrator shall have to be adverted to. 7. In the result, the Registry is directed to list the same before the appropriate Bench in accordance with roster for the purpose of passing the regarding appointment of arbitrator.” 24.