132 [2024] 1 S.C.R. DIGITAL SUPREME COURT REPORTS 37. In Jaypee Kensington (supra), it has been held that the dissenting financial creditor, if the occasion arises, is entitled to receive the extent of value in money equal to the security interest held by him. It would not be proper to read Jaypee Kensington (supra), as laying down that the dissenting financial creditor would be entitled to the extent of amounts receivable by him in the resolution plan. This would undo the very object and purpose of the amendment. It would make the portion of Section 30(2)(b)(ii) specifying the amount to be paid to such creditor in accordance with Section 53(1), redundant and meaningless. 38. Our reasoning finds resonance in the reasoning given in Jaypee Kensington (supra), which states that for the purpose of discharge of obligation mentioned in the second part of Section 30(2)(b) of the Code, the dissenting financial creditors are to be paid an amount quantified in terms of the proceeds of assets receivable under Section 53 of the Code. This amount payable is to be paid on priority over the dissenting counterparts. However, Section 30(2) refers only to the sum of money and nothing else, that is, it does not permit the dissenting financial creditor to enforce the security and sell the same. This would be counterproductive and may nullify the resolution plan. What the dissenting financial creditor is entitled to is the payment, which should not be less than the amount/value of the security interest held by them. The security interest gets converted from the asset to the value of the asset, which is to be paid in the form of money. This is clear from the relevant portions of paragraphs 164.1, 164.2, 166.4, and 167 in Jaypee Kensington (supra), which read as under: “164.1. Therefore, when, for the purpose of discharge of obligation mentioned in the second part of clause (b) of Section 30(2) of the Code, the dissenting financial creditors are to be “paid” an “amount” quantified in terms of the “proceeds” of assets receivable under Section 53 of the Code; and the “amount payable” is to be “paid” in priority over their assenting counterparts, the statute is referring only to the sum of money and not anything else. In the frame and purport of the provision and also the scheme of the Code, the expression “payment” is clearly descriptive of the action of discharge of obligation and at the same time, is also prescriptive of the mode of undertaking such [2024] 1 S.C.R. 133 DBS BANK LIMITED SINGAPORE v. RUCHI SOYA INDUSTRIES LIMITED AND ANOTHER an action. And, that action could only be of handing over the quantum of money, or allowing the recovery of such money by enforcement of security interest, as per the entitlement of the dissenting financial creditor. 164.2. We would hasten to observe that in case a dissenting financial creditor is a secured creditor and a valid security interest is created in his favour and is existing, the entitlement of such a dissenting financial creditor to receive the “amount payable” could also be satisfied by allowing him to enforce the security interest, to the extent of the value receivable by him and in the of priority available to him.