The allotment was made in relaxation of the issued in GoM No. 243 dated 28.02.2005, subject to the guidelines and filing of affidavit proforma 1 and 2 appended to the . The stipulations of the GoM were:- • 72 acres of land was to be allotted in Survey No. 276 of Puppalaguda Village, Rajendranagar Mandal to the MLAs and MPs. • 38 acres of land was to be allotted in Survey No. 149 of Nanakramguda Village, Rajendranagar Mandal in favour of Judges, people of eminence, and serving left over officers of pre-1989 AIS batches. 1382 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports • 32 acres of land was to be allotted in Survey No. 454/1 of Puppalaguda Village, Rajendranagar Mandal in favour of serving post-1989 AIS officers and serving AIS officers of other cadre with Andhra Pradesh nativity who are working or had worked on deputation in Andhra Pradesh. • 33 acres of land was to be allotted in Survey No. 132 of Vattinagulapalli Village to AIS officers serving post 1989, in the of seniority. • 32 acres of land was to be allotted in Survey No. 332 of Nizampet Village and 38 acres of land was to be allotted in Survey No. 35/2 of Pet Basheerabad Village to media persons. • Judges of the High Court, MPs, MLAs, serving AIS officers and persons of eminence were to be allotted plots of 500 square yards. • Former members of the Legislative Assembly, their widows and working journalists were to be allotted plots of 300 square yards. • The land was to be allotted to Hyderabad Urban Development Authority,10 which in turn would develop layouts in the five blocks at the respective locations for allotment of housing sites to individuals. • Advance possession of the land would be given to HUDA. • HUDA will commence work from its own reserves. Each allottee would reimburse the said amount to HUDA as per the time schedule fixed. • Format of the townships was to be based on the gated community concept. • Appendix to the GoM stated that the allotment to the members of Legislature, Judiciary, Executive and the press was a one-time beneficial measure, irrespective of any other private ownership of land, to ensure equity and to avoid discrimination. • The appendix laid down the details including approximate number of housing sites etc. with stipulation regarding the size of the plots which would be allotted. 10 For short, “HUDA”. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1383 State of Andhra Pradesh and Others v. Dr. Rao, V.B.J. Chelikani and Others • The general conditions of eligibility read: o Members of the categories listed at serial no. 3 to 6 under item 1, i.e. Judges of the High Court of Andhra Pradesh, AIS officers, persons of eminence and journalists, should not have availed any benefit of allotment of land in the cities of Hyderabad, Secunderabad, and Ranga Reddy district or any other district. o All the sitting MLAs and MPs were to be given a plot, provided they did not have a house or housing site in Hyderabad or Secunderabad.