An anomalous situation would arise if a non-compliance or delayed compliance of Section 52A is held to be vitiating the trial or entitling the accused to be released on bail, though he is found to have possessed the contraband substance, and even if the statutory presumption is not rebutted by him. Such could not be the intention of the legislature. 26. It is further pertinent to note that as per the settled legal position even the evidence collected by an illegal search or seizure could not be excluded or discarded. Whether the evidence collected by an illegal search or seizure is admissible or not has been considered by this Court in a series of decisions and one of the earliest decisions is the decision of the Constitution Bench in case of Pooran Mal Vs. Director of Inspection (Investigation) New Delhi and Others (supra). It was observed therein that: “24. So far as India is concerned its law of evidence is modelled on the rules of evidence which prevailed in English Law, and Courts in India and in England have consistently refused to exclude relevant evidence merely on the ground that it is obtained by illegal search or seizure.” [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1427 Narcotics Control Bureau v. Kashif 27. Of course, the subsequent Constitution Bench in case of State of Punjab vs. Baldev Singh,5 while considering the question whether the procedure laid down under Section 50 of NDPS Act is mandatory or not, has explained that the in Pooran Mal case cannot be understood to have laid down the law that an illicit article seized during a search of a person on a prior information, conducted in violation of the provisions of Section 50 of the Act, can by itself be used as evidence of unlawful possession of the illicit article on the person from whom the contraband has been seized during the illicit search. The Constitution Bench therefore further held that the question of admissibility of evidence, which may be relevant to the question in issue, has to be decided in the context and the manner in which the evidence was collected and was sought to be used. 28. In case of State of H.P. vs. Pirthi Chand and Another 6 this Court following the observations made by the Constitution Bench in Pooran Mal case held as under: - “4. It is to be seen whether the accused has been afforded such a right and whether the authorized officer has violated the mandatory requirement, as a question of fact, has to be proved at the trial. In Pooran Mal v. Director of Inspection (Investigation) [(1974) 1 SCC 345: 1974 SCC (Tax) 114] a Constitution Bench of this Court had held that power of search and seizure, is, in any system of jurisprudence, an overriding power of the State for the protection of social security and that power is necessarily regulated by law. A search by itself is not a restriction on the right to hold and enjoy property, though seizure is a temporary restriction to the right of possession and enjoyment of the property seized.