Mr R Venkatramani, learned Attorney General for India and Mr Tushar Mehta, learned Solicitor General of India, representing the respondents, countered the above understanding. Their position was supported by Mr Rakesh Dwivedi and Mr Gopal Sankarnarayan, learned senior counsel appearing for the intervenors. Their arguments may be briefly summarised as follows: (i) When an amendment is set aside, the entire legal effect of the amendment is invalidated and thus the text preceding the amendment will be restored. There are no distinct steps of erasure and insertion. All the stages of the Forty-Second Amendment stand cumulatively negated by the decision in Minerva Mills; (ii) When exercising basic structure scrutiny, this Court grounds its reasoning in the relationship between the unamended provision and the amended provision and the impact the amendment has on the Constitution. If the Court finds an amendment impermissible and invalidates it, the position as it stood prior to the amendment must stand revived for the basic structure theory to have effect. If the invalidation of an amendment by the Court led to some third result, where the insertion was invalidated but the erased text did not revive, this would not result in a return to the unamended Constitution but some third uncontemplated result which may itself violate the basic structure. Thus, the revival of the unamended constitutional provision is the approach consistent with the theoretical foundation of basic structure review; 60 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (iii) The decision of a Constitution Bench of this Court in Supreme Court Advocates-On-Record Association v Union of India40 squarely covers the present scenario and holds that when a constitutional amendment is struck down, the position that existed prior to the amendment stands revived; (iv) This Court in the decisions in Maharao Sahib Shri Bhim Singhji v Union of India,41 Sanjeev Coke and Basantibal Khetan has repeatedly held that Article 31-C as it stood prior to the Forty-Second Amendment is operative; and (v) If the words struck down by Minerva Mills relating to clauses (b) and (c) of Article 39 were omitted by judicial fiat from Article 31-C, the entire provision would be unworkable despite this precise text of Article 31-C having been upheld by thirteen judges in Kesavananda Bharati and the constitutional validity of the provision having been reaffirmed in Waman Rao. Before delving further into our analysis, we may briefly advert to the decisions relied on by the Respondents where this Court has applied Article 31-C after the decision in Minerva Mills. If these decisions provide a cogent answer as to the status of Article 31-C after Minerva Mills, our inquiry need not go any further. 48. In Bhim Singh, a Constitution Bench of this Court upheld the Urban Land (Ceiling and Regulation) Act, 1976 on the ground that the Act gave effect to the Directive Principles in clauses (b) and (c) of Article 39 of the Constitution. The impugned legislation in Bhim Singh sought to inhibit the concentration in ownership of urban land and was inter alia challenged on the ground that it was not in furtherance of clause (b) or (c) of Article 39 and thus not protected under Article 31-C.