Instead of wielding judicial authority against the Appellants, the Trial Magistrate should have exercised prudence, making at least a cursory effort to discern the actual ‘victim’ or ‘victimiser’. The failure to do so is both fallible and atrocious. 34. The sum and substance of the above discussion is that the elementary ingredients of ‘cheating’ and ‘forgery’ are conspicuously missing. Thus, the continuation of the criminal proceedings against the Appellants is nothing but an abuse of the process of law. 640 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports In the context of Section 12(b) of the Passports Act, 1967: 35. In addition to the abovementioned provisions of the IPC, the Appellants have also been accused of committing an offence under Section 12(b) of the Passports Act, 1967. Section 12(b) categorically states that, whoever knowingly furnishes any false information or suppresses any material information, with a view to obtaining a passport or travel document under this Act or without lawful authority, alters or attempts to alter or causes to alter the entries made in a passport or travel document, shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to two years or with fine which may extend to five thousand rupees or with both. 36. As discernible from the language of the provision, what must be established is that the accused knowingly furnished false information or suppressed material information with the intent of obtaining a passport or travel document. In the present case, it is crucial to consider that the State FSL report explicitly stated that the alleged forgery of Respondent No. 2’s signatures on the passport application was inconclusive. Moreover, the cognizance of such like offence can be taken only at the instance of the Prescribed Authority. No complaint to that effect has been disclosed against the Appellants. This Court, therefore, will exercise caution before invoking such severe offences and penalties solely on the basis of conjectures and surmises. The conduct exhibited by Respondent No. 2: 37. Having scrutinised the elements of cheating and forgery, it is also imperative to consider the conduct of Respondent No. 2 since the inception. Firstly, following the solemnisation of the marriage between the concerned parties, the Appellant – wife purportedly endured both physical and mental torture and was further not extended any support by Respondent No. 2 and his family members even after the birth of the minor child. Secondly, the original passport of the minor child was presumed to have been issued with the consent and support of Respondent No. 2. He allegedly even sponsored the travel of his wife and minor son through his brother-in-law for visa purposes, who in his sponsorship letter explicitly cited the passport number of the minor child. Thirdly, Respondent No. 2 chose to lodge the Concerned FIR as a counterblast to the complaint filed by the Appellant – wife in Crime No. 68/2010 in spite of being fully aware of the issuance of the minor child’s passport. Thus, the Appellants were unnecessarily [2024] 1 S.C.R. 641 Mariam Fasihuddin & Anr.