Mr. President: Does anyone else wish to speak? Do you wish to say anything Dr. Ambedkar? The Honourable Dr. B. R. Ambedkar: I do not accept the amendment of Pandit Thakur Das Bhargava. Mr. President: Then I put the amendments. The first is the one with reference to amendment 147. The question is: “That with reference to amendment No. 147 of List IV (Eighth Week), for sub-clause (w) of clause (1) of article 303, the following sub-clause be substituted: — ‘(w) ‘Scheduled Castes’ means such castes, races or tribes or parts of or groups within such castes, races or tribes as are deemed under article 300A of this Constitution to be Scheduled Castes for the purposes of this Constitution; The amendment was adopted”. 36. It is seen from the above Debate that ultimately the original draft Article-300A was approved by the Constituent Assembly,and was re-numbered as Article 341 in the present Constitution. From the bare reading of the Article 341 it is clearly discernible that power of the President is limited to specify the castes or the tribes which shall, for the purposes of the Constitution, be deemed to be Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes in relation to a State or a Union Territory as the case may be. Once the notification is issued under Clause (1) of Article 341, it is only the Parliament which can by law, include in or exclude from the list of Scheduled Castes specified in the notification, any caste, race or tribe or part of or group within any caste, race or tribe, and the notification issued under Clause (1) could not be varied by any subsequent notification. As transpiring from the Constituent Assembly Debates quoted hereinabove, the object of inserting Article 341 was to eliminate the necessity of burdening the Constitution with long list of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. It was proposed that the President, 1614 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports in consultation with the Governor or Ruler of a State should have power to issue a general notification in the Gazette specifying all the Castes and tribes or groups thereof deemed to be Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes for the purposes of the privileges which have been defined for them in the Constitution. The only limitation put was that once a notification has been issued by the President, any elimination from or any addition in the list must be made by the Parliament and not by the President. In the words of Dr. Ambedkar, “the object is to eliminate any kind of political factors having a play in the matter of the disturbance in the Schedule so published by the President.” 37. A Five-Judge Bench in B. Basavalingappa vs. D. Munichinnappa & others16 had held that the object of the provision contained in Article 341 was to avoid all disputes as to whether a particular caste is a Scheduled Caste or not, and only those castes can be Scheduled Castes which are notified in the made by the President under Article 341 after consultation with the Governor where it relates to such caste in a State.