He apprised us of the fact that Section 9(3) permits the Government of India to issue notifications to amend Schedule II to increase or reduce the rate at which royalty is payable. He informed that the rate of royalty for iron ore at present is 15% of average sale price on ad valorem basis. 35. The learned ASG submitted that the computation of the ASP is to be done on a monthly basis and as per Rule 42(3), the ASP of any mineral grade/concentrate for a particular month shall be the weighted average of the ex-mine prices of the non-captive mine. He submitted that the ASP with respect to a particular month is unrelated to the ASP of the previous month and there can be no cumulative effect on the royalty charged. 36. It was submitted that Rule 42(2)(b) of the MCR, 2016 provided that where domestic sale has occurred, the ex-mine price of a mineral grade or concentrate is the “sale value” of the mineral less the actual expenditure incurred towards transportation, loading and unloading, etc. divided by the total quantity sold. 37. The learned senior counsel then proceeded to submit that the term “sale value” is defined in Rule 38 of the MCR, 2016 and the Explanation thereto provides that no deduction from the gross amount will be made in respect of royalty, payments to the DMF and NMET. 38. Mr. Madiyal submitted that the writ petition, challenging the Impugned Explanations, has been filed under Article 32 of the Constitution of [2024] 12 S.C.R. 89 Kirloskar Ferrous Industries Limited & Anr v. Union of India & Ors. India and therefore, is not maintainable as the petitioner ought to have approached the High Court under Article 226. 39. The learned senior counsel referred to the decision of a 5-Judge Bench of this Court in the case of Natural Resources Allocation, In Re: Special Reference No. 1 of 2012 reported in (2012) 10 SCC 1 to submit that the methodology pertaining to disposal of natural resources is an economic policy entailing intricate economic choices. Therefore, the manner of computation of royalty is a matter of policy and must be left to the discretion of the executive and legislative authorities, as the case may be. 40. The learned ASG that the petitioner’s challenge to the Impugned Explanations does not meet the threshold of ‘manifest arbitrariness’ that is, whether an action was done or legislation was enacted capriciously, irrationally and/or without adequate determining principle, and cannot be excessive and disproportionate. He vehemently argued that no evidence or data was provided by the petitioner to show that the Impugned Explanations result in an endless monthly cumulative exaction of royalty. He submitted that the ASP for a succeeding month could in fact be lower than that of the previous month and no consistent monthly cumulative effect was possible. 41. Mr. Madiyal also contended that at the time of the auction of mining leases, the bids submitted are taking into consideration the existing legal regime, which includes Rule 38 of the MCR, 2016 as well as the Explanation thereto, and the bidders are aware that royalty and auction premium is calculated on the basis of the sale value which is inclusive of the royalty and contributions to DMF and NMET of the previous month.