Though the appellant is in jail since the last eight years and evidence of only two witnesses had been recorded, appellant could not be released on bail since he belongs to Nepal and that there is a strong probability of the appellant evading trial by absconding. Accordingly, the bail application has been rejected. 15. Mr. M.S. Khan, learned counsel for the appellant submits that appellant is in custody for more than nine years now. There is no possibility of the criminal trial being concluded in the near future. Therefore, the appellant should be enlarged on bail. 1060 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 16. On the other hand, Ms. Garima Prasad, learned Additional Advocate General for the State of U.P. submits that the charges against the appellant are very serious in nature. Besides, he being a foreign national, there is an attendant flight risk. Therefore, appellant may not be released on bail; instead the trial court may be directed to expedite the trial. Referring to the counter affidavit filed on behalf of the State of U.P., she submits that appellant is an accused under the UAP Act and is, therefore, not entitled to bail. In this connection, she has referred to a recent decision of this Court in Gurwinder Singh Vs. State of Punjab.1 17. Submissions made by learned counsel for the parties have been duly considered. 18. We have already noticed that the appellant is in jail since 23.02.2015. Now we are in July 2024. Nine years have gone by in the meanwhile. As per the impugned , evidence of only two witnesses have been recorded. In the course of hearing, the Bench had queried learned counsel for the parties as to the stage of the trial; how many witnesses the prosecution seeks to examine and evidence of the number of witnesses recorded so far. Unfortunately, counsel for either side could not apprise the Court about the aforesaid. On the contrary, learned state counsel sought for time to obtain instructions. Having regard to the fact that appellant is in custody for more than nine years now, we declined the prayer of the learned state counsel seeking further time. Learned counsel for the parties were also unable to tell us as to whether the State has moved the High Court after the of this Court dated 20.02.2024 and whether any has been passed by the High Court on the same. 19. As already noted above, appellant is in custody for more than nine years now. The impugned says that evidence of only two witnesses have been recorded. In such circumstances, a reasonable view can be taken that the trial is likely to take considerable time. 20. Before proceeding further, let us briefly look at the sections invoked against the appellant. Section 489B IPC deals with the offence of using forged or counterfeit currency notes or bank notes as genuine despite knowing the same to be forged or counterfeit. Conviction 1 [2024] 2 SCR 134 : (2024) SCC Online SC 109 [2024] 7 S.C.R.