In our opinion a sale of a lottery ticket also amounts to the transfer of an actionable claim. 41. A lottery ticket has no value in itself. It is a mere piece of paper. Its value lies in the fact that it represents a chance or a right to a conditional benefit of winning a prize of a greater value than the consideration paid for the transfer of that chance. It is nothing more than a token or evidence of this right. The Court in H. Anraj [(1986) 1 SCC 414 : 1986 SCC (Tax) 190] , as we have seen, held that a lottery ticket is a slip of paper or memoranda evidencing the transfer of certain rights. We agree. 42.Webster’s Words and Phrases, Permanent Edn., Vol. 25-A Supplement defines a “ticket” as “a printed card or a piece of paper that gives a person a specific right, as to attend a theatre, ride on a train, claim 842 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports or purchase, etc.” The Madras High Court in Sesha Ayyar v. Krishna Ayyar [AIR 1936 Mad 225 : ILR 59 Mad 562 (FB)] also held: (AIR p. 227) “Tickets of course are only the tokens of the chance purchased, and it is the purchase of this chance which is the essence of a lottery.” 43. The sale of a ticket does not necessarily involve the sale of goods. For example, the purchase of a railway ticket gives the right to a person to travel by railway. It is nothing other than a contract of carriage. The actual ticket is merely evidence of the right to travel. A contract is not property, but only a promise supported by consideration, upon breach of which either a claim for specific performance or damages would lie (Said v. Butt [(1920) 3 KB 497 : 1920 All ER Rep 232] ). Like railway tickets, a ticket to see a cinema or a pawnbroker’s ticket are memoranda or contracts between the vendors of the ticket and the purchasers. Cases on whether the terms specified on such tickets bind the purchaser are legion. It is sufficient for our purpose to note that tickets are themselves, normally evidence of and in some cases the contract between the buyer of the ticket and its seller. Therefore a lottery ticket can be held to be goods if at all only because it evidences the transfer of a right. 44. The question is, what is this right which the ticket represents? There can be no doubt that on purchasing a lottery ticket, the purchaser would have a claim to a conditional interest in the prize money which is not in the purchaser’s possession. The right would fall squarely within the definition of an actionable claim and would therefore be excluded from the definition of “goods” under the Sale of Goods Act and the sales tax statutes. This was also accepted in H. Anraj [(1986) 1 SCC 414 : 1986 SCC (Tax) 190] when the Court said that to the extent that the sale of a lottery ticket involved a transfer of the right to claim a prize depending on chance, it was an assignment of an actionable claim.