They now become in rem and all creditors of the corporate debtor become stakeholders in the process; and b. Once the petition is admitted, the management of the affairs of the corporate debtor is vested in the IRP and eventually, in the RP. Thus, the corporate debtor no longer exists in the form that it did, before the admission of the petition. Once CIRP is initiated, the interests of the erstwhile management of the corporate debtor must be distinguished from the interests of the corporate debtor. ii. Legal framework for withdrawal and settlement of claims a. Evolution of the legal framework 45. Introduced less than a decade ago, the IBC and the various rules and regulations promulgated under the Act constitute a relatively nascent legal framework. On several occasions, the legislature and the executive have responded to the lacunae in the framework identified by this Court and sought to fill the gaps by legislating, in the form of amendments to the IBC or promulgating rules or regulations, if necessary. The evolution of the legal framework in relation to the withdrawal of CIRP after the admission of an application moved by a creditor is a classic example of this delicate coordination. 1832 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 46. Under Rule 8 of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy (Application to Adjudicating Authority) Rules, 2016,34 the NCLT may permit the withdrawal of applications made by a creditor (under Sections 7, 9 or 10) on a request by the applicant before the admission of the application.35 When the IBC was originally enacted in 2016, it did not contain any provisions, in the text of the Act or its allied rules and regulations, for the withdrawal of CIRP after the application had been admitted. Although there was no express provision in this regard, in several instances, this Court invoked its powers under Article 142 of the Constitution and permitted withdrawal of the CIRP on account of a settlement between the creditor and the corporate debtor after the application had been admitted by the NCLT.36 47. In one such decision of this Court, namely, Lokhandwala Kataria Construction (P) Ltd. v. Nisus Finance and Investment Managers LLP,37 a two-judge bench of this Court invoked its power under Article 142 to record the settlement of the parties and allow the compromise between the creditor and the corporate debtor after the admission of the concerned application. While doing so, this Court also prima facie agreed with the proposition that in view of Rule 8 of the CIRP Rules, the NCLAT cannot use its inherent powers under Rule 11 of the NCALT Rules 2016 to allow a settlement or withdrawal after the admission of the application. 48. The above position was followed by the same Bench of this Court in Uttara Foods & Feeds (P) Ltd. v. Mona Pharmachem,38 while allowing another settlement between the parties under Article 142. However, on this occasion, the bench also observed that instead of all such s coming to this Court to utilize its powers under Article 142, the relevant rules may be amended to account for cases where an agreement has been reached after admission of the application.