The Final Report prepared by Deep Shikha Committee as also known as Private Forest Review Report identified 46.11 sq. km. of area as private forest which has been accepted by the Tribunal in OA No.479 of 2018 vide dated 18.08.2020 and the appeal filed by the State of Goa against the said in Civil Appeal No.01 of 2021 which has been dismissed by this Court by dated 01.02.2021. In other words, the issue relating to identification and demarcation of private forests in the State of Goa has attained finality on three criteria as indicated herein supra pertaining to forest tree composition, contiguous forest land and minimum area should be 5 (five) hectares and canopy density should not be less than 0.4. In the teeth of the afore-stated facts and the s passed by the Tribunals as affirmed by this Court, the State of Goa has issued a gazette notification on 22.09.2022 notifying 46.11 sq. km. as private forest. 734 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 64. It is also curious to note that on the one hand the appellant has been challenging the criteria adopted by Sawant and the Karapurkar Committees for identification of private forest land in the State of Goa before this Court and simultaneously has relied upon the said criteria adopted by these Committees before the Tribunal in this regard. The of the tribunal dated 21.01.2015 rendered in OA No.22 of 2013 (Western Bench) title as ‘Goa Foundation Vs. Union of India and Others’ can be looked up. 65. At the cost of the repetition, it requires to be noticed that appellant is seeking a change in the criteria being followed by State of Goa for identification and demarcation of forest under private ownership or private forest by contending that State should follow the same criteria for identification of forest land as is being used by FSI, Dehradun for describing “forest cover” i.e., all lands more than one hectare area with 10% irrespective of land use, ownership and legal status. This exercise is being carried out by FSI, primarily for assessment of forest and tree cover and monitoring the period change based on satellite remote sensing to: i. Prepare State of Forest report on State-wise Forest cover biennially, providing assessment of latest forest cover in the country and monitoring changes therein; ii. Conduct inventory in forest and non-forest areas and develop database on forest tree resources and prepare thematic maps; iii. Support State/UT Forest Departments in forest resources survey, mapping and inventory. In fact, para 1.3 of the report published by FSI in 2017, the distinction in the term ‘Forest Cover’ and ‘Forest Area’ has been stated as under: “The term “Forest Cover” as used in Indian State of Forest Report refers to all lands more than one hectare in area with a tree canopy of more than 10%, irrespective of land use, ownership and legal status. It may include even orchards, bamboo, palm etc and is assessed through remote sensing. On the other hand, the term ‘Recorded Forest Area’ or ‘Forest Area” refers to all the geographical areas recorded as ‘Forests’ in government records.