The objective of the scheme is to (a) Provide qualitative and competent legal services in criminal matters to all eligible persons (b) To manage and implement legal aid system in a professional manner in criminal matters. As of 31.03.2024, the following are the statistics with regard to the number of Chief Legal Aid Counsels, number of Deputy Chief Legal Aid Counsels and the number of Assistant Legal Aid Counsels. “Till 31.03.2024, Office of LADC was set up in 611 districts across India. Category of LADC Human Resource No. of Chief Legal Aid Counsels 500 No. of Deputy Chief Legal Aid Counsels 713 No. of Assistant Legal Aid Counsels 1193 Total No. of Legal Aid Defence Counsels 2406 Special Campaign for Prisoners 17. The report indicates that NALSA has time and again undertaken special campaigns for prisoners to ensure timely access after 1786 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports recognizing the unique challenges faced by the convicts in accessing justice. The objectives of the Campaign are to (a) Secure appellate rights of the convicts; (b) Ensuring that incarceration does not go beyond the period of their imprisonment or after remission; (c) To secure parole/furlough and remission rights of the convicts. To fully ensure the appellate rights of the convicts, NALSA with the assistance of the DLSA, collects data of each of the convicts from (i) Jail authorities (ii) Courts (iii) High Court Legal Services Committee (iv) Supreme Court Legal Services Committee. Steps are taken to ensure the communication of the status of the appeal filed and the next date of hearing; follow up with regard to the filing of appeals by the legal aid committee and the assigned counsel. 18. After collection of data, the following categorization is made: “• Convicts who are not willing to file appeals/SLPs. • Convicts who have already filed appeals/SLPs through private lawyers. • Convicts who have not at all filed appeals/SLPs but want to file appeal/SLPs through Legal Services Institutions. • Convicts who have sought legal aid for filing appeals/ SLPs but their appeals/SLPs have not been filed due to lack of documents or other reasons. • Convicts whose appeals/SLPs have been filed through legal services authorities but they are not aware about the name of their lawyers and the status of their appeals. • Convicts who have moved bail applications through Legal Services Institutions (LSIs) but are not aware about the status of applications. • Convicts who want to get their matter processed for parole/furlough/remission etc. but are not aware of the processes, and require drafting of applications for it.” Awareness 19. The most important task in any legal service is spreading of its awareness to the needy. The status report of NALSA indicates that [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1787 Suhas Chakma v. Union of India & Ors. convicts were made aware about the availability of free legal services, availability of the right to file Appeals/SLPs and the process of filing the same. This guarantees and effectuates Article 21 inasmuch as for the convict in custody too, who is virtually incommunicado with the outside world, is positively made aware about his rights in the nature of the existence of a right of appeal and the facility available for availing free legal services.