His Lordship found that the legislature can enact a law in respect of one undertaking or a group of persons by treating them as a class by itself provided it exhibits some exceptional features which are not possessed by others. His Lordship further observed that the courts should prima facie lean in favour of constitutionality and support the legislation if it is possible to do so on any reasonable ground. It has been held that it is for the party who attacks the validity of the legislation to place all materials before the court which would go to show that the selection was arbitrary and unsupportable. His Lordship specifically noticed that leave aside placing any material on record, there was not even any allegation/statement placed on record by the petitioner therein. 32. Patanjali Sastri and Das, JJ. disagreed with the majority in the said case. Sastri, J. observed thus: “It is obvious that the legislation is directed solely against a particular Company and shareholders and not against any class or category of companies and no question, therefore, of reasonable legislative classification arises. If a law is made applicable to a class of persons or things and the classification is based upon differentia having a rational relation to the object sought to be attained, it can be no objection to [2024] 10 S.C.R. 467 Khalsa University and Another v. The State of Punjab and Another its constitutional validity that its application is found to affect only one person or thing. For instance, a law may be passed imposing certain restrictions and burdens on joint stock companies with a share capital of, say, Rs 10 crores and upwards, and it may be found that there is only one such Company for the time being to which the law could be applied. If other such companies are brought into existence in future the law would apply to them also, and no discrimination would thus be involved. But the impugned Act, which selects this particular Company and imposes upon it and its shareholders burdens and disabilities on the ground of mismanagement and neglect of duty on the part of those charged with the conduct of its undertaking, is plainly discriminatory in character and is, in my , within the constitutional inhibition of Article 14. Legislation based upon mismanagement or other misconduct as the differentia and made applicable to a specified individual or corporate body is not far removed from the notorious parliamentary procedure formerly employed in Britain of punishing individual delinquents by passing bills of attainder, and should not, I think, receive judicial encouragement. It was next urged that the burden of proving that the impugned Act is unconstitutional lay on the petitioner, and that, inasmuch as he has failed to adduce any evidence to show that the selection of this Company and its shareholders for special treatment under the impugned Act was arbitrary, the application must fail. Whilst all reasonable presumption must undoubtedly be made in support of the constitutional validity of a law made by a competent legislature, the circumstances of the present case would seem, to my mind to exclude such presumption.