To make the position clear, though Section 145 read with Section 161 of the Evidence Act deals with the right of a party including an accused, such a right is limited and restrictive when it is applied to Section 172 of CrPC. Suffice it is to state, that the said right cannot be declined when the author of a case diary uses it to refresh his memory or the court uses it for the purpose of contradiction. Therefore, we have no hesitation in holding that Section 145 and Section 161 of the Evidence Act on the one hand and Section 172(3) of CrPC on the other are to be read in consonance with each other, subject to the limited right conferred under sub-section (3) of Section 172 of CrPC. Balakram v. State of Uttarakhand and Others, (2017) 7 SCC 668, “9. The aforementioned provisions are to be read conjointly and homogenously. It is evident from sub- section (2) of Section 172 CrPC, that the trial court has unfettered power to call for and examine the entries 796 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports in the police diaries maintained by the investigating officer. This is a very important safeguard. The legislature has reposed complete trust in the Court which is conducting the inquiry or the trial. If there is any inconsistency or contradiction arising in the evidence, the Court can use the entries made in the diaries for the purposes of contradicting the police officer as provided in sub-section (3) of Section 172 CrPC. It cannot be denied that the Court trying the case is the best guardian of interest of justice. Under sub-section (2) the criminal court may send for diaries and may use them not as evidence, but to aid it in an inquiry or trial. The information which the Court may get from the entries in such diaries usually will be utilised as foundation for questions to be put to the police witness and the court may, if necessary in its discretion use the entries to contradict the police officer, who made them. But the entries in the police diary are neither substantive nor corroborative evidence, and that they cannot be used against any other witness than against the police officer that too for the limited extent indicated above. 10. Coming to the use of police diary by the accused, sub- section (3) of Section 172 clearly lays down that neither the accused nor his agents shall be entitled to call for such diaries nor he or they may be entitled to see them merely because they are referred to by the Court. But, in case the police officer uses the entries in the diaries to refresh his memory or if the Court uses them for the purpose of contradicting such police officer, then the provisions of Sections 145 and 161, as the case may be, of the Evidence Act would apply. Section 145 of the Evidence Act provides for cross-examination of a witness as to the previous statements made by him in writing or reduced into writing and if it was intended to contradict him in writing, his attention must be called to those portions which are to be used for the purpose of contradiction.