38. From the result sheet, which has been reproduced in para 11, it has emerged that while the appellant is reflected to have polled twelve votes, eight votes cast in favour of the appellant were treated as invalid. As detailed above, each of those eight invalid votes was in fact validly cast in favour of the appellant. Adding the eight invalid votes to the twelve votes which the Presiding Officer recorded to have been polled by the appellant would make his tally twenty votes. The eighth respondent, on the other hand, has polled sixteen votes. 39. We accordingly and direct that the result of the election as declared by the Presiding Officer shall stand quashed and set aside. The appellant, Kuldeep Kumar, is declared to be the validly elected candidate for election as Mayor of the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation. 40. Further, we are of the considered view that a fit and proper case is made out for invoking the jurisdiction of this Court under Section 340 of the Code of Criminal Procedure 1973 in respect of the conduct of Shri Anil Masih, the Presiding Officer. In paragraph 2 of the dated 19 February 2024, we have recorded the statement which was made by the Presiding Officer when he appeared personally before this Court. As Presiding Officer, Shri Anil Masih could not have been unmindful of the consequences of making a statement which, prima facie, appears to be false to his knowledge in the course of judicial proceedings. 41. The Registrar (Judicial) is accordingly directed to issue a notice to show cause to Shri Anil Masih of the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation who was the Presiding Officer at the election which took place on 30 January 2024, as to why steps should not be initiated against him under Section 340 of the Code of Criminal Procedure 1973. The notice shall be made returnable on 15 March 2024. 42. Shri Anil Masih shall have an opportunity to file his response to the notice to be issued in pursuance of the above directions in the meantime. 43. The ballots and the video footage which were unsealed for the perusal of the Court shall be sealed again and returned to the OSD (Litigation) of the High Court of Punjab and Haryana for safekeeping [2024] 2 S.C.R. 711 Kuldeep Kumar v. U.T. Chandigarh and Others before the Registrar General of the High Court. This shall be subject to further s of the competent court. 44. The other elections which are required to be held in terms of the regulations shall now take place in accordance with law, save and except for the election of the Mayor which has been resolved by the final directions which have been issued herein-above. 45. Before concluding, we echo the observations by Justice VR Krishna Iyer, (speaking for himself, Beg, CJ and Bhagwati, J) in Mohinder Singh Gill v. Chief Election Commissioner.,6 albeit in a different context of the powers of the Election Commission of India and the parameters of Article 329(b) of the Constitution, pertaining to elections to the Houses of Parliament and the State Legislatures.