Rukeya Banu & Ors. v. Musstt. Nazira Banu & Ors. reported in AIR 1928 Cal 130, where it was pointed out that a partition, whether perfect or imperfect, of revenue- paying properties must be made by the Revenue authorities. This follows from a conjoint reading of Sections 96 and 154(1)(e) of the Regulation, 1886 respectively. However, the jurisdiction of the civil court to determine the right of the parties to the property in dispute as well as shares to which they are entitled has not been taken away by the Regulation in question, and it is for the civil court to decide whether the property is or is not liable to partition. The same view applies to other clauses of Section 154. The parties to a suit are entitled to obtain a declaration from the civil court that they have got the right to obtain from the revenue authorities a separation and allotment of their shares in the estate according to their proportionate rights. It is the civil court which will decide whether the plaintiff is 1940 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports entitled to seek partition and to what extent. If it is found by the court that revenue paying properties have to be partitioned among the parties, the court may declare the share of each of the parties and leave them to go to the revenue authorities for making the necessary performance. The relevant observations from the said decision are reproduced hereinbelow: “Lastly, the question of jurisdiction under the Assam Land Revenue Regulation may be dealt with. It is quite true that under sec. 154(1)(e) read with sec. 96 of the Act, partition, whether perfect or imperfect, of revenue-paying properties must be made by the revenue authorities. But the jurisdiction of the Civil Court to determine the rights of the parties to the property in dispute as well as the shares to which they are entitled have not been taken away by the regulation in question and the Civil Court must also decide whether the property is liable to partition or not; as in this case, whether there is a valid wakf which prevents the parties from seeking a partition of the property. The Plaintiff as well as the appealing Defendants are entitled to obtain a declaration from the Civil Court that they have got the right to obtain from the revenue authorities a separation and allotment of their shares in the estate according to their proportionate rights. It is further pointed out by the Appellants that all the properties in suit are not revenue-paying properties. These must be partitioned by the Civil Court. It is also alleged that the parties are in possession of separate parcels of lands being only shares in certain revenue-paying estates. These do not fall within the provisions of the Assam Regulation. The moveable properties should also be partitioned and the Court should also give an opportunity to the Plaintiff for finding out whether there are any other properties which are capable of being partitioned.