20. Abetment has been defined under Section 107 IPC and it reads as under: “107. Abetment of a thing.- A person abets the doing of a thing,who- First.- Instigates any person to do that thing; or Secondly.- Engages with one or more other person or persons in any conspiracy for the doing of that thing, if an act or illegal omission takes place in pursuance of that conspiracy, and in to the doing of that thing; or Thirdly.- Intentionally aids, by any act or illegal omission, the doing of that thing.” 21. The very first clause of the aforesaid provision lays down that a person, who abets the doing of a thing, is a person who instigates any person to do that thing. Therefore, ‘instigation’ to do a particular thing is necessary for charging a person with abetment. 22. ‘Instigation’ is to provoke, incite or encourage a person to do an act. 23. This Court has repeatedly observed that abetment involves a mental process of instigating a person or intentionally aiding a person in doing of a particular thing and without the positive act on part of the accused there would be no instigation. It has also been observed that to convict a person for abetment of suicide under Section 306 IPC, there has to be a clear mens rea on the part of the accused to abet such a crime and it requires an active act or a direct act leading to the commission of suicide. 24. In Ramesh Kumar vs. State of Chhattisgarh,2 a three Judges Bench of this Court dealt with a case of suicide by the wife, where the husband in anger uttered-‘You are free to do whatever you wish and go wherever you like’.Thereafter, the wife committed suicide. The Court, after examining the meaning of instigation which is an essential element for abetment of suicide, observed that such 2 [2001] Supp. 4 SCR 247 : (2001) 9 SCC 618 [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1277 Kamaruddin Dastagir Sanadi v. State of Karnataka Through SHO Kakati Police words, uttered out of emotion, do not constitute mens rea and do not amount to intentionally inciting the other party to actually do an act which may result in the commission of self-killing/suicide. 25. Even in cases where the victim commits suicide, which may be as a result of cruelty meted out to her, the Courts have always held that discord and differences in domestic life are quite common in society and that the commission of such an offence largely depends upon the mental state of the victim. Surely, until and unless some guilty intention on the part of the accused is established,it is ordinarily not possible to convict him for an offence under Section 306 IPC. 26. The salient features constituting an offence under Section 306 IPC were elucidated by this Court in M.Mohan vs. State represented by the Deputy Superintendent of Police3 and it was observed as under: “43. This Court in Chitresh Kumar Chopra v. State (Govt. of NCT of Delhi) [(2009) 16 SCC 605: (2010) 3 SCC (Cri) 367] had an occasion to deal with this aspect of abetment.