The need for having a fixed timeline for each step of the examination process was also suggested in this case. Recently, taking note of the judicial vacancies in District Judiciary, this Court had taken suo moto cognizance48 and directed the High Courts and State governments to report on whether the judicial vacancies will be filled in a timely fashion, as prescribed in Malik Mazhar (supra) . A report of the Supreme Court’s Centre for Research and Planning49 notes that despite the in Malik Mazhar (supra) prescribing timelines for recruitment, only 9 out of 25 states completed the recruitment of Civil Judge (Judge Division), within the stipulated time frame. The report notes that the State of Bihar took 945 days to complete the recruitment process computed from the date of advertisement (March 9,2020) to the date of final result (October 10,2022). 47 [2006] 3 SCR 689 : (2006) 9 SCC 507 48 Filling up of Vacancies, In re, 2018 SCC OnLine SC 3648 49 Centre for Research and Planning, Supreme Court of India, State of the Judiciary, A Report on Infrastructure, Budgeting, Human Resources and ICT (November 2023) 592 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 99. As can also be seen in the matters before us, for the Bihar selection process, the advertisement was issued in January, 2015; the final selection was made on 17.5.2016, and because of the need to do a few course corrections, the last candidate was called for the interview only in August, 2016. Similarly, for the selection of Civil Judges in Gujarat, while the advertisement was issued in 2019, the selection process could be completed only in 2021. 100. To avoid the meandering process noticed in the recruitment in the State of Bihar and to ensure more clarity and certainty with the process, we deem it necessary to declare that processes such as moderation should be preferably set out in the Rules to ensure transparency and avoid dilemmas in the selection process. The moderation of marks for bonafide reasons should be permitted when the authority needs to do so, to address the issue of non-availability of adequate number of candidates for consideration in the interview segment. As a confidence building measure, the designation of those in the interview panel, could also be provided for appropriately, in the Rules. It would be apposite at this stage to note a few of the recommendations flagged in the December,2018 Report of Vidhi Centre for Legal Policy titled “Discretion & Delay- Challenges of Becoming a District & Civil Judge”50 which examined the judicial Service Rules of 29 States. The absence of a designated authority that can be approached by the candidates is flagged in the said report. As this appears to be a valid concern, the concerned High Court should notify a designated authority for a given recruitment process with clearly defined roles, functions and responsibilities. The candidates can approach such a designated authority to seek clarification in case of any doubt and this would assuage the anxiety of the candidates to a considerable extent.