The test that has to be applied is one which is more than prima facie case as exercised at the time of framing of charge, but short of satisfaction to an extent that the evidence, if goes unrebutted, would lead to conviction. In the absence of such satisfaction, the court should refrain from exercising power Under Section 319 Code of Criminal Procedure.” 8. The aforesaid position was reiterated by this Court in Sagar v. State of Uttar Pradesh & Anr., (2022) 6 SCC 389 wherein it was opined that: “9. The Constitution Bench has given a caution that power Under Section 319 of the Code is a discretionary and extraordinary power which should be exercised sparingly and only in those cases where the circumstances of the case so warrant and the crucial test as notice above has to be applied is one which is more that prima facie case as exercised at the time of framing of charge, but short of satisfaction to an extent that the evidence, if goes unrebutted, would lead to conviction….” 9. In the present case, the High Court overturned the Trial Court ; and accordingly impleaded the Appellants’ as accused person(s) in the Underlying Proceedings on the satisfaction of a prima-facie finding that the materials on record i.e., (i) vague allegations emanating from the underlying complaint; (ii) the Complainant’s statement under Section 161 of the CrPC; and (iii) the Complainant’s examination- in-chief, are sufficient to proceed against the Appellant(s). 10. In our considered view, the approach adopted by the High Court was not in consonance with this Court’s opinion in Hardeep Singh (Supra). The High Court failed to appreciate that the discretionary powers under Section 319 of the CrPC ought to have been used sparingly where circumstances of the case so warrant. In the present 692 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports case, the Trial Court was well reasoned and did not suffer from any perversity. Moreover, the materials on record could not be said to have satisfied the threshold envisaged under Hardeep Singh (Supra) i.e., more than a prima facie case, as exercised at the time of framing of charge but short of evidence that if left unrebutted would lead to conviction. 11. Consequently, this appeal stands allowed and the Impugned is set aside. Pending application(s), if any, stand disposed of. Headnotes prepared by: Nidhi Jain Result of the case: Appeal allowed.