1407 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. e. Whether the caste or class in question is debarred from using public conveniences such as, roads, ferries, wells, or schools; f. Whether the caste or class in question is debarred from the use of Hindu temples; g. Whether in ordinary social intercourse, a well-educated member of a caste or class in question will be treated as an equal by high caste men of the same educational qualifications; h. Whether the caste or class in question is merely depressed on account of its own ignorance, illiteracy or poverty and but for that would be subject to no social disability; and i. Whether it is depressed on account of the occupation followed and whether but for that occupation it would be subject to no social disability. 131. Though the test that was proposed to be used was that of untouchability, the criteria above and in particular, criteria (f), (g) and (h) indicate that other forms of social disability which cannot be strictly confined to untouchability were also considered. The report recognized that there may be a variance in the degree of restrictions based on the degree of untouchability. For example, a few castes may have been denied entry to a temple as compared to castes which were denied entry to the inner sanctuary of the temple.188 132. The Note submitted by Assam casts light upon the heterogeneity amongst the castes which face untouchability. The Note states that untouchability as it existed in Madras, where an untouchable’s touch necessitated immediate purification, did not exist in Assam. Mr Maullan, the Census Superintendent in Assam defined the depressed class (which he termed as “exterior castes”) as castes whose water is not acceptable and in addition are so deficient in education, wealth, influence, or for some reason connected with their traditional occupations which prevents them from acquiring any further social privileges. The Superintendent further noted that there are influential and wealthy castes even among the jal-achals (that is, those whose water was not acceptable). The note also distinguished the untouchability which certain castes faced from other untouchable castes:189 188 Ibid, 472 189 Ibid, 495 1408 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “The exterior castes themselves are, however, guilty of similar treatment to each other and an exterior caste which considers itself to be on a higher social level than another exterior caste adopts exactly the same attitude as the higher castes do towards the exterior castes. A case which recently happened in Sunamganj illustrates this point. The local ferryman there (a patni by caste) was prosecuted for refusing to row a Muchi and that it has always been the practice, if a Muchi wanted to cross the river, for the paddle to be given to him so that he could row himself across.” 133. The Note of the Superintendent of Assam on Mahars further elucidated the point that there was no “uniformity” in the untouchability faced by members of various castes. The Note explained that Mahars were included in the list of depressed class though they were jal-chal in the limited sense in as much as a man of the forward caste “can smoke huka filled with water by a Mahar”.