853 Shaji Poulose v. Institute of Chartered Accountants of India & Others to historical monuments and other places of interest and to explain the background and importance of such places as well as acquaint the tourists with the historical facts relating to the monuments and landmarks of the area after they attained the age of sixty years, was assailed. Clause 17 stated that “when a guide attains the age of 60 years the identity card issued to him or her will not be renewed further”. This was unsuccessfully challenged by way of a writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution before the Allahabad High Court. But, this Court observed that the freedom guaranteed under Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution is valuable and cannot be violated on grounds which are not established to be in public interest or just on the basis that it is permissible to do so. For placing a complete prohibition on any professional activity, there must exist some strong reason for the same with a view to attain some legitimate object and non-imposition of such prohibition might result in jeopardizing or seriously affecting the interest of the people in general. Otherwise, it would not be a reasonable restriction. We do not have any contrary opinion to what has been observed by this Court in the aforesaid but the facts of each case would ultimately decide whether, a complete prohibition, ban or restriction is a reasonable one or not depending upon the public interest it would seek to achieve. In the aforesaid case clause 17 of the instructions was held to be ultra vires Article 19(1)(g) and hence, quashed by this Court. (b) In Minerva Talkies, Rule 41-A of Karnataka Cinemas (Regulations) Rules, 1971 made under Section 19 of the Karnataka Cinemas (Regulation) Act, 1964 limiting the cinema shows to four per day was held to be neither ultra vires the said Act nor violative of Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution. It was observed that no licensee can claim to have an unrestricted right to exhibit cinematograph films for all the twenty-four hours of the day. Such a claim would obviously be against public interest. The right to exhibit cinematograph films is regulated by the provisions of the Act in the interest of the general public. The restriction to limit the number of shows to four in a day placed by Rule 41-A is regulatory in nature which clearly carries out the purposes of the Act. In the context of Article 19(1)(g), it was observed that the law placing restrictions on the citizens’ right 854 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports to do business must satisfy two conditions set out in clause (6) of Article 19: firstly, the restrictions imposed by the law must be reasonable, and secondly, the restrictions must be in the interests of the general public. If these two tests are satisfied, the law placing restriction on the citizens’ right guaranteed under Article 19(1)(g) must be upheld. While considering the validity of Rule 41-A which had limited the number of films to be exhibit in a day to four shows, it was noted that holding of continuous five shows from 10 am in the morning caused great inconvenience to the incoming and outgoing cine-goers and endangered public safety.