These persons have been allotted 12.25, 8.95 and 15 marks in the interview and their overall mark is made over 55, so as to bring them within the zone of consideration. It is, therefore, apparent from a scrutiny of these results that most of the petitioners have received very less marks in the qualifying examination i.e. Higher Secondary Certificate Examination, whereas many persons whose name appear in the wait-list have received 78% and 79% marks in the qualifying examination, but they are allotted very low marks in the interview and experience, in some cases even less than 3 marks is allotted in the oral interview, as a result their selection is adversely effected. This is the reason why the Collector and the Commissioner thought it appropriate to interfere in the matter. 204 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 23- Petitioner No.6 Sumer Singh is son of Shri Swami Singh, a Member of the Selection Committee, and he has been allotted full 15 marks i.e. 100% marks have been allotted by each of the Committee Members. It is found that in this manner benefit in some way or the other is extended to each of the petitioners and this is the reason why the Collector and the Commissioner interfered in the matter. It is further found that one Badri Prasad, son of Bhagwat Prasad has been appointed and he has been given 9 marks for the experience, but in his file no experience certificate is available. It is found that petitioner Gita Rawat is the real sister of Smt. Pushpa Dwivedi and she has been selected after giving her high marks in the oral interview, even though she has only received 55% marks in the qualifying examination i.e. Higher Secondary. It is clear from a perusal of the records that eight close relatives of Smt. Pushpa Dwivedi, President of the Selection Committee, and Shri Swami Singh, a Member of the Selection Committee, have been appointed. The relatives selected are either sons, daughter, sisters, sister-in-law of the Members and after appreciating all these factors, the Collector and the Commissioner found that the selection of these close relatives are vitiated.” 28. Thereafter, the learned Single Judge held that there was no case warranting interference under Article 226 of the Constitution of India and dismissed the writ petition. The learned Single Judge also relied on the of this Court in A.K. Kraipak and Others vs. Union of India and Others, (1969) 2 SCC 262. Appeal to the Division Bench: 29. The matter was carried in appeal to the Division Bench. Before the Division Bench, the arguments on violation of natural justice and the correctness of the procedure adopted by the Selection Committee were canvassed. It was reiterated by the appellants that no case of the Selection Committee members influencing the selection of their relatives has been made out. The Division Bench cites the Single Judge’s reliance on S.K. Sharma (supra) to hold that unless prejudice is caused due to non-grant of hearing, the ought not to be mechanically interfered with.