experts in the field of civil engineering. It is also indicative of the fact that the members were independent and well-qualified to examine and submit a report. We would, therefore, be justified in relying on the findings of the Expert Committee. In fact, the NCDRC’s opinion about the Expert Committee is not about lack of credibility, or lack of expertise, rather its opinion was only that the Committee was not conclusive in its findings. 20. The proof of the pudding is in its eating - we will straight away refer to the relevant portions of the Expert Committee’s report. Referring to the variations introduced on-site without any approval by the design checker, the Committee held as follows: “5.1.2 Since this is a Design Build Contract, the Contractors M/s Hyundai-Gammon (JV) had appointed M/s SYSTRA of France as their Design Consultant. The designs prepared by M/s SYSTRA were proof checked by M/s COWI, the Proof Check Consultant. During the course of presentations and discussions with various agencies, there were some contradictions in the stand taken by M/s SYSTRA and M/s COWI as regards the extent of proof checking of designs by the Proof Check Consultant. In fact, M/s COWI in their submission dated 28th May, 2010 (Annexure L-21) have stated as follows: “The Design Checker verified the Final Design prior to start of construction. The variations introduced on site were introduced by the BOT Contractor. We expect that all variations were subject to verification and approval of the Designer. The Design Checker was not requested to review any design verification following variations on site from the Final Design. […]” (emphasis supplied) 20.1 The Committee noted that each lateral span of the bridge was supposed to be a monolithic structure. A lateral span is the structure between two support pillars. However, the collapsed lateral span was cast in multiple parts, as noted in the following paragraph: “5.3.3 M/s SYSTRA have expressed vide their submission dated 17th April, 2010 (Annexure H-11, page 3) that they have envisaged “one go” 368 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (i.e. monolithic construction) for each lateral span during the development of the design. However, during actual construction the lateral span P3-P4 was cast in seven parts. The lower part of the box girder (U-shaped section comprising bottom slab and webs upto about mid height) was concreted in four different stages with three vertical construction joints. The upper part of the box girder (comprising deck slab and top half of the webs) was later concreted in three stages (with two vertical construction joints). It has been informed by M/s Hyundai-Gammon JV vide their letter HN-1656 dated 1st September, 2009 (Annexure L-18, page 3) that M/s SYSTRA, the designer of the main bridge including lateral spans, were aware of this. In fact, Mr. J. Mirailles of M/s SYSTRA had visited the site in the month of July 2009 and stayed there for a couple of weeks to inspect the ongoing construction. The construction of lateral span P3- P4 in parts was being carried out at that time…” “5.3.5 The query of the Committee regarding position of M/s LBG-COWI in respect of applicability of Clauses of AASHTO relating to “Segmentally Constructed Bridges” to the design of lateral span P3-P4, was discussed with Mr. Nielsen of M/s COWI on 23rd June, 2010.