46. The duty of the court at this stage is not to weigh the evidence meticulously but to arrive at a finding on the basis of broad probabilities. However, while dealing with a special statute like MCOCA having regard to the provisions contained in sub-section (4) of Section 21 of the Act, the court may have to probe into the matter deeper so as to enable it to arrive at a finding that the materials collected against the accused during the investigation may not justify a of conviction. The findings recorded by the court while granting or refusing bail undoubtedly would be tentative in nature, which may not have any bearing on the merit of the case and the trial court would, thus, be free to decide the case on the basis of evidence adduced at the trial, without in any manner being prejudiced thereby” This Court in Vijay Madanlal Choudhary (supra) had agreed with the aforesaid observations. 46. Two more legal aspects need to be addressed. Section 45 of the PML Act does not stipulate the stage when the accused may move an application for bail. A bail application can be submitted at any stage, either before or after the complaint is filed. Whether the charge is framed or evidence is recorded or not recorded, is immaterial. Clearly, the fact that the prosecution complaint has not been filed, the charge has not been framed, or evidence is either not recorded or partly recorded, will not prevent the court from examining the application for bail within the parameters of Section 45 of the PML Act. As the [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2401 Arvind Kejriwal v. Directorate of Enforcement issue would relate to grant or denial of bail, the parameters or the stipulation in State of Orissa v. Debendra Nath Padhi,42 which states that evidence or material not relied by the prosecution cannot be examined at the stage of charge, will not apply. The reason is simple and straightforward. Right to bail under Section 45 of the PML Act is not dependant on the stage of the proceedings. The power of the court under Section 45 is unrestricted with reference to the stage of the proceedings. All material and evidence that can be led in the trial and admissible, whether relied on by the prosecution or not, and can be examined.43 On the question of burden of proof, Section 24 of the PML Act can be relied on by the prosecution. However, at the same time, the observations of this Court in Vijay Madanlal Choudhary (supra) with reference to clauses (a) and (b) of Section 24, as well as the burden of proof placed on the prosecution to the extent indicated in paragraph 57 refer to at least three foundational facts. These foundational facts are – criminal activity relating to the scheduled offence has been committed; property in question has been derived or obtained directly or indirectly by any person as a result of that criminal activity; and the person concerned is directly or indirectly involved in any process or activity connected with the said property being proceeds of crime, have to be established.