12. On the other hand, Mr. Rahul Chitnis, Ld. Counsel appearing on behalf of the Respondent has vehemently opposed the aforesaid submission(s). The main thrust of the arguments of Mr. Chitnis is two-fold i.e., (i) the Appellant cannot be allowed to change the category of her candidature in light of Clause 1.2.5.6 and 1.2.5.7 of the General Instructions to Candidates published on the Respondent Commission’s website (the “Instructions”)1; and (ii) the Appellant has failed to mark ‘yes’ against the specific question pertaining to a prospective candidates’ status as a person belonging to the NCL. Accordingly, it was submitted that the Appellant’s case is differently 1 Reliance in this regard was placed on State of T.N. v. G. Hemalathaa, (2020) 19 SCC 430. 1228 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports placed from the other 7 (seven) – 8 (eight) persons whom whilst having applied without a valid NCL Certificate, marked ‘yes’ against the specific question pertaining to their status as a person belonging to the NCL, and accordingly were granted the benefit under the Corrigendum. 13. Upon a perusal of Paragraph 5.10 read with Paragraph 5.14 of the Impugned Advertisement, it is clear that any application under the ‘Reserved Female Category’ was to be supported by an NCL Certificate that was valid as on the last date of submission of the application form i.e., 01.06.2022. Subsequently, vide the issuance of the Corrigendum, the aforenoted position changed; and candidates were now eligible to furnish an NCL Certificate pertaining to the current financial year. 14. Additionally, Clause 1.2.5.6 and 1.2.5.7 of the Instructions although prohibits any modification and / or change in the application submitted pursuant to the Impugned Advertisement, could not have been interpreted in such a manner so as to nullify the effect of the Corrigendum. 15. In this regard, the reliance placed on G. Hemalathaa, (Supra) is misdirected as therein a rule issued by the Tamil Nadu Public Service Commission was admittedly contravened; and thereafter relaxed by the High Court on humanitarian grounds erroneously. Herein, it is the on account of the Corrigendum that certain relaxations have been awarded to all person(s) however, on account of an overly restrictive interpretation of (i) the Corrigendum; and (ii) the Instructions, the benefit(s) under the Corrigendum are being selectively restricted by the Respondent. 16. Admittedly, the Appellant i.e., a candidate who was scrupulously following the terms and conditions of the Impugned Advertisement was constrained to apply under the ‘Open General Category’ only on account of certain logistical limitations preventing her from obtaining a valid NCL Certificate. Consequently, in the absence of the requisite documents evidencing status as a person belonging to the NCL under the Impugned Advertisement read with the Circular i.e., a valid NCL Certificate as on the date of submission of the application form, the Appellant did not mark ‘yes’ against the specific question pertaining to her status as a person belonging to the NCL. [2024] 1 S.C.R. 1229 Priyanka Prakash Kulkarni v. Maharashtra Public Service Commission 17. The aforenoted conduct of the Appellant is bona-fide.