The appellant therein approached the Delhi High Court for setting aside the said interim award, however the High Court held that the award was not governed by the Act, 1940 and could only be set-aside at London being the designated seat of arbitration. Aggrieved by it, the appellant therein approached this Court by way of an appeal. 44. This Court in NTPC (supra) held that the law governing the contract will be the proper law governing the arbitration agreement and by it the place of arbitration itself. Where the parties have expressly chosen the proper law of the contract, the courts of that system of law will have jurisdiction. Where however, the parties have not expressly chosen the substantive law governing the contract, there the intention has to be discovered by applying the ‘Closest Connection Test’ to determine which place or system of law has its closest and most real connection with the transaction or dispute. It further, cautioned that mere selection of place of arbitration will not be sufficient to draw an inference as to the intention of parties as regards the seat of arbitration, unless there is a significant link with such place. The aforesaid decision may be better understood in three-parts: - (i) First, it observed that the proper law of the arbitration agreement is normally the same as the proper law of the contract or the substantive law governing the contract. Where the proper law of the contract is expressly chosen by the parties then such law must, in the absence of an unmistakable intention to the [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1199 M/s Arif Azim Co. Ltd. v. M/s Micromax Informatics Fze contrary, govern the arbitration agreement which, though collateral or ancillary to the main contract, is nevertheless a part of such contract. In other words, if the proper law of the contract is expressly chosen and the arbitration agreement forms part and parcel of such contract, then the substantive law of such contract will govern the arbitration agreement, and by its extension the place of arbitration. The relevant observations read as under: - “24. The validity, effect and interpretation of the arbitration agreement are governed by its proper law. Such law will decide whether the arbitration clause is wide enough to cover the dispute between the parties. Such law will also ordinarily decide whether the arbitration clause binds the parties even when one of them alleges that the contract is void, or voidable or illegal or that such contract has been discharged by breach or frustration. (See Heyman v. Darwins Ltd.) The proper law of arbitration will also decide whether the arbitration clause would equally apply to a different contract between the same parties or between one of those parties and a third party. 25. The parties have the freedom to choose the law governing an international commercial arbitration agreement. They may choose the substantive law governing the arbitration agreement as well as the procedural law governing the conduct of the arbitration. Such choice is exercised either expressly or by implication.