As far as defendant No.3(a) is concerned, as noticed above, he, being in possession of part of the property on the ground floor, had claimed that he had let out that to five tenants @ ₹5,800/- per month. When the receiver was appointed, defendant No.3(a) wanted to deposit with him the rent collected from tenants. The receiver refused to accept the rent. An application filed by the defendant No.3(a)-S.C. Bhalla before the Trial Court for a direction to the receiver to receive a cheque dated 25.08.2011 for ₹87,000/- was disposed of with the observation that the receiver had rightly refused to receive the alleged rent as the alleged tenancies created by S.C. Bhalla were found to be prima facie not genuine. He shall be bound to render the accounts at the time of partition as observed by the High Court in its dated 08.08.2011. The reference can be made to the dated 27.02.2012 passed by the Trial Court while disposing of the applications filed by the receiver and the defendant No.3(a). 21. Since it is the admitted case of the defendant No.3(a) himself that he had rented out a portion of the property and collected rent therefrom, there was no good reason for the High Court to have absolved him from rendition of accounts. However, this is with a rider as the plea sought to be raised by the defendant No.3(a) regarding rent notes produced by him were prima facie found to be sham transactions, as the market rate of the rent of the portion in control of the defendant No.3(a) was much more at that time. Even plaintiff offered ₹1,50,000/- per month. Hence, Trial Court will have to hold an inquiry on this aspect and fix appropriate rent to which the defendant No.3(a) would be liable to contribute to the common kitty for appropriation amongst all the co-sharers. 21.1. As far as the argument raised by the learned counsel for the defendant No.3(a)-S.C. Bhalla regarding application filed in the High Court offering to hand over possession of the property in his possession is concerned, as annexed in the present paper book at page No.343, the application was traced out from the record and the same bears No.CM-12168-C-2017 in RSA-2761-2016. It is evident from the passed by the High Court dated 30.01.2018 that the aforesaid application was directed to be heard with the main case. Meaning thereby that the defendant No.3(a) may not be serious about the prayer [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1431 Rajinder Kaur (Deceased) Through Legal Heir Usha v. Gurbhajan Kaur (Deceased) Through Lrs Upinder Kaur and Others made in the application. It is further evident from the fact that at the time of the final argument of the appeal again the prayer made in the application was not pressed as there is no discussion on the same and the issue was not raised by defendant No.3(a) thereafter. 21.2. The High Court misdirected itself in recording the finding that the defendant No.3(a)-S.C. Bhalla, being in self-occupation of the part of the property, being a co-sharer, will not be liable to render any accounts to arrive at such a conclusion.