Material on record must be analysed as a “whole”; no piecemeal analysis “27. … the totality of the material gathered by the investigating agency and presented along with the report and including the case diary, is required to be reckoned and not by analysing individual pieces of evidence or circumstance.” 32.7. Contents of documents to be presumed as true : “27. … The Court must look at the contents of the document and take such document into account as it is.” 32.8. Admissibility of documents relied upon by prosecution cannot be questioned : The materials/evidence collected by the investigation agency in support of the accusation against the accused in the first information report must prevail until contradicted and overcome or disproved by other evidence…. In any case, the question of discarding the document at this stage, on the ground of being inadmissible in evidence, is not permissible.” (emphasis added) [2024] 8 S.C.R. 645 Jalaluddin Khan v. Union of India 14. There is one more decision of this Court in the case of Thwaha Fasal v. Union of India,4 which again deals with the scope of Section 43D(5) of UAPA. After considering the decision in the case of Zahoor Ahmad Shah Watali, 3 in fact, in paragraph 24, the case has been extensively reproduced. Thereafter, in paragraph 26, this Court held thus: “26. Therefore, while deciding a bail petition filed by an accused against whom offences under Chapters IV and VI of the 1967 Act have been alleged, the court has to consider whether there are reasonable grounds for believing that the accusation against the accused is prima facie true. If the court is satisfied after examining the material on record that there are no reasonable grounds for believing that the accusation against the accused is prima facie true, then the accused is entitled to bail. Thus, the scope of inquiry is to decide whether prima facie material is available against the accused of commission of the offences alleged under Chapters IV and VI. The grounds for believing that the accusation against the accused is prima facie true must be reasonable grounds. However, the court while examining the issue of prima facie case as required by sub-section (5) of Section 43-D is not expected to hold a mini trial. The court is not supposed to examine the merits and demerits of the evidence. If a charge-sheet is already filed, the court has to examine the material forming a part of charge-sheet for deciding the issue whether there are reasonable grounds for believing that the accusation against such a person is prima facie true. While doing so, the court has to take the material in the charge-sheet as it is.” (emphasis added) 15. As held in the case of Thwaha Fasal,4 the Court has to examine the material forming part of the charge sheet to decide whether there are reasonable grounds for believing that the accusations against the person applying for bail are prima facie true. While doing so, the court must take the charge sheet as it is.