Under his guidance, Rukhmabai grew fond of studying and took plenty of advantage of the rich collection of books he had accumulated. As 43 The Joshi Committee Report, 9. 44 Ibid. 45 ‘IPC’ 46 Ss. 375, 376, IPC 1860 (initial version). 47 Tahir Mahmood (1980). Marriage Age in India and Abroad – A Comparative Aspect. Journal of Indian Law Institute 22, 39. 48 Infant Marriage and Enforced Widowhood in India, Being a Collection of Opinions For and Against, Recorded by Mr. Behramji M. Malabari from Representative Hindu Gentlemen and Official and Other Authorities, Bombay (1887); Charles H. Heimsath, Indian Nationalism and Hindu Social Reform, Princeton University Press (1964), 151. 49 Charles H. Heimsath, Indian Nationalism and Hindu Social Reform, Princeton University Press (1964), 151; Geraldine Forbes, Women and Modernity: The Issue of Child Marriage in India, Women’s Studies International Quarterly, 1979, Vol. 2, 407-419. 1540 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Rukhmabai grew into an intelligent and forward-thinking woman, Dadaji Bhikaji slipped into indolence. This led Rukhmabai to refuse to live with Dadaji.50 In 1884, Dadaji instituted a suit for restitution of conjugal rights. At the time, a decree for restitution of conjugal rights was enforceable and its violation was punishable with imprisonment. Rukhmabai opposed the petition on the grounds of social, economic and personal incompatibility with Dadaji.51 She also asserted that she had not ‘arrived at years of discretion’ at the time of her marriage and therefore she could not be bound by it.52 Justice Pinhey of the Bombay High Court dismissed the petition and held that Rukhmabai was married before she could consent to such a marriage and cannot therefore be compelled to live with her husband eleven years later without having cohabited in all this time. He observed that: “It is a misnomer to call this a suit for the restitution of conjugal rights. When a married couple, after cohabitation separate and live apart, either of them can bring a suit against the other for the restitution of conjugal rights according to the practice in England, and according to the later practice of the Courts in India. But the present suit is not of that character. The parties to the present suit went through the religious ceremony of marriage eleven years ago when the defendant was a child of eleven years of age. They have never cohabited. And now that the defendant is a woman of twenty-two, the plaintiff asks the Court to compel her to go to his house, that he may complete his contract with her by consummating the marriage, The defendant, being now of full age, objects to going to live with the plaintiff, objects to allowing him to consummate the marriage, objects to ratifying and completing the contract entered into on her behalf by her guardians while she was yet of tender age. It seems to me that it would be a barbarous, a cruel, a revolting thing to do to compel a young lady under those circumstances to 50 Sudhir Chandra.