13.7. P.W.7- Dr. R.K. Verma, Physician deposed that he conducted post mortem on the body of the deceased Abdul Hameed, aged 70 years, on 31.10.1997 at 2:30 p.m. and prepared autopsy report, with the following ante mortem injuries:- (i) Firearm wound of entry 4cm x 2cm muscle deep on medial side of right upper arm 9 cm below the axilla. Blackening and tattooing present around the wound. Margins lacerated and inverted. Two pellets were recovered from the wound. (ii) Firearm wound of entry 3 cm x 2 cm chest cavity deep on lateral side of right chest 11cm below the axilla in mid axillary line. Tattooing and blackening present around the wound in an area of l cm. Margins lacerated and inverted. 5th and 5th ribs are fractured. He further stated in his evidence that the cause of death was due to shock and hemorrhage as a result of firearm ante mortem injuries and the death of the deceased could have been caused within 24 hours [2024] 10 S.C.R. 779 Sandeep v. State of Uttarakhand prior to the time of conducting postmortem; and that both wounds of entry could be caused by one bullet. 13.8. P.W.8 Constable Ramdhan Singh deposed that based on the report of the complainant, he prepared Chik report and entered the case in the G.D. 13.9. P.W.9 Constable Balraj Singh was examined to prove the investigation conducted by the Sub Inspector of Police Satish Verma, who did not come forward to let in evidence. In view of non-examination of the said Officer, the Sessions Court doubted about the sanction accorded by the District Magistrate and accordingly, acquitted the appellant of the charge under section 25/27 of the Arms Act. 14. Upon scrutiny of the depositions of the material witnesses as well as the exhibits produced by the prosecution, predominantly, it is evident that on 30.10.1997 at 9.45 p.m., the deceased died due to the injuries sustained by firing of bullet. P.W.1 and P.W.2 clearly demonstrated in their deposition that the accused were having weapons and on exhortation by other accused, the appellant shot the deceased. The source of light in the scene of crime was explained by P.W.2 in his evidence. The evidence of P.W.3 proved that the material objects were recovered from the scene of crime. The fact that there was a torch and a lantern is recorded in Exts.A2 and A11. The statement of P.W.1 and P.W.2 corroborates with the materials recovered from the scene of occurrence. It is clearly stated by P.W.4 in his evidence that a country made pistol 12 bore and one empty cartridge were recovered on identification by the appellant. It is to be seen that even in the FIR, it was mentioned that the deceased victim was shot. There is no delay in lodging the complaint, registering the FIR and filing the charge sheet. 15. Though the learned counsel for the appellant pointed out certain deficiencies / inconsistencies / contradictions in the evidence let in by the prosecution, they being minor in nature, cannot be considered as remissness in the investigation enabling the appellant’s acquittal, particularly, when the appellant was present with a gun in the scene of occurrence, when the gun and empty cartridge were recovered based on the information given by the appellant, when the firing was witnessed by P.W.1 and P.W.2, and when the fact that the victim died due to wounds inflicted by gunshot, stood proved by 780 [2024] 10 S.C.R.