This however does not mean that the Judge should make a roving enquiry into the pros [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1255 M/s Karnataka Emta Coal Mines Limited and Another v. Central Bureau of Investigation and cons of the matter and weigh the evidence as if he was conducting a trial.” [emphasis added] 20.3. To the same effect is the view expressed in Niranjan Singh KS Punjabi (supra) where this court has observed as follows: “5. Section 227, introduced for the first time in the new Code, confers a special power on the Judge to discharge an accused at the threshold if ‘upon consideration’ of the record and documents he considers ‘that there is not sufficient ground’ for proceeding against the accused. In other words his consideration of the record and document at that stage is for the limited purpose of ascertaining whether or not there exists sufficient grounds for proceeding with the trial against the accused. If he comes to the conclusion that there is sufficient ground to proceed, he will frame a charge under Section 228, if not he will discharge the accused. It must be remembered that this section was introduced in the Code to avoid waste of public time over cases which did not disclose a prima facie case and to save the accused from avoidable harassment and expenditure. 6. The next question is what is the scope and ambit of the ‘consideration’ by the trial court at that stage.………..It is obvious that since he is at the stage of deciding whether or not there exists sufficient grounds for framing the charge, his enquiry must necessarily be limited to deciding if the facts emerging from the record and documents constitute the offence with which the accused is charged. At that stage he may sift the evidence for that limited purpose but he is not required to marshal the evidence with a view to separating the grain from the chaff. All that he is called upon to consider is whether there is sufficient ground to frame the charge and for this limited purpose he must weigh the material on record as well as the documents relied on by the prosecution.” [emphasis Added] 1256 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 20.4. In N. Suresh Rajan (supra), the following view was expressed as to the role of the trial Court at the time of considering an application for discharge. “29. We have bestowed our consideration to the rival submissions and the submissions made by Mr Ranjit Kumar commend us. True it is that at the time of consideration of the applications for discharge, the court cannot act as a mouthpiece of the prosecution or act as a post office and may sift evidence in to find out whether or not the allegations made are groundless so as to pass an of discharge. It is trite that at the stage of consideration of an application for discharge, the court has to proceed with an assumption that the materials brought on record by the prosecution are true and evaluate the said materials and documents with a view to find out whether the facts emerging therefrom taken at their face value disclose the existence of all the ingredients constituting the alleged offence.