c) The constitutional validity of the Bombay Prohibition Act, 1949 was challenged in FN Balsara. One of the arguments raised was that the said Act could be justified under Entry I -List II which relates to public . This was by placing reliance on a tendency in Europe and America with regard to alcoholism as a menace to public . However, the said submission was not pursued further before this Court as there were other express provisions under the pertinent Entry which dealt with “intoxicating liquors”. The short question considered was whether the [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2069 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons Bombay Prohibition Act, 1949 in pith and substance was a law relating to possession and sale, etc. of “intoxicating liquors” or whether it related to import and export of “intoxicating liquors”. Dealing with the validity of the aforesaid Act, this Court noted the word “liquor” ordinarily means “a strong drink as opposed to soft drink” but it must in any event be a beverage which is ordinarily drunk as noted by the Bombay High Court. The High Court further noted that although the State Legislature may prevent the consumption of non-intoxicating beverages and also prevent the use as drinks of alcoholic liquids which are not normally consumed as drinks, it cannot prevent the legitimate use of alcoholic preparations which are not beverages nor the use of medicinal and toilet preparations containing alcohol. This view was challenged before this Court. Noting the several meanings of “liquor” from the Oxford English Dictionary, it was observed that as a general meaning it is a liquid but as a special meaning it means a drink or beverage produced by fermentation or distillation. It was observed that this is the popular and most widely accepted meaning and the basic idea of beverage prominently ran through the main provisions of the various Acts of this country as well as America and England, relating to “intoxicating liquor”. Reference was made to the definition of “intoxicating liquors” in various overseas jurisdiction and also Bombay Abkari Act, 1878 as well as other provincial Acts such as the Punjab Excise Act, 1914; the UP Excise Act, 1910; Madras Abkari Act, 1886, etc. It was observed that the framers of the Government of India Act, 1935 could not have been entirely ignorant of the acceptance in which the word “liquor” covers not only those alcoholic liquids which are generally used for beverage purposes and produce intoxication, but also all liquids containing alcohol. It may be that the latter meaning is not the meaning which is attributed to the word “liquor” in common parlance especially when that word is prefixed by the qualifying word “intoxicating”, but in my opinion having regard to the numerous statutory definitions of that word, such a meaning could not have been intended to be excluded from the scope of the term “intoxicating liquor” as used in Entry 31 – List II. Consequently, on analysing 2070 [2024] 10 S.C.R.