The said letter is reproduced below: - “Rates Circular No. 14 of 2004 GOVERNMENT OF INDIA (BHARAT SARKAR) MINISTRY OF RAILWAYS (RAIL MANTRALAYA) RAILWAY BOARD No. TCR/2043/2000/2 New Delhi, Dt. 07.04.2004 To, The General Managers (Comml.). All Indian Railways, NCR SUB: Rounding off of Chargeable Distance: Rationalization of fares and freight. REF: Board’s letter no. TCR/2043/2002/4 dated 05.02.2003 Reference is invited to Board’s above cited letter wherein Zonal Railways were asked to print their new Local Distance Tables (LD1) and Junction Distance Tables (JDT) effective from April 1, 2003, indicating the actual engineering 1060 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports distances of the various sections upto two decimal places. Board desire confirmation in this regard and that these books have been printed and circulated to other railways also. It was also indicated in the letter under reference that the method of “rounding off” to be adopted for arriving at the ‘chargeable distance’ shall be communicated in due course. The Ministry of Railways have now decided in rationalize the method for arriving at the ‘chargeable distance’ between a specific pair of originating and destination points. The actual engineering distances upto two decimal places of the various sections from originating station to destination station will be added up and the distance so aggregated would be finally rounded off to the next higher kilometre for deriving the chargeable distance. It may be ensured that for deriving the “chargeable distance”, the summation of individual sectional distances be “rounded off” only once at the end. This rationalization is aimed at ensuring uniformity in the method of deriving the distance of charging fares and freight for all customers across the Indian Railways. In to have a uniform date of implementation, all railways shall change over to the rationalized procedure with effect from 01.06.2004. As these instructions have prospective effect and may result in variation in fares and freights when compared with the existing fares and freight, neither would any undercharges be raised by the railways nor would the railways refund charges collected in past cases. Rail users may be intimated of the proposed changes well in advance and staff may also be made well conversant with the changes contemplated. This issues in consultation with C&IS Directorate and with the concurrence of Finance Directorate in the Ministry of Railways. Sd/- (L. Venkataraman) Director, Traffic Comml. (Rates) Railway Board” [2024] 3 S.C.R. 1061 Union of India v. M/s Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. 4. This new methodology was being adopted in to ensure uniformity in deriving the chargeable distance for fares and freight across the Indian Railways, and pursuant to it, the various zonal railways were required to revise their respective distance tables accordingly. 5. The letter as referred to above specifically stipulated that, the change over to the new ‘rationalized procedure’ shall take place w.e.f. 01.06.2004 and further that as the aforementioned change might result in variation in the fares and freights in comparison to the then existing charges / rates, the said change would not entitle either the Railways or the end-users to recover or seek any under-charge or excess charge that was already paid prior to the implementation of the said policy.