1371 U.P. Roadways Retired Officials and Officers Association v. State of U.P. & Anr. Singh, Vijay Pal, Ms. Kajal Kumari, Gajendra Kumar, Ajay Kumar Talesara, Anurag Dubey, Ms. Anu Sawhney, Meenesh Dubey, Ms. Maitri Goal, Ms. Geetanjali Setia, Ms. Manisha Yadav, Bhupendra Kumar Bharadwaj, S. R. Setia, Bhaskar Y. Kulkarni, Kumar Mihir, Nishit Agrawal, Shadab Khan, Ms. Upasna Agrawal, Ms. Kanishka Mittal, Ms. Vanya Agrawal, Ms. Nidhi Singh, Aditya Pushkal Khanna, Dr. Vikas Pahal, Ms. Somya Pendey, Manan Verma, Ankit Shah, Mrs. D. Bharathi Reddy, Naveen Kumar Tripathi, Sanjay Kumar Pandey, Ms. Saroj Tripathi, Dhruv Surana, Arya Hardik, Rohit Amit Sthalekar, Pradeep Misra, Daleep Dhyani, Manoj Kumar Sharma, Suraj Singh, Kamlendra Mishra, Advs. for the appearing parties. / of the Supreme Court Prashant Kumar Mishra, J. Delay condoned in filing SLP(C) Diary No. 10240 of 2020 and leave granted. 2. Abatement is set aside and applications for substitution are allowed. Application(s) for intervention is allowed. 3. By this common a batch of civil appeals arising out of the common passed by the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad in different writ applications and special appeals is disposed of. 4. Civil Appeal No. 894 of 2020 preferred by UP Roadways Retired Officials and Officers Association is taken as the lead case. CIVIL APPEAL NO. 894 OF 2020 5. In this civil appeal challenge is to the common dated 24.11.2016 passed by the High Court in Special Appeal No. 685 of 2014 and other connected matters which in turn arose out of common passed by the learned Single Judge of the High Court on 07.07.2014 in Writ Application No. 63469 of 2012 (Suresh Chandra vs. State of U.P. through Secretary & Ors.) and 51 connected writ applications. The learned Single Judge as well as the Division Bench, under the impugned have dismissed the special appeals and writ applications holding that the appellants/petitioners do not hold the pensionable post and, thus, are not entitled for receiving pension. 1372 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 6. The issue falling for consideration is whether the appellants who are the former employees of Uttar Pradesh Roadways, a temporary department of the State Government, are holding any pensionable post before or after their absorption in the U.P. State Roadways Transport Corporation.1 Government s regarding service under U.P. Roadways and thereafter U.P. State Roadways Transport Corporation 7. In 1947, Uttar Pradesh Roadways2 was created as a temporary department of the State Government for providing public transport facilities. Since the department itself was temporary, the employees working therein were also appointed temporarily and were not members of regular service. 7.1 On 16.09.1960, a Government 3 was issued providing service conditions of the Roadways employees which were different than the service conditions of employees working in different Government departments. 7.2. On 28.10.1960, another GO was issued providing for pension to the permanent employees of the erstwhile Roadways. It was mentioned in this that remaining non-gazetted employees of the Roadways (who are not permanent) would be entitled for benefits under the Employees Provident Fund Scheme.