Then, the Central Government, having regard to the gravity of the offence and other relevant factors, if is of the opinion that the offence is a Scheduled Offence and it is fit to 1774 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports be investigated by the NIA, a direction would be issued to the NIA to investigate the said Scheduled Offence. Irrespective of the contingency under which the NIA is directed to investigate a Scheduled Offence under Section 6, Section 8 would apply. In either case, while carrying out the investigation in respect of the accused alleged to have committed a Scheduled Offence, information may emerge that there are other accused who have committed any other offence which is connected with the Scheduled Offence committed by the accused in respect of whom investigation is being made by the NIA on the basis of Section 6 of the NIA Act. 7.8 Therefore, owing to the connection of any other offence with the Scheduled Offence committed by any other accused in respect of whom investigation is necessary, steps could be taken to investigate the said other accused also. This is because the offence said to have been committed by any other accused has a connection with the Scheduled Offence. One cannot determine the manner in which such information may emanate while carrying out an investigation in respect of the accused who is alleged to have committed a Scheduled Offence and who may have also committed any other offence (non-scheduled offence) which could be along with any other accused in respect of whom no direction may yet have been issued to carry on an investigation by the NIA under Section 6(5) of the NIA Act but exercise of jurisdiction under Section 8 may become necessary. Therefore, during the course of investigation of an accused alleged to have committed a Scheduled Offence, if, it emerges or it is detected that the said accused along with any other accused has committed other offence/s, then investigation with regard to any other offence committed by some other accused along with the accused said to have committed the Scheduled Offence could also be carried out by requesting the Central Government for a direction to investigate the other accused. Such other accused may have committed an offence which has a connection with the Scheduled Offence of the accused who is being investigated and therefore Section 8 provides such a contingency. 7.9 Therefore, the nexus or connection between any other offence and the Scheduled Offence is of critical importance and must be present in to enable the NIA to investigate any other [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1775 Ankush Vipan Kapoor v. National Investigation Agency offence committed by an accused in connection with the Scheduled Offence. The connection between a Scheduled Offence and any other offence being established would enable the NIA to investigate the accused of committing any other offence which is connected with the Scheduled Offence. Once there is such a connection between a Scheduled Offence and a non-scheduled offence then, for all practical purposes the non-scheduled offence would come within the connection of a Scheduled Offence.