Whether the Constitution bench in Dawoodi Bohra (supra) has been correctly construed by Hon’ble the Chief Justice of India in his opinion? a. In to avoid any repetition, we wish to mention here that an elaborate answer to the aforesaid question has been given 1850 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports under ‘Issue I’ from paragraphs 83 to 99 of our judgement. In essence, the reference by the two-judge bench to a larger bench of seven-judges is totally impermissible; such a recourse is directly in the teeth of the dictum of the Constitution bench in Dawoodi Bohra (supra).Such an attempt by a two-judge bench is hit by: (i) the doctrine of predictability; (ii) the doctrine of finality; (iii) the principle of judicial propriety; and (iv) the doctrine of stare decisis. b. Further, there is no substantial difference between ‘doubting’ a larger bench or ‘disagreeing’ with such a judgement. ‘Doubt’ and ‘disagreement’ both originate from a tentative opinion which is in conflict with the reasons already assigned by the larger bench. There cannot be disagreement without doubting the correctness and there cannot be a doubt unless you disagree with the reasons. c. Most importantly, entertaining a reference by a two-judge bench doubting a larger bench would dilute the authority and position of the Chief Justice of India as enjoyed upon Article 145 read with VII Rule 2 of the Supreme Court Rules, 1966, as was then applicable. 189.4. What is the true import of Entry 63 of List I of the Constitution? a. The Seventh Schedule derives its relevance from Article 246 of the Constitution. This provision is included in Chapter I of Part XI of the Constitution, which deals with the relationship between the Union and the State and defines their legislative relations. b. It may be seen that Parliament has exclusive power to make laws with respect to any of the matters enumerated in List I in the Seventh schedule, known as the Union List. In this vein, Entry 63 of List I reads as follows: “63. The institutions known at the commencement of this Constitution as the Benares Hindu University, the Aligarh Muslim University and the Delhi University; the University established in pursuance of article 371E; any other institution declared by Parliament by law to be an institution of national importance.” [Emphasis supplied] [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1851 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. c. Entry 63 has two significant components which we can broadly label as procedural and substantive. The former, i.e., the procedural feature, flows from Article 246 and reiterates that the Parliament is the sole Competent Authority for legislating to declare any other institution to be an institution of National Importance d. The first component of Entry 63 is a substantive part, which is a constitutional declaration of BHU and AMU, to be institutions of National Importance. The opening part of Entry 63 manifestly indicates that the Constituent Assembly was determined to confer such an elevated status on both, BHU and AMU. e. The second component of Entry 63 on the other hand, permits the Parliament to declare any other institution also to be an institution of national importance.