Thus, the Joint. Secy. opined that the LoI in MRCHS’ favour should be cancelled. The Chief Minister remarked “please resubmit the file with the latest position”. 4. Thereafter, the Joint Secy. again recommended cancellation of the LoI vide Office Note dated 21.09.2004. It was noted that even the new Chief Promoter of MRCHS, Mr. Dilip D. Gijare, has submitted his resignation and of the original 11 members, who were shown as members of MRCHS at time of issuance of LoI, none are eligible for membership. Thus, it was observed that the main object of sanctioning the plot in favour of MRCHS is not getting satisfied. This is what was said: “that out of 11 members alongwith Letter of Intent provided to [MRCHS], 5 members have given resignations and details two members have not been received. Remaining 4 members are not eligible because of income limit and out of 9 members who have been admitted fresh, 4 members from Tata Memorial Centre and 1 Private Surgeon and thus total 5 members are also not eligible as per income limit… Similarly resignation of Dr. Dilip D. Gihare, newly appointed Chief Promoter of the society has been submitted. It is being observed from the details submitted in this case by the Collector that total 5 members out of total 11 members of the list enclosed with [LoI] of Intent dated 16/1/2003 provided to [MRCHS] have given resignation and 2 members have not submitted their details… In this manner out of total 11 members whose names have been mentioned in list alongwith Letter of Intent of the Government dated 16/1/2003 provided to the society, not a single member can be considered to be eligible in the present circumstances for membership. Similarly earlier 9 members who have been recommended by the society and 9 members who have been proposed in connection with T.D.R. and names of such total 19 members have not been included in the list of Letter of Intent of Government dated 736 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 16/1/2003 provided to the society. From these details main object of the government of sanctioning plot of land under the subject to the society is not getting satisfied. Taking this fact into consideration as most of the members of Tata Memorial Centre is not being eligible for Membership, letter of Intent of the Government dated 16/1/2003 issued… for the allotment to [MRCHS] should be cancelled. However, submitted for s.” The Chief Minister again intervened and directed scrutiny of the second proposal by MRCHS. The composition of the proposed MRCHS has changed thrice already, yet they are afforded another opportunity by the Chief Minister. This time, the Principal Secy. (Revenue) vide Office Note dated 17.05.2005 recommends cancellation of the LoI. He notes that after scrutiny of all 29 members, i.e., original and additional members, only 8 of them can be considered prima facie eligible while the condition of admitting 20% of MRCHS’ members from the backward classes has still not been complied with. The reason that 8 members were only prima facie eligible is because they were in the private service (not working with Tata Memorial Centre) and could be considered only after submission of their income certificate, as provided by the Competent Authority.