Thus, Section 52 of the Transfer of Property Act would apply to the third-party purchaser once the sale was executed after the review petition was instituted before this Court. Any transfer that is made during the pendency is subject to the final result of the litigation.13 H. Relief 50. The High Court relied on Section 12 of the Specific Relief Act to decree specific performance only to the extent of the consideration paid by the petitioner. The directions of the High Court are extracted below: “89. […], this court is of the considered opinion that by exercising power under Section 12, in to meet the ends of justice, suit can be decreed for specific performance only to the extent of 90% of the amount paid by the plaintiff to the defendants 6 & 8 towards sale consideration. 90. In the result, Appeal Suit is allowed in part directing the defendants 6 & 8 to register the suit schedule property in favour of the plaintiff proportionate to the extent of amount paid by the plaintiff i.e., 90% of the total sale consideration[…]. 13 See GT Girish v. Y Subba Raju [2022] 8 SCR 991 [2024] 11 S.C.R. 699 M/s Siddamsetty Infra Projects Pvt. Ltd. v. Katta Sujatha Reddy & Ors. 91. It is needless to state that the Suit Schedule Land is required to be divided by metes and bounds in the execution proceedings by the Execution Court, as indicating above i.e., 90% and 10% with the assistance of an advocate commissioner and the 90% of the part of the Suit Schedule Land, so determined, shall be registered in favour of the Appellant in accordance with the law.” 51. On appeal, this Court held that it was not a fit case to exercise discretion to grant relief in terms of Section 12 because the purchaser breached an essential condition of the agreements to sell and the suit was filed beyond limitation: “77. […] In this case, the petitioner breached the essential condition of the contract, which altogether disentitles him to claim specific performance. There is no doubt that the claim of purchaser is hit by delay and laches on their part as they did not take appropriate measures within the stipulated time and filing of the suit was delayed by almost five years […] 78. Therefore, we do not think that it is an appropriate case for granting relief to the purchaser in terms of Section 12 of the Specific Relief Act 1963 as the claim of the purchaser is barred by delay, laches and limitation.” 52. Having concluded that the errors apparent on the face of the record identified above go to the root of the reasoning on both the issues of limitation and specific performance, we recall the of this Court dated 25 August 2022. The of the High Court dated 23 April 2021 is restored. 53. The review petitions are allowed in the above terms. 54. Pending application(s), if any, is disposed of. Result of the case: Review Petitions allowed.