Further, the Tribunal also adverted to the legal presumption against the driver of the Gas Tanker of having parked his vehicle in a negligent manner in the middle of the road. The Site Plan (Ext. P-45) reinforces the version of PW7 that the Truck (Gas Tanker) was parked in the middle of the road but the High Court opined to the contrary without assigning any reason whatsoever. In our view, the Site Plan (Ext. P-45) filed along with the chargesheet does not support the finding recorded by the High Court that the Gas Tanker was not parked in the middle of the road. Notably, 9 [2018] 1 SCR 626 : (2018) 3 SCC 365 440 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the High Court has also not doubted the claimant’s plea that the Gas Tanker/offending vehicle was parked without any indicator or parking lights. The fact that PW7 who was standing on the opposite side of the road at a distance of about 70 feet, could see the Gas Tanker parked on the other side of the road does not discredit his version that the Maruti Car coming from the opposite side could not spot the Gas Tanker due to flashlights of the oncoming traffic from the front side. It is not in dispute that the road is a busy road. In the cross-examination, neither has any attempt been made to discredit the version of PW7 nor has any suggestion been made that no vehicle with flashlights on was coming from the opposite direction of the parked Gas Tanker at the relevant time. 9. Suffice it to observe that the approach of the High Court in reversing the well-considered finding recorded by the Tribunal on the material fact, which was supported by the evidence on record, cannot be countenanced. 10. Accordingly, we have no hesitation in setting aside the said finding of the High Court. As a result, the appellants would be entitled to the enhanced compensation as determined by the High Court in its entirety without any deduction towards contributory negligence. In other words, we restore the finding of the Tribunal rendered on issue No.1 against the respondents and hold that respondent no.1 negligently parked the Gas Tanker/offending vehicle in the middle of the road without any indicator or parking lights.” 39. We are of the view that the aforesaid decision applies to the case at hand on all fours and thus, the appellant-claimants cannot be denied their rightful compensation on the ground that the driver of the car, namely Saiprasad Karande (deceased), was jointly responsible for the accident with the person in control of the offending truck and hence, their claims should be reduced on the principle of contributory negligence. 40. On a holistic analysis of the material available on record, it is established beyond the pale of doubt that the offending truck was parked in the middle of the road without any parking lights being [2024] 9 S.C.R. 441 Sushma v. Nitin Ganapati Rangole & Ors.