According to them, the courts below had correctly appreciated the evidence on record. They also submitted that the appellant and other police officials had harassed and tortured not only Devraj while he was in custody but had also threatened and tortured the family members both mentally and physically in to extract huge amount of money. Our attention was also drawn to the statements recorded under Section 161 Cr.P.C. during investigation as also before the Trial Court of the relevant witnesses. It was lastly prayed that the appeal be dismissed and the appellant and other police officials must face the trial for the crime committed by them. 8. Having considered the submissions and having perused the material on record, it is quite apparent that the informant Puneet Miglani, in his statement under section 161 Cr.P.C. recorded on 22.09.2013, had narrated complete facts with respect to the conduct of the police officials immediately after the surrender of his father on 30.08.2013 in the case registered against him for mis-appropriation. The consistent case right from that stage till the statement was recorded during the trial on a number of occasions, the informant has supported the statement under section 161 Cr.P.C. Even Devraj and Eshaa Miglani in their statements recorded during investigation on 15.10.2013 and 22.10.2013 respectively, have given the same details as narrated by the informant Puneet Miglani on 22.09.2013. Further their statements during trial also supports and is in line with their previous statement. All these witnesses have equivocally narrated the incidents that took place at different places regarding threats, demand of huge sum of money, torture of Devraj etc. 9. The complaint dated 06.09.2013, on the basis of which the FIR No.11/2013 was registered, related to the incident which happened [2024] 1 S.C.R. 325 Gurdev Singh Bhalla v. State of Punjab & Ors at the Bank where Ritu, niece of Devraj,was working Head Constable Kikkar Singh had gone there to collect Rs.50,000/- against a slip issued by Devraj. Since everything happened on the same day it is quite possible that the entire story from the time of surrender of Devraj could not have been mentioned but soon after that at the first instance the conduct of the appellant and the other police officials trying to extract money from Devraj and his family members was mentioned in detail by all the witnesses. According to them, the amount was being demanded for the following benefits to be extended: (i) firstly, not to physically torture Devraj; (ii) not to ask for further police remand; (iii) to help him get bail; and (iv) to give him good treatment during his custody. The statement of Ms.Eshaa Miglani as also Devraj recorded in the trial as PW-18 and PW-13 respectively have also supported the prosecution case regarding the demand of huge amount of money for extending all the benefits, as noted above. 10. The argument mainly advanced by the counsel for the appellant that the FIR mentioned only about Rs.50,000/- whereas subsequent story of Rs.24 lakhs had been set up only in to brow-beat the appellant being annoyed with the appellant because he gave evidence against his father, may be difficult to accept.