(b) Discretion of the court in applying guesswork to the facts of a given case is not unfettered but has to be reasonable and should have a connection to the data on record produced by the parties by way of evidence. Further, this entire exercise has to be within the limitations specified under Sections 23 and 24 of the Act and cannot be made in detriment thereto.” 35. Broadly, such relevant factors can be divided into three categories: 9 [2011] 8 SCR 520 : (2011) 6 SCC 47, para 65 460 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports i. Characteristics of the land: The valuation of land is undeniably influenced by its inherent characteristics. A parcel of land endowed with advantageous features that enhance its accessibility and usability tends to command higher market price and thus, a greater valuation in comparison to lands lacking such attributes. Key factors contributing to such features include connectivity via roads and other means of transportation, the size and shape of the land, availability of essential utilities such as electricity and water, the evenness or levelling of the land’s surface, width of frontage, and nature and status of the surrounding area etc. ; ii. Future potentiality of the land: In addition to its characteristics, the valuation of land is also influenced by its potentiality. Lands with the potential to be used for commercial or residential purposes; that are located in or near a developed area; or which are proximate to tourist destinations, are perceived to hold greater value in the future. Consequently, landowners may anticipate higher future prices and accordingly demand higher sale prices compared to lands lacking these attributes. Accordingly, these features also lead to an increase in valuation; and iii. Factors denoting market sentiment: Market sentiments are powerful drivers of land valuation. Even if a particular piece of land possesses all desirable features, its valuation can still suffer if the market conditions at the time of publication of the notification under Section 4 of the 1894 Act were unfavourable. Factors such as economic recessions, political instability, speculative investments or real estate crisis can impact the perceived value of the land. Thus, these extraneous economic and political factors must also be considered when assessing land valuation. 36. In the instant case, the evidence led by parties provides several relevant factors, as enumerated above. For instance, while the sale deed produced by the landowners cannot directly be relied upon for determining the price of the land, given its relative proximity, it nonetheless establishes its potentiality in the form of possible use towards residential purposes. 37. Likewise, the lease deeds further underscore the commercial potentiality of land in the adjoining vicinity—as Sector 18 is situated [2024] 7 S.C.R. 461 New Okhla Industrial Development Authority v. Harnand Singh (Deceased) through LRs & Ors. only 3-4 kilometres away from the subject land. Moreover, as in the case of Sector 18, the acquired land is well connected to major roads and has adequate supply of water and electricity. Further, as highlighted by the landowners, the land under acquisition lies near prominent amenities and landmarks such as the Amity Public School, a large Golf Course, and a prominent tourist attraction - the Film City.