Digital Supreme Court Reports passed by the Deputy Collector, Kamrej Prant, District Surat. The Deputy Collector, by such , had confirmed the dated 23rd February, 2015 of the Mamlatdar, Kamrej. The petition came up for consideration on 1st March, 2023 before a learned Judge, having been listed in the cause-list as Item No.17. According to the appellant, he was represented before the learned Judge by his counsel. Hearing having concluded on 1st March, 2023, “he was under the belief that the detailed is reserved in the proceeding. However, even an recording the reserving of s has not been passed or made available on the official website of the Hon’ble High Court till date”. Since the detailed was not pronounced, the appellant’s counsel did not also apply for the certified copy. In the process, more than a year passed by. On 30th April, 2024, the appellant’s counsel received from the IT Cell of the High Court soft copy of a reasoned dated 1st March, 2023 containing the reasons for dismissal of the petition. 10. The impugned is part of the records. At the beginning of the said , “ORAL ” is printed in bold font, i.e., it is supposed to be an which has been dictated in open court. However, the appellant has alleged something rather serious : that the learned Judge had passed the reasoned more than a year after 1st March, 2023 and ante-dated the same to project that the reasoned was passed on 1st March, 2023. 11. Such allegation prompted us to seek, by an dated 12th August, 2024, a report4 from the Registrar General of the High Court as to whether the allegation of the appellant that the reasoned bearing the date 1st March, 2023 was communicated to him for the first time on 30th April, 2024 is correct or not. A report has since been filed by the Registrar General and on perusal thereof, we have found the allegation of the appellant to be substantially correct. It is revealed that the learned Judge dictated the reasoned on 12th April, 2024 to His Lordship’s personal secretary, whereafter such was uploaded on the website of the High Court on 30th April, 2024 as well as communicated to the appellant’s counsel by the IT Cell. 12. Having regard to the nature of controversy raised by the appellant, we also had the occasion to witness (on the virtual platform) the 4 the report, hereafter [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2233 Ratilal Jhaverbhai Parmar and Ors. v. State of Gujarat and Ors. recorded version of the proceedings dated 1st March, 2023 before the learned Judge of the High Court. After briefly hearing counsel for the appellant and his adversary, the learned Judge was heard to say, “I will dismiss” and a few seconds thereafter, pronounced the outcome of the petition as “dismissed”. Counsel representing the appellant before the High Court being present could hear what the learned Judge said while his adversary acknowledged that he was “grateful”. Immediately thereafter, the next item on the board was called.