The decisions cited by the appellants are apt. However, without unnecessarily burdening our with authorities, reference is made to only one decision of this Court which has a factual resemblance with the present case. 29. In M.P. Public Service Commission v. Navnit Kumar Potdar,29 this Court upheld shortlisting of candidates by the relevant Public Service Commission. In this case, for the purpose of shortlisting, a longer period of experience than the minimum prescribed was used as a criterion by it to call candidates for an interview. Relevant passages from such decision are reproduced below: “6. The question which is to be answered is as to whether in the process of short-listing, the Commission has altered or substituted the criteria or the eligibility of a candidate to be considered for being appointed against the post of 29 (1994) 6 SCC 293 [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1823 Allahabad University Etc. v. Geetanjali Tiwari (Pandey) & Ors. Etc. Etc. Presiding Officer, Labour Court. It may be mentioned at the outset that whenever applications are invited for recruitment to the different posts, certain basic qualifications and criteria are fixed and the applicants must possess those basic qualifications and criteria before their applications can be entertained for consideration. The Selection Board or the Commission has to decide as to what procedure is to be followed for selecting the best candidates from amongst the applicants. In most of the services, screening tests or written tests have been introduced to limit the number of candidates who have to be called for interview. Such screening tests or written tests have been provided in the concerned statutes or prospectus which govern the selection of the candidates. But where the selection is to be made only on basis of interview, the Commission or the Selection Board can adopt any rational procedure to fix the number of candidates who should be called for interview. It has been impressed by the courts from time to time that where selections are to be made only on the basis of interview, then such interviews/viva voce tests must be carried out in a thorough and scientific manner in to arrive at a fair and satisfactory evaluation of the personality of the candidate. **** 8. The sole purpose of holding interview is to search and select the best among the applicants. It is obvious that it would be impossible to carry out a satisfactory viva voce test if large number of candidates are interviewed each day till all the applicants who had been found to be eligible on basis of the criteria and qualifications prescribed are interviewed. If large number of applicants are called for interview in respect of four posts, the interview is then bound to be casual and superficial because of the time constraint. The members of the Commission shall not be in a position to assess properly the candidates who appear before them for interview. It appears that Union Public Service Commission has also fixed a ratio for calling the candidates for interview with reference to number of available vacancies.