At least two of such social workers shall be women. All the CMPOs of the Unit shall be provided special training on dealing with child marriages; 4.3. The Units shall tailor courses and resources with the help of professionals dealing with the mental health concerns of the CMPOs. The Unit shall also provide forums for CMPOs to raise any difficulties or grievances they encounter in discharge of their functions, including but not limited to, any difficulty relating to social ostracization for preventing child marriages; and 4.4. The Unit shall act as a forum of sharing best practices, inviting trained professionals to dispense knowledge and collectivise and redress grievances. B. Judicial Measures 1. Empowering Magistrates to Take Suo Moto Action and Issue Preventive Injunctions 1.1. All Magistrates vested with authority under Section 13 of the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006, are directed to take proactive measures, including issuing suo motu injunctions to prevent the solemnization of child marriages; and 1.2. Magistrates are encouraged to particularly focus on “auspicious days” known for mass weddings, when the 1620 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports occurrence of child marriages is notably high. Upon receiving credible information or even upon suspicion, Magistrates should use their judicial powers to halt such marriages and ensure child protection. 2. Exploration of Special Fast-Track Courts for Child Marriage Cases 2.1. The Union Government, in coordination with State Governments, is directed to assess the feasibility of establishing special fast-track courts exclusively to handle cases under the PCMA. These courts will expedite case proceedings, thereby preventing prolonged delays that often lead to additional harm for the affected children; and 2.2. A status report on the establishment, resource allocation, and potential effectiveness of these fast-track courts shall be submitted to this Court within a year from now onwards. 3. Mandatory Action Against Neglectful Public Servants 3.1. It is directed that strict disciplinary and legal action be taken against any public servant found to be in deliberate neglect of duty concerning child marriage cases within their jurisdiction. As stipulated under Section 199(C) of the Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita (BNS), 2023, public officials who fail to act in child marriage cases, particularly those with knowledge of imminent marriages, shall be subject to stringent punishment. This direction is aimed at reinforcing accountability among public officials and ensuring that child marriage cases receive immediate and appropriate action at all administrative and enforcement levels. C. Community Involvement 1. Annual Action Plans and Community-Centric Capacity Building 1.1. Each State and UTs is directed to develop an Annual Action Plan to prevent child marriages, incorporating Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) that reflect local cultural [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1621 Society for Enlightenment and Voluntary Action & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. and social contexts. This plan should include measurable goals tailored to address community-specific beliefs and practices related to child marriage; and 1.2. States and UTs shall incorporate regular orientation programs, seminars, and workshops in their annual schedules aimed at building the capacity of all stakeholders. These initiatives should target CMPOs, Gram Panchayat or Municipality office holders, government officials, school principals and teachers, representatives of non- governmental organizations, local representatives, and Para Legal Volunteers (PLVs), fostering a collaborative approach to child marriage prevention.