In case of doubt all that the Bench of lesser quorum can do is to invite the attention of the Chief Justice and request for the matter being placed for hearing before a Bench of larger quorum than the Bench whose decision has come up for consideration. It will be open only for a Bench of coequal strength to express an opinion doubting the correctness of the view taken by the earlier Bench of coequal strength, whereupon the matter may be placed for hearing before a Bench consisting of a quorum larger than the one which pronounced the decision laying down the law the correctness of which is doubted. (3) The above rules are subject to two exceptions: (i) the abovesaid rules do not bind the discretion of the Chief Justice in whom vests the power of framing the roster and who can direct any particular matter to be placed for hearing before any particular Bench of any strength; and (ii) in spite of the rules laid down hereinabove, if the matter has already come up for hearing before a Bench of larger quorum and that Bench itself feels that the view of the law taken by a Bench of lesser quorum, which view is in doubt, needs correction or reconsideration then by way of exception (and not as a rule) and for reasons given by it, it may proceed to hear the case and examine the correctness of the previous decision in question dispensing with the need of a specific reference or the of the Chief Justice constituting the Bench and such listing. ***” (emphasis supplied) 73. Although the larger Bench in Shailendra [3-Judge] (supra) appears to have considered in excess of 250 decisions, the above opinions of the Constitution Benches do not seem to have been presented before it. It is, thus, clear as crystal from the majority opinion delivered by Hon’ble Arun Mishra and Hon’ble A.K. Goel, JJ. that recourse was taken to declare Pune Municipal Corporation (supra) per incuriam [2024] 5 S.C.R. 991 Govt. of NCT of Delhi Through Its Secretary, Land and Building Department & Another v. M/s K.L. Rathi Steels Limited and Others without having the benefit of the caution sounded by this Court in Vikramjit Singh (supra) and Central Board of Dawoodi Bohra Community (supra). 74. Having regard to the opinions expressed by Constitution Bench decisions of this Court, there is absolutely no scope for a Bench of three-Hon’ble Judges to declare a previous decision of a Bench of co-equal strength per incuriam. Shailendra [3-Judge] (supra), at the highest, could have doubted Pune Municipal Corporation (supra) and referred it for decision by a yet larger Bench but could not have, by any stretch of reasoning, declared it per incuriam. But, the same logic applies to this Bench too. Respectfully following the binding dictum in Central Board of Dawoodi Bohra Community (supra) and also having regard to our sense of judicial discipline and propriety, we restrain ourselves from declaring Shailendra [3-Judge] (supra) as per incuriam notwithstanding our firm conviction in this behalf.