The notice was delivered to the respondent on 29.11.2022. Hence, the said period of one month from the date of receipt came to an end on 28.12.2022. Thus, it is only from this day that the clock of limitation for filing the present petition would start to tick. The present petition was filed by the petitioner on 19.04.2023, which is well within the time period of 3 years provided by Article 137 of the Limitation Act, 1963. Thus, the present petition under Section 11(6) of the Act, 1996 cannot be said to be barred by limitation. ii. Issue No. 2: Whether the court may refuse to make a reference under Section 11 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 where the claims are ex-facie and hopelessly time-barred? 63. As discussed above, the present petition filed by the petitioner is not barred by limitation. Thus, the next question that falls for our 108 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports consideration is whether the claims sought to be arbitrated by the petitioner are ex-facie barred by limitation, and if so, whether the court may refuse to refer them to arbitration? a. Jurisdiction versus Admissibility 64. There are two categories of issues that may be raised against an application for appointment of arbitrator under Section 11(6) of the Act, 1996. The first category is of the issues pertaining to the power and authority of the arbitrators to hear and decide a case and are referred to as the “jurisdictional issues/objections”. Objections to the competence of arbitrators to adjudicate a dispute, existence/ validity of arbitration agreement, absence of consent of the parties to submit the disputes to arbitration, dispute falling out of the scope of the arbitration agreement are some examples of jurisdictional or maintainability issues. 65. The second category is of those issues which are related to the nature of the claim and include challenges to procedural requirements, viz. a mandatory requirement for pre-reference mediation; claim or a part thereof being barred by limitation, etc. This category is referred to as the “admissibility issues/objections”. 66. This Court in Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (supra), explained the difference between the aforesaid two category of objections and held that the issue of limitation is essentially an admissibility issue and is not a challenge to the jurisdiction of the arbitrator to decide the claim. While placing reliance on decision of the Singapore Court of Appeal in Swissbourgh Diamond Mines (Pty) Ltd. v. Kingdom of Lesotho reported in (2019) 1 SLR 263, this Court explained the “tribunal v. claim” test thus: “43. Applying the “tribunal v. claim” test, a plea of statutory time bar goes towards admissibility as it attacks the claim. It makes no difference whether the applicable statute of limitations is classified as substantive (extinguishing the claim) or procedural (barring the remedy) in the private international law sense. 44. The issue of limitation which concerns the “admissibility” of the claim, must be decided by the Arbitral Tribunal either as a preliminary issue, or at the final stage after evidence is led by the parties.” [2024] 3 S.C.R.