24. We are inclined to accept the modification particularly since the State Governments have been permitted to evolve suitable safeguards, to check any over estimation in case of a purchase from private individuals, in consultation with the High Court to ensure that there is not delay in implementation, we direct that the Committee constituted in terms of the directions issued in a later part of this under the authority of every High Court shall sort out any difficulties which may arise in the implementation of the recommendations of the SNJPC as accepted by the present . 25. We accordingly accept the recommendations of the SNJPC on the adoption of HBA. 2. Children Education Allowance (CEA) 26. The SNJPC has recommended the payment of the allowance with effect from academic year 2019-2020. The recommendation by the SNJPC on the payment of the CEA is in accordance with the recommendations of the Seventh CPC for Central Government employees which is in the following terms : (a) Rs 2,250 per month as CEA and Rs 6,750 per month as hostel subsidy for two children up to Class 12; (b) For children with special needs, the reimbursement would be at double the rate stated in (a); (c) When the DA increases by 50%, the allowances and subsidy shall increase by 25%; and (d) The rights of officers who are already receiving this benefit will not be adversely affected by the recommendation. 27. While arriving at the above rates for the CEA, the SNJPC has considered the fact that the judicial service has a pan India character. 344 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports In making the recommendation, the SNJPC has based the payment of the allowance of the CEA in terms of the OM dated 16 August 2017 of the Union Government in the Department of Personnel and Training. The payment of the allowance as recommended shall accordingly stand approved. 3. City Compensatory Allowance (CCA) 28. While recommending that the CCA be discontinued prospectively on the ground that it is not being paid to High Court or Supreme Court Judges after the Seventh CPC recommendations, the SNJPC has also directed that no recovery shall be effected on the amount already paid on account of the allowance. 29. We approve both the recommendation for discontinuation and the recommendation that no recovery shall be made. 4. Concurrent Charges Allowance 30. The SNJPC has observed that concurrent charge allowance is payable to officers who are required to hold full charge of the duties of equal or higher responsibilities in addition to the duties of their own post. The following recommendations were made by the FNJPC: “a) The charge allowance be paid to the Judicial Officer when he is placed in charge of another Court continuously beyond the period of 10 working days and if he performs appreciable judicial work of that Court; AND b) The charge allowance be paid to such Judicial Officer at 10% of the minimum of the time scale of the additional post held.” 31.