As per Shri Naidu, this was a clear attempt by the complainant (PW-1) in connivance with the TLO (PW-10) to create evidence through a partisan witness acting and hence, the prosecution is guilty of deliberately associating an interested witness so as to fortify the alleged transaction of demand and acceptance of bribe. 18. Shri Naidu urged that the High Court cursorily brushed aside the crucial admission as appearing in the cross-examination of the complainant (PW-1)(reproduced supra) that the rexine bag of the appellant (AO1) from which the tainted currency notes were recovered had been handled by the complainant (PW-1), by observing that this was an afterthought. As per Shri Naidu, the said vital admission was spontaneously elicited during the cross-examination conducted from the complainant (PW-1) and thus, it cannot be ignored as being an afterthought. He contended that the prosecution consciously chose not to re-examine the complainant (PW-1) on this aspect of his testimony and thus, the defence cannot be denied to the benefit thereof. 19. Shri Naidu, further contended that no calls were made by the appellant (AO1) to the complainant (PW-1) proximate to the date of the trap. He drew the attention of the Court to the call detail records (CDR) of the appellant (AO1) and the complainant (PW-1) and urged that only two calls were exchanged between the appellant (AO1) and the complainant (PW-1), one being on 8th January, 2003 and the other on 17th January, 2003 and hence, the allegation made by the complainant (PW-1) in the FIR and in his deposition, that the appellant (AO1) called him on 21st January, 2003, 22nd January, 2003 and 23rd January, 2003 in connection with demand of bribe is falsified, creating a grave doubt on the veracity of the entire prosecution case. 20. Attention of the Court was also drawn to the pertinent admission made by the complainant (PW-1) in his testimony that while they were having coffee in the coffee shop of the Hotel Quality-Inn, he [2024] 7 S.C.R. 649 Mir Mustafa Ali Hasmi v. The State of A.P. took out the bribe amount and offered it to the appellant (AO1) who refused to accept the same. Shri Naidu thus, urged that it is crystal clear that the prosecution miserably failed to prove that the appellant (AO1) demanded or accepted any bribe amount from the complainant (PW-1). 21. On these grounds, learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant implored the Court to accept the appeal, set aside the impugned s and direct acquittal of the appellant (AO1) from the charges. Submission on behalf of the respondent-State: - 22. Per contra, learned standing counsel appearing for the State, vehemently and fervently opposed the submissions advanced on behalf of the appellant (AO1). He contended that the appellant (AO1) being the Forest Section Officer firstly, imposed an unwarranted fine amount of Rs.50,000/- on the saw-mill of the complainant (PW-1). Thereafter, extending a threat of repeated action thereby harming the business of the complainant (PW-1), the appellant (AO1), demanded a monthly amount of Rs.5,000/- as bribe (mamool) from the complainant (PW-1) which fact is duly corroborated from the evidence of the complainant (PW-1) and PW-2.