Mutual harmony and respect have to be maintained by all the three organs to serve the Constitution under which we all live. 449.9. We are of the view that fair comments on report of the Parliamentary Committee are fully protected under the rights guaranteed under Article 19(1)(a). However, the comments when turn into personal attack on the individual Member of Parliament or the House or made in vulgar or abusive language tarnishing the image of the Member or the House, the said comments amount to contempt of the House and breach of privilege. 449.10. The function of adjudicating rights of the parties has been entrusted to the constituted courts as per constitutional scheme, which adjudication has to be made after observing the procedural safeguards which include the right to be heard and the right to produce evidence. Parliament, however, is not vested with any adjudicatory jurisdiction which belongs to judicature under the constitutional scheme. 449.11. Admissibility of a Parliamentary Committee report in evidence does not mean that facts stated in the Report stand proved. When issues of facts come before a court of law for adjudication, the court is to decide the issues on the basis of evidence and materials brought before it.” (Emphasis supplied) 1928 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 29.4. The detailed discussion on the value of Parliamentary Committee reports as undertaken by the Constitution Bench sheds light by holding that there is no bar in taking into consideration such reports under Article 32 or Article 136 of the Constitution of India. At the same time, it has been observed that they are not to be taken as conclusive proof of fact and the Court in performing its adjudicatory functions has to decide on the basis of materials before it, however the latter should not be taken to mean that credit of such report is impeached. 29.5. The question at hand is the adequacy of the assessment and approval procedures for GM Crops. The task of this Court, is therefore to examine whether the impugned procedures rise to the level of a violation of fundamental rights. This is a legal determination to be made by this Court, based on all materials placed before it and a wholistic view of the matter. Even if the TEC and parliamentary standing committees have found certain issues with the procedures governing GM crops, that cannot automatically lead to the conclusion that gaps in the impugned procedures result in a violation of Part III of the Constitution of India and must be invalidated or that the impugned action be stalled. Therefore, I now proceed to examine, whether the gaps pointed out in the abovementioned reports, would reach the threshold of violating the precautionary principle and in that view of the matter, what directions must be given. Scope of Precautionary Principle 30. The genesis of the precautionary principle in India can be traced back to the decision of this Court in Vellore Citizens Welfare Forum v. Union of India (3-Judge Bench),35 wherein it was held that the precautionary principle is an essential feature of the principle of sustainable development.