It also means that a third party to the decree has a right to approach the Court even after dispossession of the immovable property, which he was occupying. In the case on hand, the predecessor of the respondents was not a party to the suit and he was dispossessed from the property, in [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1365 Renjith K.G. & Others v. Sheeba execution of the decree passed in the suit and therefore, he who is purported to be a stranger to the decree, can very well adjudicate his claim of independent right, title and interest in the decretal property as per XXI Rule 99 CPC. 15. In so far as the claim of appellants that the predecessor of the respondents, namely Mr. Raghuthaman, being pendent lite transferee and hence would have no locus to file the application seeking re- delivery, we have already held that “any person” not a party to the suit or in other words a stranger to the suit can seek re-delivery, after he has been dispossessed. The term “Stranger” would cover within its ambit, a pendent lite transferee, who has not been impleaded. That apart, the facts in the present case disclose that the property stood transferred to the predecessor of the respondents before the Final Decree was passed in 1970. The fact that Mr.Raghuthaman had successfully resisted the claim of the 9th Defendant for delivery of possession, in the presence of the predecessor of the appellant is not disputed. While so, it was incumbent on the appellants to have impleaded the predecessor of the respondents by filing an application under 21 Rule 97 of CPC, when they resisted the delivery. The pendent lite purchaser has every right to defend his right, title, interest and possession. This Court recently while adjudicating the right of a pendent lite transferee held as under: Yogesh Goyanka v. Govind (2024) 7 SCC 524 : 2024 SCC OnLine SC 1692 “16. The fulcrum of the dispute herein concerns the impleadment of a transferee pendente lite who undisputedly had notice of the pending litigation. At the outset, it appears pertinent to reiterate the settled position that the doctrine of lis pendens as provided under Section 52 of the Act does not render all transfers pendente lite to be void ab initio, it merely renders rights arising from such transfers as subservient to the rights of the parties to the pending litigation and subject to any direction that the Court may pass thereunder. “17. Therefore, the mere fact that RSD was executed during the pendency of the underlying suit does not automatically render it null and void. On this ground alone, we find the impugned to be wholly erroneous as 1366 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports it employs Section 52 of the Act to nullify RSD and on that basis, concludes that the impleadment application is untenable. Contrary to this approach of the High Court, the law on impleadment of subsequent transferees, as established by this Court has evolved in a manner that liberally enables subsequent transferees to protect their interests in recognition of the possibility that the transferor pendente lite may not defend the title or may collude with the plaintiff therein (see the decision of this Court in Amit Kumar Shaw v. Farida Khatoon [Amit Kumar Shaw v. Farida Khatoon (2005) 11 SCC 403] & A. Nawab John v. V.N.