On facts, it was found that the party alleged to have been cheated was fully conscious of the situation at the time it decided to enter into the contract and there was no dishonest inducement. 21. In the case on hand, there was disclosure of the fact that the subject land was mortgaged to secure the bank loan but despite the same, the AICTE granted approval for the ‘Business School of Delhi’ and it never complained that it was under any misinformation in that regard. Thus, the essential requisite to make out an offence of cheating is lacking. Mere carelessness on the part of the appellants in filling up the second and third applications and a part of the first application also cannot be taken to be motivated by deliberate deception, on the admitted factual position, so as to invite criminal charges. 22. Further, there is no evidence of the appellants consciously agreeing or conspiring to deliberately furnish false information to the AICTE so as to garner its approval for their colleges. As already noted, appellant No.1 filed the first application, divulging the relevant details of the bank loan and the mortgage over the leased land, but he failed to do so in the third application filed by him. Appellant No.2 filed the second application with the same non-disclosure but there is no evidence whatsoever of the appellants resorting to deception in that regard willfully and in connivance with each other. Therefore, the charge under Section 120B IPC also does not withstand judicial scrutiny. 23. As regards the objection raised by the appellants as to the maintainability of the CBI’s petition filed before the High Court under Section 482 Cr.P.C., we may note that, as per Article 131 in the Schedule to the Limitation Act, 1963, the limitation period for filing a criminal revision 2 [2010] 11 SCR 788 : (2010) 10 SCC 361 [2024] 4 S.C.R. 319 Vipin Sahni and Another v. Central Bureau of Investigation under Section 397 Cr.P.C, be it before the High Court or the Sessions Court, is 90 days. However, there is no limitation prescribed for invocation of the inherent powers of the High Court under Section 482 Cr.P.C. and it can be at any time. It is a matter of record that when the learned Special Magistrate, CBI Court, dismissed the appellants’ discharge petition in the first instance, they had filed a revision before the Sessions Court under Section 397 Cr.P.C. and the matter was remanded for hearing afresh. However, the CBI did not choose to adopt this course when the appellants’ discharge petition was allowed by the learned Special Magistrate in the second round. Long after the expiry of the limitation period of 90 days, the CBI filed a petition before the High Court at Allahabad under Section 482 Cr.P.C. This was obviously to get over the hurdle of the limitation for filing of a revision under Section 397 Cr.P.C. In this regard, useful reference may be made to the decision of this Court in Mohit alias Sonu and another vs. State of U.P.