The liability to pay compensation stands fastened upon him. Admittedly, the vehicle was uninsured.’ (emphasis is ours) 23. Notably, the High Court overlooked the fact that the above was rendered in the context of and for the purposes of the Act of 1988 and not for general application. The itself made it clear that despite the sale/transfer of the vehicle in question, a claimant or claimants should not be made to run from pillar to post to find out who was the owner of the vehicle as on the date of the accident, if the sale/transfer was not carried out in their books by the authorities concerned by registering the name of the subsequent owner, be it for whatever reason. Further, vehicles being goods, their sale would be covered by the provisions of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930 (for brevity, ‘the Act of 1930’), and the same make it clear that conveyance of ownership of the vehicle would stand concluded upon execution of the document of sale/transfer and registration of the new owner by the authorities concerned would be a post-sale event. Section 2(7) of the Act of 1930 defines goods, inter alia, to mean every kind of movable property, other than actionable claims and money. Chapter III of the Act of 1930 is titled ‘Effects of the Contract’ and ‘Transfer of property as between seller and buyer’. Section 18 therein states that where there is a contract for the sale of unascertained goods, no property in the goods is transferred to the buyer unless and until the goods are ascertained. Section 19, however, states that the property passes when intended to pass and elaborates that, where there is a contract for the sale of specific or ascertained goods, the property in them is transferred to the buyer at such time as the parties to the contract intend it to be transferred. 24. In Commissioner of Commercial Taxes, Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala vs. K.T.C. Automobiles4, this Court observed that registration 4 [2016] 1 SCR 994 : (2016) 4 SCC 82 412 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of a motor vehicle is a post-sale event but the question would arise as to when the property in the motor vehicle actually passed to the buyer. That was a case involving the first sale of a motor vehicle by the dealer to the first owner and is, therefore, distinguishable from the subsequent sale of a vehicle, as in the case on hand. It was observed therein that registration of a motor vehicle is a post-sale event but only after obtaining valid registration under the Act of 1988, a purchaser would get entitlement to use the vehicle in a public place. It was observed that the purchaser, as an owner under the Act of 1988, was obliged to obtain the certificate of registration, which alone would entitle him to enjoy the possession of the vehicle by using it in public places after meeting the other statutory obligations of insurance, etc. This Court rejected the contention that motor vehicles would be ‘unascertained goods’ till their engine number or chassis number is entered in the Certificate of Registration, as the sale invoice itself would disclose such particulars, so that the owner of the vehicle may apply for registration of that specific vehicle in his name.