44. His Lordship, Varadachariar, J, in his concurring opinion, expressed that the question of whether or not the act complained of is one “purporting to be done in execution of his duty” as a public servant is substantially one of fact which is to be determined with reference to the act complained of along with the attendant circumstances. It would not be wise nor desirable to lay down any hard and fast tests in this regard. 45. The Judicial Committee of the Privy Council in Gill and Another v. The King reported in AIR 1948 PC 128 was faced with deciding whether sanction was required under Section 197 CrPC for the prosecution of a public servant charged with the offence of bribery and/or conspiracy to take bribes. The Court was of the opinion that it was impossible to distinguish or differentiate between S. 270 of the Government of India Act, 1935 and S. 197 CrPC, at least in relation to offences of this character. Therefore, the decision in Dr. Hori Ram Singh (supra) would be of great assistance in cases pertaining to S. 197 as well. It was observed that a public servant can only be said to act or purport to act in the discharge of his official duty, if his act is as such as to lie within the scope of his official duty. Therefore, the test may well be whether the public servant, if challenged, can reasonably claim that, what he does, he does in virtue of his office. The relevant observations are reproduced hereinbelow: “A public servant can only be said to act or to purport to act in the discharge of his official duty, if his act is such [2024] 12 S.C.R. 801 Om Prakash Yadav v. Niranjan Kumar Upadhyay & Ors. as to lie within the scope of his official duty. Thus, a judge neither acts nor purports to act as a judge in receiving a bribe, though the which he delivers may be such an act: nor does a Government medical officer act or purport to act as a public servant in picking the pocket of a patient whom he is examining, though the examination itself may be such an act. The test may well be whether the public servant, if challenged, can reasonably claim that, what he does, he does in virtue of his office” Applying such a test to the present case, it seems clear that Gill could not justify the acts in respect of which he was charged as acts done by him by virtue of the office that he held. Without further examination of the authorities their Lordships, finding themselves in general agreement with the opinion of the Federal Court in the case cited, think it sufficient to say that in their opinion no sanction under s. 197 of the Code of Criminal Procedure was needed.” (emphasis supplied) 46. In Albert West Meads v. The King reported in AIR 1948 PC 156, the Privy Council echoed the view taken in Gill (supra) and held that the appellant in that case could not justify that the act of fraudulently misapplying money entrusted to his care as a public servant was an act done by him by virtue of his office.