A prudent man faced with conflicting probabilities concerning a fact- situation will act on the supposition that the fact exists, if on weighing the various probabilities he finds that the preponderance is in favour of the existence of the particular fact. As a prudent man, so the Court applies this test for finding whether a fact in issue can be said to be proved. The first step in this process is to fix the probabilities, the second to weigh them, though the two may often intermingle. The impossible is weeded out at the first stage, the improbable at the second. Within the wide range of probabilities the Court has often a difficult choice to make but it is this choice which ultimately determines where the preponderance of probabilities lies…” 45. While considering the identity of the accused who stood convicted under the said dated 07.01.1996 it is relevant to note the initial observation of the trial Court at paragraph 54 of its . At the risk of repetition, it is referred to hereunder thus: - “The certified copy disclose that Shama was found while travelling between Gondia to Raipur without ticket.” 17 [1975] 3 SCR 967 : [(1975) 2 SCC 326] 752 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 46. In this context, it is to be noted that neither the trial Court nor the High Court arrived at a specific finding that the dated 07.01.1996 of the Railway Court, Raipur, was not in existence or that it pertains to the conviction of a different person. How can such an be ignored by stating that being a dreadful criminal he would not have been caught easily or even if caught he would have avoided arrest and conviction by depositing a fine of Rs. 50/-. It is in this context that the further case of the prosecution, that to create an impression that Shama @ Kalya had escaped from police custody and the accused had staged a drama, has to be looked into. According to the prosecution, in that regard one Dipak Lokhande was made to disguise as Shama @ Kalya and made to jump from a police vehicle by the accused. The evidence would reveal that though prosecution itself had examined the said Dipak Lokhande, a police official to prove the said case, but he turned hostile and did not support the prosecution case. It is in this context that the decision of this Court in Sharad Birdhichand Sarda’s case (supra) holding that it is not the law that where there is any infirmity or lacuna in the prosecution case, the same could be cured or supplied by a false defence or plea which is not accepted by a court, assumes relevance. In such circumstances, the dated 07.01.1996 mentioned above only probabilise the case of defence. It is in the aforesaid context that the failure of the prosecution to prove that Shama’s homicidal death had occurred in Detective Branch room of Gondia police station has to be viewed. It is relevant to note that the prosecution had examined one Gopal Dinaji Bansod as PW 11 to prove disposal of dead body by police.