13. In to avoid this inconvenience, Section 132 of the Act, withdrew this absolute privilege and affords only a qualified privilege. The witness is deprived of the privilege of claiming excuse from testifying altogether; but, while subjecting him to compulsion, the legislature, in to remove any inducement to falsehood, declared that evidence so obtained should not be used against him, except for the purpose in the Act declared. 14. It must also be borne in mind that the proviso to Section 132 of the Act is also an extension of the protection enshrined under Article 20(3) of the Constitution of India which confers a fundamental right that “no person accused of any offence shall be compelled to be a witness against himself”. Under the constitutional scheme, the right is available only to a person who is accused of an offence, the proviso to Section 132 of the Act, in extension, creates a statutory immunity in favour of a witness who in the process of giving evidence in any suit or in any civil or criminal proceeding makes a statement which criminates himself. It is settled that the proviso to Section 132 of the Act is a necessary corollary to the principle enshrined under Article 20(3) of the Constitution of India which confers a fundamental right that “no person accused of any offence shall be compelled to be a witness against himself ”.8 6 See Woodroffe & Amir Ali, Law of Evidence, Twenty-first edition, 2020 pp.4377 (Syn 132.1) R v. Gopal Dass, (1881) 3 Mad 271 7 WM Best, A Treatise on the Principles of Evidence, 4th Edn, H Sweet, London, 1866, p 126 8 Laxmipat Choraria v. State of Maharashtra AIR 1968 SC 938 [2024] 9 S.C.R. 369 Raghuveer Sharan v. District Sahakari Krishi Gramin Vikas Bank & Anr. 15. A perusal of the legislative history would reveal that the object of the law is to secure evidence which could not have been obtained. The purpose for granting such a statutory immunity was to enable the court to reach a just conclusion (and thus assisting the process of law). 16. In R. Dinesh Kumar alias Deena (supra), the two judges Bench of this Court observed, after referring to Justice Muttusami Ayyar’s opinion in the matter of “The Queen vs. Gopal Doss & Anr.” 9 that the policy under Section 132 of the Act appears to be to secure the evidence from whatever sources it is available for doing justice in a case brought before the court. In the course of securing such evidence, if a witness who is under obligation to state the truth because of the Oath taken by him makes any statement which will criminate or tend to expose such a witness to a “penalty or forfeiture of any kind etc.”, the proviso grants immunity to such a witness by declaring that “no such answer given by the witness shall subject him to any arrest or prosecution or be proved against him in any criminal proceeding”. This Court in R. Dinesh Kumar alias Deena (supra) further observed in para 47 that no prosecution can be launched against the maker of a statement falling within the sweep of Section 132 of the Act on the basis of the “answer” given by a person while deposing as a “witness” before a Court.