No reliance can be placed on the said complaints at all. 11. Mr. Patwalia thus submitted that this Court may not only allow the M.A. as prayed but may also consider setting aside the Termination now passed on 02.04.2024 with retrospective effect from 17.12.2009 and reinstate the appellant back in service with full back wages and all consequential benefits. 12. It is also submitted that there could not have been any backdating of the Termination being made effective from a previous date. The Termination can be effective only from the date it is served on the employee. As such the dated 02.04.2024 deserves to be quashed. 146 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 13. Mr. Patwalia has relied upon the of this Court in State Bank of Patiala and another vs. Ramniwas Bansal (dead) through Lrs. ;1 for the proposition that the dismissal cannot be made with retrospective effect, and it would only have prospective effect. 14. Before we deal with the submissions of Mr. Nidhesh Gupta, learned senior counsel appearing for the High Court, we may mention the response of the State as put forth by Additional Advocate General. According to Mr. Gaurav Dhama the State did not pass any consequential after the dated 20.04.2022. He further submitted that the dated 02.04.2024 has been passed as per the resolution of the Full Court of the High Court. He, however, did not address the issue as to whether the termination could have been passed making it effective from an earlier date. 15. Mr. Nidhesh Gupta, learned senior counsel appearing for the High Court justified not only the subsequent compliance affected by the High Court and also the resolution of the Full Court of the High Court to terminate the service of the appellant w.e.f. the earlier date and also the termination issued by the State Government on 02.04.2024. On a specific query as to how the High Court could have proceeded against an officer who was not taken into service by passing a resolution of terminating the services from the previous date, he has sought to mix the issue by submitting that as the appellant was a probationer and his services were terminated as a probationer, if he was taken back in service during the period, the High Court was to take a fresh decision as required by this Court, then he would be treated as a regular employee because the period of probation under the Rules is only for a limited period of maximum three years and not beyond. 16. Mr. Gupta also had no answer as to why the High Court took one and half years to take the decision. He however expressed his inability to explain the delay on the part of the State for issue of termination after eight months of the resolution of the Full Court of the High Court. Mr. Gupta further addressed the Court raising the point that any preliminary enquiry conducted to ascertain the suitability of a probationer and if termination follows without giving an opportunity, it will not be bad and will be a case of motive.