7. Being aggrieved, the Telecom Department, the respondent herein, filed a Civil Revision Petition before the High Court which was allowed by the High Court by the impugned before us. The High Court looked into sub-clause (iv) of Clause 1 of the Contract entered between parties which provides for the scope of the grant of interest on certain payment. The sub clause is as under:- “No interest will be payable on the earnest money or security deposit amount or any amount payable to the contractor under the contract.” 8. Assuming that the above referred clause of interest is an agreement between the parties prohibiting the grant of interest, the High Court proceeded to allow the Revision and set aside the grant of interest. The High court referred to the decision of this Court in Jaiprakash Associates Ltd. v. Tehri Hydro Development Corporation (India) Ltd.5 and came to the conclusion that the Supreme Court has laid down a precedent that interest cannot be paid when a contractual clause specifically prohibits it. 9. We are of the opinion that the of High Court is clearly erroneous. Firstly, the interest granted by the First Appellate Court only related to post award period, and therefore, for this period, the agreement between the parties has no bearing. Section 31(7)(b) deals with grant of interest for post award period i.e., from the date of the award till its realization. The statutory scheme relating to grant of interest provided in Section 31(7) creates a distinction between interest payable before and after the award. So far as the interest before the passing of the award is concerned, it is regulated by Section 31(7)(a) of the Act which provides that the grant of interest shall be subject to the agreement between the parties. This is evident from the specific expression at the commencement of the sub-section which says “unless otherwise agreed by the parties”. 5 [2019] 2 SCR 41 : (2019) 17 SCC 786 [2024] 9 S.C.R. 767 R.P. Garg v. The Chief General Manager, Telecom Department & Ors. 10. The relevant extract of Section 31 of the Act is reproduced herein for ready reference: “31 Form and contents of arbitral award. “… 7(a) Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, where and in so far as an arbitral award is for the payment of money, the arbitral tribunal may include in the sum for which the award is made interest, at such rate as it deems reasonable, on the whole or any part of the money, for the whole or any part of the period between the date on which the cause of action arose and the date on which the award is made. (b) A sum directed to be paid by an arbitral award shall, unless the award otherwise directs, carry interest at the rate of two per cent, higher than the current rate of interest prevalent on the date of award, from the date of award to the date of payment.” 11. So far as the entitlement of the post-award interest is concerned, sub-Section (b) of Section 31(7) provides that the sum directed to be paid by the Arbitral Tribunal shall carry interest.