These salutary objectives of the IBC can be achieved if the integrity of the resolution process is placed at the forefront. Primarily, the IBC is a legislation aimed at reorganisation and resolution of insolvencies. Liquidation is a matter of last resort. These objectives can be achieved only through a purposive interpretation which requires courts, while infusing meaning and content to its provisions, to ensure that the problems which beset the earlier regime do not enter through the backdoor through disingenuous stratagems.” (emphasis supplied) 39. From the above, the following guiding principles emerge, which we must keep in mind while determining the issues raised in the present appeal: a. A significant change brought about by the IBC was the consolidation of the pre-existing fragmented insolvency framework, The aim was to eliminate parallel proceedings by various creditors before different fora, given that all creditors would be a part of a single insolvency process under the IBC; b. The above consolidation also sought to implement the principle of ‘collective distribution’, where the interests of all stakeholders were considered. The CIRP envisaged by the IBC is premised on the principle that each creditor of the 1828 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports same class should receive a share that is proportionate to the debt owed to him; c. IBC must not be used as a tool for coercion and debt recovery by individual creditors. Improper use of the IBC mechanism by a creditor includes using insolvency as a substitute for debt enforcement or attempting to obtain preferential payments by coercing the debtor using insolvency proceedings. That the mechanism under the IBC must not be used as a money recovery mechanism has been reiterated in a consistent line of precedent by this Court;25 and d. The interests of the corporate debtor must be detached from those of its promoters/those who are in management. A “recalcitrant management”26 must be prevented from taking advantage of undue delays and preventing an inevitable insolvency. In other words, as noted by this Court in Arun Kumar Jagatramka (supra), the economic value of corporate structures is broader than the partisan interests of their management. b. Nature of the proceedings after admission of the application 40. Chapter II of the IBC provides that CIRP can be invoked in three ways: (i) by a financial creditor under Section 7; (ii) by an operational creditor under Section 9; and (iii) by a corporate debtor itself under Section 10.27 Section 5(11) of the IBC defines the “initiation date” as the date on which the financial creditor, operational creditor or corporate applicant makes an application to the NCLT for initiating insolvency proceedings, including CIRP. This is distinct from the “insolvency commencement date” which is defined in Section 5(12) of the IBC as the date of admission of an application for initiating CIRP by the NCLT under Sections 7, 9 or 10, as the case may be. 41. Once the application is admitted, the CIRP commences and the NCLT inter alia declares a moratorium; issues a public pronouncement 25 Swiss Ribbons, para 28; 26 Mobilox, para 36.