While the aforesaid petition was pending, the learned Chief Judge, Calcutta passed an dated 22nd September, 2022 extending the period of detention of accused upto 180 days under Section 43D(2)(b) of UAPA and permitted the investigating agency to file charge sheet beyond the period of 90 days but within 180 days. 9. The High Court proceeded to accept the petition vide dated 11th May, 2023 and quashed the proceedings of the case registered against the respondent to the extent of the offences punishable under the provisions of UAPA, holding that only a Special Court constituted by the Central Government or the State Government as per the National Investigation Agency Act, 2008(hereinafter being referred to as ‘NIA Act’) had the exclusive jurisdiction to try the offences under UAPA. It was further held that as per Section 16 of the NIA Act, the Sessions Court was precluded from taking cognizance of the offences under UAPA and thus the dated 7th April, 2022 and all subsequent proceedings taken thereunder were without jurisdiction. 10. The aforesaid dated 11th May, 2023 allowing the petition filed by the respondent is under challenge at the instance of the State of West Bengal in this appeal by special leave. 644 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Submissions on behalf of appellant:- 11. Shri Siddhartha Dave, learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant contended that the instant case involves investigation and prosecution by the state police and not by the Central Agency, i.e., National Investigation Agency. He urged that the proceedings would be governed by Section 22 of NIA Act and hence the High Court fell in grave error of law in quashing the proceedings by relying upon the provisions contained under Section 16 of NIA Act. 12. Learned senior counsel further urged that as the case was investigated by the State police and since no Special Court had been constituted by the State Government under Section 22(1) of NIA Act, the Sessions Court having jurisdiction over the division in which the offence was committed, was seized of the exclusive jurisdiction to try the offences as per Section 22(3) of NIA Act. 13. He further urged that since no Special Court was constituted, the jurisdictional Magistrate, who would be the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate in this case, has the jurisdiction to deal with the remand of the accused. Nonetheless, Shri Dave candidly conceded that the power to extend the period of detention beyond 90 days is exclusively vested with the ‘Court’ as defined under Section 2(1)(d) of UAPA which would be the jurisdictional Sessions Court in the present set of facts and circumstances. 14. Without prejudice to the above, the contention of the learned senior counsel was that since the accused never filed an application seeking default bail, after the expiry of 90 days and before filing of the charge sheet, the irregularity, if any, in the matter of granting remand stood cured and hence, the accused has lost the right to claim release on default bail. He thus implored the Court to accept the appeal and set aside the impugned and permit the Sessions Court to proceed with the trial of the accused for the offences charged including those under UAPA.