Ms. Kaur concluded by arguing that the appellant’s case was one of wrongful discharge, based on a wrong diagnosis. 4. Per contra, Mr. Balasubramanian, learned senior counsel for the respondents contended that the appellant had never been discharged solely on the basis of his HIV+ve status, the same being evident from his uninterrupted service from 1999 till April 2001. The doctors at the time, on the basis of their best professional and giving due regard to the medical knowledge prevalent in 2001, diagnosed the appellant with neuro-tuberculosis, which led to a change in status of the appellant from HIV+ve to “AIDS related complex”. It was further argued that the appellant responded well to anti-tuberculosis treatment, thus confirming the diagnosis of the time. It was further contended that his survival ought to be attributed to be a natural variation in the course of the disease rather than a misdiagnosis on the part of the medical professionals. With respect to the appellant’s allegation that his double vision was mistaken for blindness, Mr. Balasubramanian further argued that the appellant had placed no documents on record to prove such a claim, and that the tuberculosis diagnosis was made only after detailed investigations. It was also argued that AIDS would expectedly lead to a deterioration in the health of the appellant, which is why he was discharged under the P5 category, having been found grossly unfit for medical service. ANALYSIS 5. We have heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the impugned as well as the other materials on record. [2024] 3 S.C.R. 873 Satyanand Singh v. Union of India & Ors. 6. The AFT, in the impugned , has referred to extensive medical literature citing the hazards of HIV and how it can lead to a deterioration in the physical condition of those who get detected as HIV+ve. However, while the medical literature contemplates myriad infirmities which accompany such a disease and consequently render an individual unfit for military service, the AFT failed to observe that the appellant in the present case was not diagnosed with any such symptoms. The appellant was treated by the Command Hospital at Pune in 2001, and by the respondents’ admission, successfully responded to the treatment administered. Nothing has been brought on record to indicate that the appellant was thereafter unfit to continue in service as a Clerk. 7. We have no doubt in our mind that this is a case of wrong diagnosis and false alarm with imperilling consequences for the appellant. The respondents’ contention that doctors in 2001 have used their best professional to opine that the appellant was HIV+ve, in our opinion, should be rejected, in the absence of any medical literature to show that the test results as per then prevailing medical standards justify the diagnosis that the appellant was suffering from AIDS defining illness. On the other hand, there are lapses galore on the part of the respondents. They were, in spite of being aware of the adverse and pernicious impact on the appellant, grossly careless and negligent.