4463 of 2024 From the and dated 29.09.2023 of the High Court of Gujarat at Ahmedabad in CRMA No. 15041 of 2023 Appearances for Parties Ms. Indira Jaising, Sr. Adv., Paras Nath Singh, Rohin Bhatt, Sadeeq UR Rahman, Advs. for the Appellant. Ms. Ruchi Kohli, Rakesh Khanna, Sr. Advs., Ms. Swati Ghildiyal, Ms. Devyani Bhatt, Ms. Abhipsa Mohanty, Ms. Shrishti Mishra, Rakesh Malhotra, Ms. Savita Singh, Kushal Malhotra, Advs. for the Respondents. 794 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports / of the Supreme Court Abahy S. Oka, J. 1. Leave granted. FACTUAL DETAILS 2. The appellant is the first informant. A First Information Report was registered at the instance of the appellant for the offences punishable under Sections 376(2)(N) and 506 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (for short, ‘the IPC’). The offences under Section 3(1)(R), 3(1)(w) and 3(2)(5) of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989 (for short, ‘the Atrocities Act’) were also alleged. The second respondent is the accused named in the FIR. A charge sheet was filed against the second respondent for the said offences. 3. The second respondent filed a petition before the High Court for quashing the charge sheet based on the settlement allegedly arrived at between the parties. The High Court, by the impugned and , has proceeded to quash the criminal proceedings with a direction that the compensation received by the appellant under the Atrocities Act shall be refunded to the concerned authority. SUBMISSIONS 4. The contentions raised by the learned Senior Counsel appearing for the appellant can be summarized as follows: (a) The High Court ought not to have quashed the criminal proceedings without securing the personal presence of the appellant before it and without verifying from the appellant whether there was a settlement; (b) Inviting our attention to the affidavits allegedly affirmed by the appellant, which are referred to in paragraph 5 of the impugned , she submitted that, on the face of it, the affidavits are suspicious. The first affidavit is in English and was executed at Ahmedabad on 18th August 2023. The second affidavit, which is in Gujarati language, was allegedly executed by the appellant on the same day at Rajkot. The appellant is illiterate and has [2024] 11 S.C.R. 795 XYZ v. The State of Gujarat & Anr. allegedly put her thumb impressions on the affidavits. She submitted that there is no endorsement on the affidavit made by the witness or Advocate representing the appellant or the notary public that the contents of the affidavit were explained to her. It is submitted that in the absence of any such endorsement, the High Court ought not to have relied upon the affidavits and that also without securing the personal presence of the appellant and without verifying from the appellant whether there was a settlement; (c) She submitted that, as pointed out in the counter filed by the second respondent, an objectionable practice was followed of producing the affidavits signed by the complainant/victim along with the quashing petition.