Reference was made to the secular nature of the education provided therein, to the history of AMU as a national institution and the correspondences between British officials prior to the passage of the Act to show that their intent was to have significant control over the administration of the educational institution sought to be established. Reference was further made to the Parliamentary debates on the amending acts of 1965 and 1981. 54. It was asserted, through various examples, that in a pre-constitutional context, the British Government had the power to require a community to establish a university on the Government’s own terms. It was sought to be argued that the AMU was a secular institution and not a denominational university as the proponents of AMU may have wished for. It was argued that since there was no Article 30 at the said time, there was no right to establish a university free of government control while still seeking governmental recognition of degrees. 55. The Solicitor General took the Court through the history of establishment of Universities in the country. It was argued that the history of universities under British rule to show that government control was a built-in feature so far as educational institutions were concerned. Reference was made to the history of the split between the AMU and the Jamia Milia Islamia to argue that the AMU chose to remain under government patronage while the Jamia was established as a “nationalist” college. 56. It was asserted that it was open to the AMU to remain a college and be free of government control or to establish a university without recognition of its degrees by the government but it chose not to exercise these options. The substance of the submission was that the right of administration was ‘surrendered’ when the proponents [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1937 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. of the AMU accepted establishment by statute of the kind made by the 1920 Act. 57. The Solicitor General made an attempt to distinguish the concept of being established by an Act from the concept of being established under an Act. The decision in Dalco Engineering Pvt. Ltd. v. Satish Prabhakar Padhye, (2010) 4 SCC 378, was cited to urge that the AMU owes the whole of its existence to a statute and thus it cannot be said that the statute was a mere recognition of an existing arrangement. It was argued that through the 1920 Act, the establishment of the AMU was the fresh establishment of an entirely new body. 58. It was argued that the rights of establishment and administration are distinct and separate. Reference in this regard was made to Re: Kerala Education Bill, 1957, [supra]. The thrust of the argument was that the institution must be shown to have been established by the minority community. Only when this preliminary fact is proved, would “administration” come into the picture. According to him, the words “establish and administer” must be read conjunctively i.e. there can be no right of administration separate from establishment.