The relevant part of the observations is extracted below: "11. That takes us to Article 11 which empowers the Parliament to regulate the right of citizenship by law. It provides that nothing in the foregoing provisions of Part II shall derogate from the power of Parliament to make any provision with respect to the acquisition and termination of citizenship and all other matters relating to citizenship. It would thus be noticed that while making provisions for recognising the right of citizenship in the individuals as indicated by the respective articles, and while guaranteeing the continuance of the said rights of citizenship as specified by Article 10, Article 11 confers and recognises the power of the Parliament to make any provision with respect to not only acquisition but also the termination of citizenship as well as all matters relating to citizenship. Thus, it would be open to the Parliament to affect the rights of citizenship and the provisions made 50 [1962] Supp. 3 SCR 235 : 1962 SCC OnLine SC 1 1264 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports by the Parliamentary statute in that behalf cannot be impeached on the ground that they are inconsistent with the provisions contained in Articles 5 to 10 of Part II. In this connection, it is important to bear in mind that Article 11 has been included in Part II in to make it clear that the sovereign right of the Parliament to deal with citizenship and all questions connected with it is not impaired by the rest of the provisions of the said Part. Therefore, the sovereign legislative competence of the Parliament to deal with the topic of citizenship which is a part of Entry 17 in List I of the Seventh Schedule is very wide and not fettered by the provisions of Articles 5 to 10 of Part II of the Constitution. This aspect of the matter may have relevance in dealing with the contention raised by the petitioners that their rights under Article 19 are affected by the impugned provisions of Section 9(2) of the Act.” (emphasis supplied) 40. By the above observations, the Court did not read in a non-obstante clause in Article 11. This is clear from the observations in the subsequent paragraph where this Court discusses the alleged conflict between Article 9 of the Constitution and Section 9 of the Citizenship Act. Section 9 of the Citizenship Act provides that any person who has acquired citizenship of another country between the commencement of the Constitution and the commencement of the Act shall cease to be a citizen of India. While dealing with Section 9, this Court observed that Article 9 dealt with the acquisition of citizenship of a foreign State prior to the commencement of the Constitution. As opposed to Article 9, Section 9 dealt with the acquisition of citizenship after the commencement of the Constitution.51 Thus, the possibility of the provisions of parliamentary law conflicting with Article 9 (and other provisions of the Constitution) would not arise.52 In Izhar Ahmed 51 Also see State of UP v. Shah Mohammed (1969) 1 SCC 771 [5] 52 “12.