21. Our attention was drawn to an passed on 14.12.2022 in which a Coordinate Bench was of the prima facie opinion that the applicant may be entitled to LPS as per Article 8.3.5 of PPA-2010, at least from 31.08.2020, till the actual payment was made pursuant to the passed by this Court in the contempt proceedings. This prima facie view was expressed in the course of hearing of the present application only. We have examined the issue in greater detail. As we have already indicated, the applicant, after the three-Judge Bench decision was delivered, did not file any petition for review. On the other hand, it was the Rajasthan Discoms that had filed the review petitions which stood dismissed. In the contempt action instituted by the applicant, the question concerning payment of LPS was raised, but the Bench of this Court found that the same was not the subject in question in the contempt proceedings regarding which no direction [2024] 3 S.C.R. 1043 Jaipur Vidyut Vitran Nigam Ltd. & Ors. v. Adani Power Rajasthan Ltd. & Anr. had been issued by this Court. Hence the Coordinate Bench decided not to address that question in the contempt proceedings. In this judgement, we have already quoted the observations regarding the question of LPS made by the Contempt Court on 25.02.2022 and 19.04.2022. Despite that question being left open by the Contempt Court, we are of the view that a miscellaneous application is not the proper legal course to make demand on that count. A relief of this nature cannot be asked for in a miscellaneous application which was described in the course of hearing as an application for clarification. 22. So far as the observations made in the passed in the present proceedings on 14.12.2022 are concerned, they were made only at a prima facie stage and do not have binding effect at the hearing stage. Moreover, the question whether such a prayer could be made in an application labeled as a “Miscellaneous Application” taken out in connection with a set of appeals which have been finally decided, does not appear to have been considered by this Court at the time of making of the dated 14.12.2022. The of this Court does not reflect any discussion on the issue of maintainability of the present application. It also does not appear to us that the maintainability issue was raised at that stage. Thus, mere making of such observations cannot be construed to mean that this Court found such application to be maintainable. 23. We, accordingly, dismiss the present application. This application was listed before us on several occasions and for that reason we impose costs of Rs. 50,000/- to be paid by the applicant to be remitted to the Supreme Court Legal Aid Committee. Headnotes prepared by: Result of the case: Raghav Bhatia, Hony. Associate Editor Application dismissed (Verified by: Abhinav Mukerji, Sr. Adv.)