The appellant also submitted that assuming without conceding that delay can be condoned in exercise of powers under Section 5 of the Limitation Act, the facts do not warrant exercise of discretionary powers as no application for the condonation of delay has been filed by the respondent. It was further contended that the nature of relief sought for under Section 5 of the Limitation Act being discretionary in nature, the conduct of the respondent disentitles him to grant of such relief. [2024] 12 S.C.R. 193 M/s HPCL Bio-Fuels Ltd. v. M/s Shahaji Bhanudas Bhad 112. The following three questions fall for our consideration on the basis of the aforesaid submissions – i. Whether the benefit of condonation of delay under Section 5 of the Limitation Act is available in respect of an application for appointment of arbitrator under Section 11(6) of the Act, 1996? ii. Whether it is permissible for the courts to condone delay under Section 5 of the Limitation Act in the absence of any application seeking such condonation? iii. Whether the facts of the present case warrant the exercise of discretion in favour of the respondent to condone the delay in filing the second arbitration application? 113. Section 5 of the Limitation Act provides that any appeal or application other than an application under the provisions of 21 of the CPC may be admitted after the prescribed period of limitation if the appellant or the applicant satisfies the court that he had sufficient cause for not preferring the appeal or making the application within the prescribed period. The provision is extracted hereinbelow: “5. Extension of prescribed period in certain cases.— Any appeal or any application, other than an application under any of the provisions of XXI of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908), may be admitted after the prescribed period if the appellant or the applicant satisfies the court that he had sufficient cause for not preferring the appeal or making the application within such period. Explanation.—The fact that the appellant or the applicant was misled by any , practice or of the High Court in ascertaining or computing the prescribed period may be sufficient cause within the meaning of this section.” 114. The use of the expression “may be admitted” in the aforesaid provision indicates that the nature of relief that can be granted under Section 5 is discretionary and not mandatory in nature. The applicant or the appellant, even upon showing sufficient cause, cannot assert as a matter of right that the delay be condoned. Thus, unlike Section 14 of the Limitation Act, where the applicant can seek the exclusion of time period as a matter of right upon fulfilment of the mandatory conditions, Section 5 of the Limitation Act leaves the ultimate decision 194 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of extending the benefit of condonation of delay to the court before which the application for such condonation is made. 115. In a recent pronouncement in Pathapati Subba Reddy (Died) by LRs and Others v. The Special Deputy Collector (LA) reported in (2024) 4 SCR 241 this Court observed thus: “12.