Identical words are used in Section 8(b) of the Central Sales Tax Act 1956. This court was called upon to find out the scope of that expression in M/s. J.K. Cotton Spinning & Weaving Mills Co Ltd. Vs. Sales Tax [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1597 M/s Bharti Airtel Ltd. v. The Commissioner of Central Excise, Pune Officer, Kanpur and Anr. (AIR 1965 SC 1310). Dealing with that expression this Court observed: The expression “in the manufacture of goods” would normally encompass the entire process carried on by the dealer of converting raw materials into finished goods. Where any particular process is so integrally connected with the ultimate production of goods that but for that process, manufacture or processing of goods would be commercially inexpedient, goods required in that process would, in our , fall within the expression “in the manufacture of goods. In the present case the assessee company has sold the goods in question to certain manufactures who were manufacturing iron steel materials. It is also clear from question no. (i) that those gloves were to be used by workmen who were engaged in hot jobs or in handling corrosive substances in the course of manufacture. That being so it cannot be denied that those gloves had to be used in the course of manufacture.” 11.12.3 It may be noted that in the definition of “input” under Rule 2(k) when it relates to providing output service it has been simply defined as all goods, except light diesel oil, high speed diesel oil, motor spirit, commonly known as petrol and the motor vehicles used for providing any output service. However, when the word “input” is defined relating to manufacture of product, it has been defined in a broad and expensive manner to mean all goods except light diesel oil, high speed diesel oil and motor vehicle spirit commonly as petrol, (i) used in or in relation to the manufacture of final products, (ii) whether directly or indirectly, 1598 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (iii) whether contained in the final product or not, (iv) and includes lubricating oils, greases, cutting oils, coolants, accessories of the final product cleared along with the final products, (v) goods used as paint, or as packing material, or as fuel, or for generation of electricity or steam, used in or in relation to manufacture of final products, (vi) or for any other purpose, within the factory of production. Thus, “input” in relation to manufacturing of final product would mean not only those which are directly used but also indirectly used not only for manufacture of final product whether contained in the final product or not but also used in relation to manufacture of final product or for any of other purpose. However, as mentioned above when “input” has been defined with reference to providing output service, the definition clauses does not explain it so elaborately but merely uses the simple expression i.e. “used for providing any output service”. In our view, even if the definition of “input” with reference to output service may not have been explained in an expansive manner as in the case of manufacture of final product under Rule 2(k)(i), the definition of “input” with reference to providing output service under Rule 2(k)(ii) need not be given a restrictive meaning as sought to be done by the CESTAT by holding that tower is not used directly for transmission of signal.