Explanation.—For the purposes of this section, “debt or other liability” means a legally enforceable debt or other liability.’ 2 ‘391. Appellate Court may take further evidence or direct it to be taken.—(1) In dealing with any appeal under this Chapter, the Appellate Court, if it thinks additional evidence to be necessary, shall record its reasons and may either take such evidence itself, or direct it to be taken by a Magistrate, or when the Appellate Court is a High Court, by a Court of Session or a Magistrate. (2) When the additional evidence is taken by the Court of Session or the Magistrate, it or he shall certify such evidence to the Appellate Court, and such Court shall thereupon proceed to dispose of the appeal. (3) The accused or his pleader shall have the right to be present when the additional evidence is taken. (4) The taking of evidence under this section shall be subject to the provisions of Chapter XXIII, as if it were an inquiry.’ [2024] 8 S.C.R. 327 Sri Sujies Benefit Funds Limited v. M. Jaganathuan to as the “Code”), for letting in additional evidence. The Appellate Court allowed the petition filed under Section 391 of the Code. This was challenged by the complainant before the High Court, which negatived such challenge and confirmed the passed by the Appellate Court to let in additional evidence. Before the Appellate Court, the accused examined himself as DW1 and marked thirteen exhibits in to show that substantial amounts were repaid by him to the complainant. 7. The Appellate Court, by dated 20.06.2012, allowed the accused’s appeal and acquitted the respondent holding that the cheque was not issued towards a legally enforceable liability. The appellant filed Criminal Appeal No.582/2012 in the High Court impugning the passed by the Appellate Court. The High Court dismissed such appeal vide the impugned . SUBMISSIONS BY THE APPELLANT-COMPANY: 8. Learned counsel for the appellant submitted that the basic folly committed by the Appellate Court as well as the High Court was that they failed to appreciate that once issuance of cheque is admitted/ established, there is a presumption under Sections 138, 139 and 118(a) of the N.I. Act, which is a rebuttable presumption but the respondent has not discharged this burden. It is contended that the burden on the respondent to rebut the presumption by introducing evidence was initially not done for no justifiable/valid reason before the learned Trial Court and, even upon the plea for adducing additional evidence under Section 391 of the Code, the presumption has not been dislodged as required under law, and still the accused has been acquitted. 9. Learned counsel submitted that the Appellate Court has given benefit of doubt to the respondent by raising question about the figure in the cheque not fully tallying as per the Statement of Accounts inasmuch as in Exhibit D4 for Loan No.175, the total amount borrowed was shown as Rs.6,00,000/- (Rupees Six Lakhs) and the rate of interest is mentioned as Rs.1.80 paise per Rs.100 per month, whereas in the Statement of Accounts, the balance amount is calculated at the rate of 3% per month.