The persons who were prejudiced by the of the Tribunal naturally filed Review Petitions before the Tribunal. Appellant No. 2 is one amongst them. The Review Petition was taken up and dismissed by the Tribunal on 26.11.2021. 4. The National Green Tribunal’s recurrent engagement in unilateral decision making, provisioning ex post facto review hearing and routinely dismissing it has regrettably become a prevailing norm. In its zealous quest for justice, the Tribunal must tread carefully to avoid the oversight of propriety. The practice of ex parte s and the imposition of damages amounting to crores of rupees, have proven to be a counterproductive force in the broader mission of environmental safeguarding. 5. Significantly, these s have consistently faced stays from this Court, resulting in the unraveling of the commendable efforts put forth by the learned Members, lawyers, and other stakeholders2. It is imperative for the Tribunal to infuse a renewed sense of procedural integrity, ensuring that its actions resonate with a harmonious balance between justice and due process. Only then can it reclaim its standing as a beacon of environmental protection, where well-intentioned endeavors are not simply washed away. 6. It appears that the appellants did not have a full opportunity to contest the matter and place all their defenses before the Tribunal. They filed this appeal and by dated 04.03.2022, this Court stayed the and passed by the Tribunal. This was inevitable. 2 Singrauli Super Thermal Power Station v. Ashwani Kumar Dubey & Ors., [2023] 10 SCR 440 : (2023)8 SCC 35. This Court has already noticed the practice of the Tribunal in not providing an opportunity of hearing to the affected party and consequently set aside its s and remanded the matter to the Tribunal for reconsideration after following principles of natural justice. [2024] 1 S.C.R. 1189 Veena Gupta & Anr. v. Central Pollution Control Board & Ors. Two years have passed by and the stay is still operating. We have no other alternative except to set aside the s dated 31.08.2021 and 26.11.2021 and remand the matter back to the Tribunal. The Tribunal issue notices to all the necessary parties, hear them in detail, and pass appropriate s. Needless to say that the Tribunal shall hear the case, uninfluenced by the observations and conclusions drawn in the s dated 31.08.2021 and 26.11.2021. 7. We make it clear that this does not deal with the merits of the matter and the actions of those guilty of statutory and environmental violation will have to be subject to strict scrutiny and legal consequences. 8. The Civil Appeals are allowed with these directions. 9. Pending applications, if any, shall stand disposed of. Headnotes prepared by: Bibhuti Bhushan Bose Result of the case: Appeals allowed with directions.