The franchisees/distributors have to comply with statutory, regulatory and municipal permissions while conducting the business. The franchisees/distributors have agreed to indemnify and keep indemnified the assessee against any and all costs, expenses and charges imposed on the assessee because of any action by a statutory, regulatory or municipal authority due to non-compliance by the franchisee/ distributor. The franchisee/ distributor has to maintain a suitable establishment for the conduct of business and performance of obligations. While doing so, the franchisee/distributor shall conform and adhere to the policies communicated to it from time to time by the assessee. The franchisee/distributor shall employ adequate employees for performing its obligations, and all contractual and statutory payments, including wages, are to be paid by the franchisee/distributor. The assessee can, if it so desires, call upon the franchisee/distributor to make alterations, modifications in furniture, air conditioning equipment etc., as required and necessary and mutually agreed. Costs of such alternations and distributions are to be borne by the franchisee/ distributor. 23. The franchisee/distributor has to maintain proper and sufficient quantities of prepaid start-up packs and recharge coupons to meet the market requirements. The franchisee/distributor shall follow the guidelines and directions issued by the assessee from time to time. At no point of time, the right, title, or interest in the prepaid cards shall pass on to the franchisee/distributor. All rights, title ownership and property rights in the cards shall rest with the assessee. The franchisee/distributor shall be solely responsible and liable for safety and storage of prepaid start-up kits, recharge cards and other material. The assessee will not be liable for any loss, pilferage or damage to the pre-paid coupons/starter-kits. The franchisee/ distributor is to indemnify the assessee for any loss caused on this account. The franchisee/distributor is to insure the prepaid start-up kits/ recharge coupons. The liability for any loss [2024] 2 S.C.R. 1029 Bharti Cellular Limited (Now Bharti Airtel Limited) v. Assistant Commissioner of Income Tax, Circle 57, Kolkata and Another or damage due to fire, burglary, theft etc. is that of the franchisee/ distributor. 24. On termination of the agreement, the franchisee/distributor shall continue its operation till the effective date of termination mentioned in the notice. Upon termination, the franchisee/distributor is required to return all advertising and promotional material, etc. to the assessee by the effective date of termination. Further, the assessee is not liable to the franchisee/distributor or any other party for any loss of profits or compensation or prospective profits or on account of any expenditure, etc. in the event of termination. 25. The assessee is to review the minimum subscriptions/targets for prepaid services taking into account market development and potential and other relevant factors. The franchisee/distributor is to employ a fully trained service staff, who have undergone training in accordance to the standards set out by the assessee. The franchisee/distributor will be responsible to collect all necessary agreement/contract forms and other related forms, after obtaining signatures of the customers on the said forms. These forms, duly completed in all respects and signed by the customers, will be forwarded to the assessee for its verification and record.