This means that a member or person must have exercised their right to speak or abstained from speaking inside the House or committee when the occasion arose. Similarly, a person or member must have exercised their option of voting in favour, against, or in abstention to claim immunity under Articles 105(2) and 194(2). 103. The words “anything” and “any” when read with their respective operative words mean that a member may claim immunity to say as they feel and vote in a direction that they desire on any matter before the House. These are absolutely outside the scope of interference by the courts. The wide meaning of “anything” and “any” read with their companion words connotes actions of speech or voting inside the House or committee which are absolute. The phrase “in respect of” applies to the collective phrase “anything said or any vote given.” The words “in respect of” means arising out of or bearing a clear relation to. This may not be overbroad or be interpreted to mean anything which may have even a remote connection with the speech or vote given. We, therefore, cannot concur with the majority in PV Narasimha Rao (supra). II. The Constitution envisions probity in public life 104. The purpose and object for which the Constitution stipulates powers, privileges and immunity in Parliament must be borne in mind. Privileges are essentially related to the House collectively and necessary for its functioning. Hence, the phrase “in respect of” [2024] 3 S.C.R. 531 Sita Soren v. Union of India must have a meaning consistent with the purpose of privileges and immunities. Articles 105 and 194 of the Constitution seek to create a fearless atmosphere in which debate, deliberations and exchange of ideas can take place within the Houses of Parliament and the state legislatures. For this exercise to be meaningful, members and persons who have a right to speak before the House or any committee must be free from fear or favour induced into them by a third party. Members of the legislature and persons involved in the work of the Committees of the legislature must be able to exercise their free will and conscience to enrich the functions of the House. This is exactly what is taken away when a member is induced to vote in a certain way not because of their belief or position on an issue but because of a bribe taken by the member. Corruption and bribery of members of the legislature erode the foundation of Indian Parliamentary democracy. It is destructive of the aspirational and deliberative ideals of the Constitution and creates a polity which deprives citizens of a responsible, responsive and representative democracy. 105. The minority in PV Narasimha Rao (supra) held that the words “in respect of” must be understood as “arising out of” and that a bribe taken by a member of the House cannot be deemed as arising out of his vote. The minority opined that: “46. […] The expression “in respect of” in Article 105(2) has, therefore, to be construed keeping in view the object of Article 105(2) and the setting in which the expression appears in that provision.