(4) Where a court does not obtain and consider a pre-sentence report before forming an opinion in relation to which the pre-sentence report requirements apply, no custodial sentence or community sentence is invalidated by the fact that it did not do so.” (emphais supplied) 716 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Section 31 of the Sentencing Act, 2020 “31 Meaning of “pre-sentence report” etc “Pre-sentence report” (1) In this Code “pre-sentence report” means a report which— (a) is made or submitted by an appropriate officer with a view to assisting the court in determining the most suitable method of dealing with an offender, and (b) contains information as to such matters, presented in such manner, as may be prescribed by rules made by the Secretary of State.” 40. We find that an exhaustive and detailed exercise has been done by New Zealand. What we have discussed has already been substantially taken into consideration by the aforementioned countries. As it is an important aspect which has escaped the attention of the Government of India, we recommend the Department of Justice, Ministry of Law and Justice, Government of India, to consider introducing a comprehensive policy, possibly by way of getting an appropriate report from a duly constituted Sentencing Commission consisting of experts in different fields for the purpose of having a distinct sentencing policy. We request the Union of India to respond to our suggestion by way of an affidavit within a period of six months from today. 41. In this connection, we would like to place on record the 47th Report of the Law Commission of India, Report by the Committee on Reforms of Criminal Justice, Chaired by Dr. Justice V.S. Malimath, (2003), Report by the Committee on Draft National Policy on Criminal Justice, Chaired by Dr. N.R. Madhava Menon and decisions rendered by this Court to indicate an emerging need for a distinct sentencing policy 47th Report of the Law Commission of India CHAPTER 7 DESIRABILITY OF AMENDMENTS – SUBSTANTIVE POINTS COMMON TO ALL THE ACTS CONSIDERED “7.44. A proper sentence is a composite of many factors, including the nature of the offence, the circumstances- [2024] 5 S.C.R. 717 Sunita Devi v. The State of Bihar & Anr. extenuating or aggravating- of the offence, the prior criminal record, if any, of the offender, the age of the offender, the professional and social record of the offender, the background of the offender with reference to education. home life, sobriety and social adjustment, the emotional and mental condition of the offender, the prospect for the rehabilitation of the offender, the possibility of a return of the offender to normal life in the community, the possibility of treatment or of training of the offender, the possibility that the sentence may serve as a deterrent to crime by this offender, or by others, and the present community need, if any, for such a deterrent in respect to the particular type of offence involved.” Report by the Committee on Reforms of Criminal Justice System, Chaired by Dr. Justice V.S.