11. The departmental appeal(s) against the aforesaid discharge/dismissal also failed whereupon the appellants preferred Original Applications before the Armed Forces Tribunal. The Original Applications were dismissed by the Tribunal and so were the review petitions. 12. The appellants have thus preferred these appeals under Section 31 of the Armed Forces Tribunal Act, 2007 before this Court inter alia contending that the appellants were recruited under the general category and not on priority basis as relatives of any servicemen or ex-servicemen; and they have not produced any relationship certificate and, therefore, they cannot be charged for obtaining enrollment/recruitment on the basis of fake relationship certificates. The authorities as well as the Tribunal have not considered the above explanation of the appellants and only on the basis that the certificates alleged to have been produced by the appellants on verification have been found to be fake/forged, without recording any finding that the appellants had in effect produced any such certificate, upheld the of discharge/dismissal. [2024] 2 S.C.R. 247 No.2809759H Ex-Recruit Babanna Machched v. Union of India and Ors. 13. The defence of the respondents is that the enrollment/recruitment under the Army Headquarters Quota is only for the relatives of the servicemen/ ex-servicemen and that there is no general category in which the appellants could have been recruited. It is also contended that the appellants are taking the above grounds of enrollment/ recruitment under general category and of non-production of relationship certificate as an afterthought as on identical plea the sports persons were directed to be reinstated. 14. After hearing Shri Vinay Navare, learned senior counsel, appearing as a lead lawyer for the appellants and Ms. Aishwarya Bhati, learned Additional Solicitor General, appearing for the respondents, in the facts and circumstances of the case, as narrated above, the following points arise for our consideration: (i) Whether the appellants were enrolled/recruited by giving benefit of relationship with the servicemen/ex-servicemen; (ii) Whether the appellants have produced any relationship certificate(s); (iii) Whether their discharge/dismissal from service is bad in law for non-consideration of their explanation. 15. The respondents have relied upon a newspaper clipping which was neither part of the record before the Tribunal or of these appeals but was passed over to this Court for the purposes of its perusal. The newspaper clipping dated 27.9.2009 as appearing in Deccan Herald as shown to this Court during the course of hearing is not part of the record. The respondents made no efforts to bring it on record at any stage, not even before this Court except for placing it across the Bar for our perusal. In such a scenario, it is not at all appropriate for this Court to consider and rely upon it. Nonetheless, a plain reading of it would reveal that it is not an advertisement inviting applications for enrollment/recruitment under the Unit Headquarters Quota. It is simply a news item published in the newspaper informing that such an exercise for enrollment/recruitment under the Unit Headquarters Quota is going to take place without specifically stating that general category candidates who do not have any relationship with servicemen/ex-servicemen are prohibited or barred from applying.