In TRF Ltd v. Energo Engineering Projects Ltd,10 the purchase issued by the respondent to the appellant contained an arbitration clause that stated that any dispute or difference between the parties in connection with the agreement shall be referred “to sole arbitration of the Managing Director of Buyer or his nominee.” After a dispute arose between the parties about the encashment of the bank guarantee, the Managing Director of the respondent appointed a former judge of this Court as the sole arbitrator in terms of the arbitration clause. The issue before the Bench of three Judges was whether the Managing Director was eligible to nominate a sole arbitrator because of Section 12(5) of the Arbitration Act. The Court distinguished the situation where both the parties appoint their arbitrators from a situation where a person ineligible to be appointed as an arbitrator nominates a sole arbitrator: “53. […] when there are two parties, one may nominate an arbitrator and the other may appoint another. That is 8 Voestalpine (supra) [28]. [“28. […] Keeping in view the spirit of the amended provision and in to instil confidence in the mind of the other party, it is imperative that panel should be broadbased. Apart from serving or retired engineers of government departments and public sector undertakings, engineers of prominence and high repute from private sector should also be included. Likewise panel should comprise of persons with legal background like Judges and lawyers of repute as it is not necessary that all disputes that arise, would be of technical nature. There can be disputes involving purely or substantially legal issues, that too, complicated in nature. Likewise, some disputes may have the dimension of accountancy, etc. Therefore, it would also be appropriate to include persons from this field as well.] 9 Voestalpine (supra) [30] [“30. Time has come to send positive signals to the international business community, in to create healthy arbitration environment and conducive arbitration culture in this country. Further, as highlighted by the Law Commission also in its report, duty becomes more onerous in government contracts, where one of the parties to the dispute is the Government or public sector undertaking itself and the authority to appoint the arbitrator rests with it. In the instant case also, though choice is given by DMRC to the opposite party but it is limited to choose an arbitrator from the panel prepared by DMRC. It, therefore, becomes imperative to have a much broadbased panel, so that there is no misapprehension that principle of impartiality and independence would be discarded at any stage of the proceedings, specially at the stage of constitution of the Arbitral Tribunal. We, therefore, direct that DMRC shall prepare a broadbased panel on the aforesaid lines, within a period of two months from today.”] 10 [2017] 7 SCR 409 [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2197 Central Organisation for Railway Electrification v. M/s ECI SPIC SMO MCML (JV) A Joint Venture Company altogether a different situation. If there is a clause requiring the parties to nominate their respective arbitrator, their authority to nominate cannot be questioned.