The larger the electorate, greater are the challenges associated with the elections. As it is, the ECI has an onerous responsibility to shoulder and there is absolutely no 6 RoP Act [2024] 5 S.C.R. 453 Association For Democratic Reforms v. Election Commission of India And Another margin for error. Periodical challenges to electoral processes, which gain momentum particularly when General Elections are imminent, require the ECI as of necessity to raise robust, valid and effective defence to spurn such challenges failing which any adverse by a court is bound to undermine the authority and prestige of the ECI and bring disrepute to it. 8. The 2024 General Elections, which are proposed to be conducted in 7 (seven) phases and presently underway, will entail an estimated expenditure of around Rs. 10,00,00,00,00,000 (Rupees One lakh crore); more than 10 lakh polling booths are required to be setup to facilitate the voting process. The EVMs are carried to the remotest areas of this country, occasionally on the backs of horses and other animals; voting booths have been set up in far-off villages at the foothills of the Himalayan mountains as well as the delta of the Sundarbans which are only accessible through boats. These challenges are unique to India, and the election process has to be considered in this context. 9. Taking an example, West Bengal is the 13th largest state in terms of area, spread over 88,752 sq. km. The density of population of the state is 1028 persons/sq. km. Even a small state like West Bengal is more densely populated than most European nations. This being the scenario, any comparison of the nature which was sought to be drawn on behalf of the petitioning association with a particular European nation, may not be adequately representative since the demographic and logistical challenges in the conduct of elections in each country are unique to it. Also, it was not demonstrated before the Court that the machines put to use in the electoral system of such nation are similar and what was said by its court applies ex proprio vigore to India. 10. Electronic voting is not something which is prevalent only in India. Multiple countries use electronic voting in varying degrees in their national elections. However, use of EVMs in elections in India are not without its checks and balances. Reasonable measures to ensure transparency, such as tallying VVPAT paper trail in 5 EVMs per assembly constituency or assembly segment in a parliamentary constituency, are already in place after the decision of this Court in N. Chandrababu Naidu v. Union of India7. This measure, as has 7 (2019) 15 SCC 377 454 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports been noticed by Hon’ble Khanna, J., was undertaken out of abundant caution and not as an admission of a flaw in the process. 11. The aforesaid exercise of tallying VVPAT paper trail in 5 EVMs with votes cast by the electors has not, till date, resulted in any mismatch. This assertion of the ECI has not been proved to be incorrect by the petitioners by referring to any credible material or data.