To conclude its findings on the necessity prong, this Court is inter alia required to undertake an overall comparison between the measure and its feasible alternatives. ** 81 Dr. Justice D.Y. Chandrachud was in minority in K.S. Puttaswamy (Aadhaar) (supra), albeit his observations on the objective of the second prong of rational connection are good and in consonance with the law on the subject. 82 We will be referring to certain facets of the proportionality enquiry employed by these countries in our . The test is also employed in various other jurisdictions like Israel, New Zealand, and the European Union. 83 See David Bilchitz at supra note 76. 84 In Anuradha Bhasin (supra), the Court stipulated the following requirement for a conclusion of findings on the necessity prong: “...A must be made whether the government measure is the best of all feasible alternatives, considering both the degree to which it realises the government objective and the [2024] 2 S.C.R. 587 Association for Democratic Reforms & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. 32. We will now delve into the fourth prong, the balancing stage, in some detail. This stage has been a matter of debate amongst jurists and courts. Some jurists believe that balancing is ambiguous and value- based.® This stems from the premise of rule-based legal adjudication, where courts determine entitlements rather than balancing interests. However, proportionality is a standard-based review rather than a rule- based one. Given the diversity of factual scenarios, the balancing stage enables judges to consider various factors by analysing them against the standards proposed by the four prongs of proportionality. This ensures that all aspects of a case are carefully weighed in decision-making. This perspective finds support in the work of jurists who believe that constitutional rights and restrictions/measures are both principles, and thus they should be optimised/balanced to their fullest extent.®° While balancing is integral to the standard of proportionality, such an exercise should be rooted in empirical data and evidence. In most countries that adopt the proportionality test, the State places on record empirical data as evidence supporting the enactment and justification for the encroachment of rights.®” This is essential because the proportionality enquiry necessitates objective evaluation of conflicting values rather than relying on perceptions and biases. Empirical deference is given to the legislature owing to their institutional competence and expertise to determine complex factual legislation and policies. However, factors like lack of parliamentary deliberation and a failure to make relevant enquiries weigh in on the court’s decision. In the absence of data and figures, there is a lack of standards by which proportionality stricto sensu can be degree of impact upon fundamental rights...” 85 See Jochen von Bernstroff, Proportionality Without Balancing: Why Judicial Ad Hoc Balancing is Unnecessary and Potentially Detrimental to Realisation of Collective and Individual Self Determination, Reasoning Rights — Comparative Judicial Engagement, (Ed. Liaora Lazarus); Bernhard Schlink, ‘Abwagung im Verfassungsrecht’, Duncker & Humblot, 1976, and Francisco J. Urbina, ‘Is It Really That Easy? A Critique of Proportionality and Balancing as Reasoning’ Canadian Journal of Law and Jurisprudence, 2014.