(x) From the statements of bank accounts of the four companies and various other Kolkata based shell companies controlled by Kolkata based entry operators revealed that the amount totalling to Rs. 4,60,83,500/- was received in M/s. Akinchan Developers Pvt. Ltd., M/s. Mangalayatan Projects Pvt. Ltd. and M/s. Paryas Infosolution Pvt. Ltd. from Kolkata based shell companies during the period 01.04.2015 to 31.03.2016 (during the check period) despite no business activities were carried out by the said companies and the shares were purchased at a very high premium. (xi) The investigation revealed that the cash acquired by Satyendar Jain was given to the Kolkata entry operators for the purpose of accommodation entries contemporaneously during the check [2024] 3 S.C.R. 795 Satyendar Kumar Jain v. Directorate of Enforcement period as and when they were acquired and thereafter the same were concealed and projected as untainted and sought to be laundered in the form of share application money. The said amount was also used for repayment of loan and purchase of agricultural lands by the said companies. (xii) Though the CBI in their chargesheet dated 03.12.2018 filed in FIR No. RC-AC-I-2017-A 0005 (dated 24.08.2017) had quantified the proceeds of crime to be Rs.1,47,60,497.67, in view of the investigation conducted under PMLA it was established that all the companies were beneficially owned and controlled by Satyendar Jain, and the amount of Rs.4,81,16,435/- received during the check period was the proceeds of crime in the hands of Satyendar Jain. The said conclusion along with the facts underlying the same, have also been conveyed to the CBI under Section 66(2) of PMLA vide the letter dated 31.03.2022. (xiii) Though the accommodation entries per se may not be the proceeds of crime in a given case, since in the instant case, it has been specifically alleged that the shares in the three companies during the check period which were held by the bogus share companies, were purchased by the Kolkata based bogus companies as entries in lieu of cash, the source of which cash was the public servant, namely, Saytendar Jain, he was the beneficial owner of the shares which was a vehicle to introduce the unaccounted cash or disproportionate pecuniary resources which squarely fell within the meaning of proceeds of crime as defined under Section 2(1)(u) of the PMLA. 11. During the course of arguments, the Court had sought clarification from the learned ASG Mr. Raju with regard to the role of the appellants- Ankush Jain and Vaibhav Jain, as also the quantum of proceeds of crime with which they were allegedly involved, specifically in respect of the figures mentioned in the Prosecution Complaint against them. Pursuant to the same, the Deputy Director, Directorate of Enforcement has filed his affidavit clarifying the role of the appellants – Ankush Jain and Vaibhav Jain and further stating inter alia that the figure of Rs.1,53,61,166/- was inadvertently mentioned at page no.-248, as it was the amount attributed by the CBI in its Chargesheet to Satyendar Jain, Ankush Jain and Vaibhav Jain individually for the purpose of receiving total accommodation entries in lieu of cash of 796 [2024] 3 S.C.R.