Further, nothing in the rules restricts Hooters from punishing arbitrators who rule against the company by removing them from the list. Given the unrestricted control that one party (Hooters) has over the panel, the selection of an impartial decisionmaker would be a surprising result.” 50. Similarly, in Murray v. United Food and Commercial Workers Union,102 the District Court of Maryland held the arbitration agreement to be unconscionable because the arbitrator was selected from a list of potential arbitrators curated by one of the parties to the dispute. In doing so, the court observed that, “Although an arbitration agreement will not be invalidated for failure to “replicate the judicial forum”, we again refuse to enforce an agreement so utterly lacking in the rudiments of even-handedness.” This line of reasoning continues in McMullen v. Meijer, Inc.103 where the agreement granted one party unilateral control over the pool of potential arbitrators. There, the court noted that, “when the process used to select the arbitrator is fundamentally unfair, as in this case, the arbitral forum is not an effective substitute for a judicial forum, and there is no need to present separate evidence of bias or corruption.” 51. The importance of composition of a just and proper arbitral tribunal was also highlighted by the Supreme Court of West Virginia in Board of Education of Berkley County v. W. Harley Miller, Inc.104 There, the disputes were to be settled pursuant to a standard arbitration provision contained in the construction contract with the Board which provided that disputes shall be decided by arbitration in accordance with the Construction Industry Arbitration Rules of the American Arbitration Association. While the clause did not give one party unilateral control over the pool of arbitrators, the Court nonetheless discussed the issue of unilaterality in matters of appointment and reasoned that: 102 289 F.3d 297 (4th Cir.2002). 103 355 F.3d 485 (6th Cir. 2004). 104 Board of Ed. v. W. Harley Miller, Inc., 160 W. Va. 473, 236 S.E.2d 439 (W. Va. 1977). [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2323 Central Organisation for Railway Electrification v. M/s ECI SPIC SMO MCML (JV) A Joint Venture Company “A functional analysis of the West Virginia cases which do not favor arbitration demonstrates that this Court would not countenance an arbitration provision by which the parties agree that all disputes will be arbitrated by a panel chosen exclusively by one of the parties. This is the classic rabbits and foxes situation, with the foxes stacking the arbitration panel in their favor. Such a contract provision is inherently inequitable and unconscionable because in a way it nullifies all the other provisions of the contract.” (emphasis supplied) 52. In a case decided by the England and Wales Court of Appeal in Sumukan Ltd. v. Commonwealth Secretariat,105 the award passed by the arbitrator was set aside on the ground that one of the parties to the dispute was not consulted in the appointment of arbitrator. It was observed: “Furthermore if the arbitrators were to be selected from a Panel, and if there was a procedure for the appointment of the Panel aimed at guarding against any apparent lack of independence, it seems to me right that a substantial failure to comply with that procedure should have an effect on the jurisdiction of the tribunal itself.” 53.