Accountability and integrity of decision-makers and institutions; iv. Clear and coordinated mandates and roles, across and within institutions; v. Accessible, fair, impartial, timely and responsive dispute resolution mechanisms; vi. Recognition of the mutually reinforcing relationship between rights and environmental rule of law; and vii. Specific criteria for the interpretation of environmental law. 31 Hanuman Laxman Aroskar v. Union of India, [2019] 5 SCR 916 : (2019) 15 SCC 401, para 156. 32 Himachal Pradesh Bus-Stand Management & Development Authority v. Central Empowered Commit- tee, (2021) 4 SCC 309, para 48. 1210 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Rule of law in environmental governance seeks to redress this issue as the implementation gap has a direct bearing on the protection of the environment, forests, wildlife, sustainable development, and public health, eventually affecting fundamental human rights to a clean environment that are intrinsically tied to right to life.33 Accountability of the authorities impressed with the duty to enforce and implement environmental and other ecological laws is an important feature of judicial governance. In the context of accountability, this Court in Vijay Rajmohan v. CBI34 has held: “34. Accountability in itself is an essential principle of administrative law. Judicial review of administrative action will be effective and meaningful by ensuring accountability of the officer or authority in charge. 35. The principle of accountability is considered as a cornerstone of the human rights framework. It is a crucial feature that must govern the relationship between “duty bearers” in authority and “right holders” affected by their actions. Accountability of institutions is also one of the development goals adopted by the United Nations in 2015 and is also recognised as one of the six principles of the Citizens Charter Movement. 36. Accountability has three essential constituent dimensions : (i) responsibility, (ii) answerability, and (iii) enforceability. Responsibility requires the identification of duties and performance obligations of individuals in authority and with authorities. Answerability requires reasoned decision-making so that those affected by their decisions, including the public, are aware of the same. Enforceability requires appropriate corrective and remedial action against lack of responsibility and accountability to be taken. Accountability has a corrective function, making it possible to address individual or collective grievances. It enables action against officials or institutions for dereliction of duty. It also has a preventive function that helps to identify the procedure or policy which has become non- functional and to improve upon it.” 33 Hanuman Laxman Aroskar (supra), paras 143-144. 34 (2023) 1 SCC 329. [2024] 1 S.C.R. 1211 In Re: T. N. Godavarman Thirumulpad v. Union of India and Ors. 25. In India, environmental rule of law must draw attention to the existing legal regime, rules, processes, and norms that environmental regulatory institutions follow to achieve the goal of effective and good governance and implementation of environmental laws. More importantly, the focus must be on the policy and regulatory and implementation agencies. In doing so, environmental rule of law fosters open, accountable, and transparent decision-making and participatory governance. The renewed role of constitutional courts will be to undertake judicial review to ensure that institutions and regulatory bodies comply with the principles of environmental rule of law.