The slum dwellers cannot be expected to occupy a transit accommodation endlessly, without proper maintenance, and hygiene. An independent and impartial implementation, supervision and monitoring of the projects is the purpose for which the authority has been set up under the Act. 12. In New Janta SRA CHS Ltd. v. State of Maharashtra,8 the High Court considered the dispute between two rival societies claiming rights over a slum scheme. The Court observed as under:- “187. It thus cannot be accepted more particularly considering the provisions of Section 13(2) of the Slums Act that a slum society at its sole discretion and/or without any control and regulations by SRA can change the developer. If such a course of action is made permissible, considering the hard realities and the hundreds of developers being available to take over such schemes, it would create a chaos and it is likely that a situation is created, that the slum rehabilitation scheme never takes off and it is entangled into fights between two factions within the society and/or two rival developers. This is certainly not the object of the legislation. It would be too farfetched to read such draconian rights available to the Managing Committee or to general 7 2008(1) Bom.C.R.1. 8 2019 SCC Online Bom 3896. 1456 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports body of a society without any regulation, supervision and control of the SRA to change the developer. The SRA has all the powers not only to regulate and control such situations but to take a decision as to what is in the best interest of the slum dwellers and intended to achieve the object of the legislation. 188. Secondly it is not in dispute that the application of the petitioner for change of respondent no.5-developer was under Section 13(2) of the Slums Act. Having noted this provision in the foregoing paragraphs, Section 13(2) of the Slums Act would come into play only when the developer fails to adhere to the provisions of the development permissions granted by the SRA and a change of developer can be sought only when there is an inordinate delay or the construction carried on, is contrary to the sanctioned plans and/or the permissions. Considering this clear position falling under Section 13(2), in the context of this factual controversy as raised by the petitioner in regard to the consent of 70% of the slum dwellers being not available to respondent no.5, 1 am of the clear opinion that the view taken by both the authorities, in not accepting the petitioner’s contention, is required to be held to be correct and valid. “ III. Accountability of officers exercising power coupled with duty under Section 13: 13. Two facets of Section 13 (2) of the Act are that; a) the SRA has the power to redevelop the project if it is satisfied that the development is not proceeding within the time specified, and b) that power of SRA is coupled with a duty to ensure that the project is completed within time.