Secondly, it incentivises the immigrants belonging to the 1966-71 stream to continue to remain on the electoral rolls for an indefinite period and only get themselves registered under Section 6A once detected by a competent tribunal. Hence, the manner in which the provision is worded, counter-serves the very purpose of its enactment, which is the speedy and effective identification of foreigners of the 1966-71 stream, their deletion from the electoral rolls, registration with the registering authority and conferring of regular citizenship. As submitted on behalf of the petitioners, the open-ended nature of Section 6A(3) also subserves the legislative intent behind the enactment of the IEAA, 1950 and the spirit of the Assam Accord. 141. Section 6A(3) of the Citizenship Act was never meant to maintain the status quo regarding the immigrants of the 1966-71 stream. It was enacted with the object of achieving en-masse deletion of this category of immigrants from the electoral rolls subsequent to which de-jure citizenship was to be conferred on them after a cooling-off period of ten years. 142. In the absence of any statutory mandate to do so within a time limit, and there being no temporal limit to the applicability of Section 6A(3), it follows that any immigrant of the 1966-71 stream, whose name figures in the electoral rolls, would not voluntarily want to get detected as a foreigner, as upon detection, such immigrant becomes liable to having his or her name struck off from the electoral rolls, and is also required to register with the registering authority within a specified time [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1201 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 period, failing which he or she would become liable to deportation. Even otherwise, no person belonging to the aforesaid category would, out of their own volition, get detected as a foreigner due to the inherent subjectivity that is involved in the process of scrutiny and determination of the various conditions as stipulated under Section 6A(3), i.e., date of entry into Assam, ordinarily resident, etc. However, the same degree of reluctance would not have been present on part of the immigrants of the said category if the procedure of conferment of citizenship under Section 6A(3) was instead a one-time exercise which was to be mandatorily undertaken in a time-bound manner by anyone who wished to avail the benefit of citizenship under the said provision, and any failure to abide by such time-bound procedure would have resulted into the abatement of their claim to citizenship. Seen thus, the working mechanism of Section 6A(3) goes against its avowed objective. ii. Whether placing temporal limitations on the period of applicability is an objective implicit in the scheme of Section 6A? 143. Upon perusal of the statutory scheme under the Citizenship Act, the Foreigners Act, 1946 and other related provisions, it could be seen that the mechanism prescribed for giving effect to Section 6A is imbued with the idea of temporal limitations and in the absence of temporal limits on the period during which Section 6A is made applicable, the provision counter-serves the object it was enacted with.