5 SCR 12 : (1998) 5 SCC 749 1230 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of the magistrate summoning the accused must reflect that he has applied his mind to the facts of the case and the law applicable thereto. He has to examine the nature of allegations made in the complaint and the evidence both oral and documentary in support thereof and would that be sufficient for the complainant to succeed in bringing charge home to the accused. It is not that the Magistrate is a silent spectator at the time of recording of preliminary evidence before summoning of the accused. Magistrate has to carefully scrutinize the evidence brought on record and may even himself put questions to the complainant and his witnesses to elicit answers to find out the truthfulness of the allegations or otherwise and then examine if any offence is prima facie committed by all or any of the accused.” 10. In the contextual situation, it is also relevant to refer to the decision of this Court in D.N. Bhattacharjee & Ors v. State of West Bengal & Anr.4, wherein this Court observed that while conducting an inquiry, the Magistrate could go into the merits of the evidence collected by the investigating agency to determine whether there are sufficient grounds for proceeding. It is relevant to note, in this context, that the sine qua non for exercise of the power under Section 204, Cr.PC, to issue process is the subjective satisfaction regarding the existence of sufficient ground for proceeding. 11. Paragraph 7 in D.N. Bhattacharjee’s case (supra), in so far as it is relevant, reads thus: - “7…… It is true that the Magistrate is not debarred, at this stage, from going into the merits of the evidence produced by the complainant. But, the object of such consideration of the merits of the case, at this stage, could only be to determine whether there are sufficient grounds for proceeding further or not”. 12. In Mehmood Ul Rehman & Ors. v. Khazir Mohammad Tunda and Ors.5 this Court held thus: - 4 [1972] 3 SCR 973 : (1972) 3 SCC 414 5 [2015] 4 SCR 841 : (2015) 12 SCC 420 [2024] 2 S.C.R. 1231 Vikas Chandra v. State of Uttar Pradesh & Anr. “22…..The satisfaction on the ground for proceeding would mean that the facts alleged in the complaint would constitute an offence, and when considered along with the statements recorded, would, prima facie, make the accused answerable before the court……….In other words, the Magistrate is not to act as a post office in taking cognizance of each and every complaint filed before him and issue process as a matter of course. There must be sufficient indication in the passed by the Magistrate that he is satisfied that the allegations in the complaint constitute an offence and when considered along with the statements recorded and the result of inquiry or report of investigation under Section 202 of CrPC, if any, the accused is answerable before the criminal court, there is ground for proceeding against the accused under Section 204 of CrPC, by issuing process for appearance.