[2024] 11 S.C.R. 989 Rajive Raturi v. Union of India & Ors. 36. The second prong is about transforming infrastructure - rethinking and redesigning physical spaces to accommodate PWDs. This transformation involves reimagining public spaces, transportation, educational institutions, and other facilities to ensure that accessibility is embedded from the very beginning, rather than retrofitted later. When introducing any new service, product, or feature - whether physical or functional - accessibility must be considered at the inception stage. It is far more efficient to integrate accessibility from the start than to make adjustments later. By embedding universal design principles into the core of our systems, processes, and infrastructure, we can ensure that they are usable by all, making inclusivity a foundational element rather than an afterthought. iii. Reasonable Accommodation and Accessibility 37. At this stage, it is also crucial to understand the relationship between reasonable accommodation and accessibility, as both are essential for achieving equality for PWDs. While accessibility generally refers to the removal of barriers in the environment or infrastructure to ensure equal access for all, reasonable accommodation is more individualised.39 It involves making specific adjustments to meet the unique needs of a person with a disability. In other words, accessibility ensures that environments are designed to be inclusive from the outset, while reasonable accommodation ensures that individuals who face specific challenges can enjoy their rights on an equal basis in particular contexts. 38. As highlighted by the Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in General Comment 6, reasonable accommodation is integral to the principle of inclusive equality, acting as a facilitator for substantive equality.40 The General Comment articulated the relationship between reasonable accommodation and accessibility as follows: “22. Accessibility is related to groups, whereas reasonable accommodation is related to individuals. This means that 39 Anna Lawson, ‘Reasonable Accommodation in the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and Non-Discrimination in Employment: Rising to the Challenges?’, in Disability Law and Policy: An Analysis of the UN Convention, ed. Charles O’Mahony and Gerard Quinn (Dublin: Clarus Press, 2017), 366. 40 General Comment on Accessibility, CRPD/C/GC/2, para. 25. 990 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the duty to provide accessibility is an ex ante duty. States parties therefore have the duty to provide accessibility before receiving an individual request to enter or use a place or service. States parties need to set accessibility standards, which must be negotiated with organizations of persons with disabilities, and they need to be specified for service-providers, builders and other relevant stakeholders. Accessibility standards must be broad and standardized. In the case of individuals who have rare impairments that were not taken into account when the accessibility standards were developed or do not use the modes, methods or means offered to achieve accessibility (not reading Braille print, for example), even the application of disability standards may not be sufficient to ensure them access. In such cases, reasonable accommodation may apply. 23 The duty to provide reasonable accommodation is an ex nunc duty, which means that it is enforceable from the moment an individual with an impairment needs it in a given situation (workplace, school, etc.)