That being so, there could possibly be no other way to secure the Appellant’s physical presence for the purpose of further investigation, except to seek prior permission of the Trial Court for his interrogation. 21. In fact, given what was contended by the Appellant, it must be explicated that Section 41A does not envisage or mandate the issuance of a notice to an individual already in judicial custody. As such a person is already under the court’s authority, any request to include them in an investigation in another case must be approved by the competent court. The CBI has thus followed the procedure which is contemplated in terms of the intent and purpose of Section 41A CrPC. [2024] 9 S.C.R. 699 Arvind Kejriwal v. Central Bureau of Investigation 22. Contrarily, if the Appellant’s contention is taken to its logical conclusion, it could lead to detrimental consequences. For instance, serving a notice upon an undertrial in jail through the Jail Superintendent, without informing the court that placed them in judicial custody, would effectively enable the police to arrest such individuals in a new case without the court’s knowledge. This could result in a misuse of police authority and a violation of the Constitutional and procedural rights afforded to undertrials. Alternatively, when the court’s permission is sought, it ensures the application of judicial scrutiny to assess whether custodial interrogation is necessary and, if so, for what duration. 23. In the case in hand, the Trial Court’s approval of the CBI’s application to interrogate the Appellant should be viewed as satisfying the essential requirements of Section 41A, as the issuance of a formal notice through the jail authorities would have had an adverse impact on the rights of the Appellant. Thus, it is our considered view that the CBI complied with the procedure encompassed within the framework of Section 41A of the CrPC. 24. That being said, let us now address the specific contention pertaining to the alleged violation of Section 41A(3) of the CrPC. The provision elucidates, at the risk of reiteration, that an individual who complies with the notice issued under Section 41A should not be arrested, unless the police officer for reasons recorded, opines that arrest is necessary. The vital takeaway from this provision is that while compliance with the notice generally shields an individual from arrest, the police may still proceed with the arrest if they conclude that it is essential and provide duly recorded reasons for doing so. 25. In the present case, following the interrogation, the CBI moved another application to the Trial Court on 25.06.2024, seeking permission to arrest the Appellant. The CBI justified the arrest on the grounds that the Appellant had allegedly given evasive responses during questioning and that custodial interrogation was necessary to confront him with evidence and uncover a purported larger conspiracy involving the accused persons in the implementation of the excise policy. The Trial Court, after considering these reasons, allowed the CBI’s application for the Appellant’s arrest and issued production warrants on the same day.