the year when the car in question was purchased by the respondents, though it was specifically directed by the Commission to produce the same by passing the on 24.08.2017. Though subsequently, the complainant had produced on record one owner’s manual, the same did not appear to be of the relevant year by the Commission. The appellants-opponents had produced on record certain photographs as also the reports of technical experts of the appellants. 33. The National Commission after considering the material on record disposed of the complaint of the respondents - complainants directing the appellants to pay a sum of Rs. 5 lakhs to the complainant no. 1 for the deficiency in the services rendered to it on account of the airbags of the car having not deployed/ triggered and further directed the appellants to pay a sum of Rs. 5 lakhs as compensation to the complainant no. 1 for the unfair trade practice indulged into by them, and a sum of Rs.25,000/- as cost of litigation. 34. The National Commission after elaborately considering the Owner’s Manual produced by the complainants, as the appellants - opponents had failed to produce the owner’s manual of the relevant year 2002 when the car was purchased by the complainants and the other material on record, observed in Para no. 9 and 10 of the impugned dated 11th September, 2017 as under: - “9. It is evident from a perusal of the above referred extract from the Manual that the side airbags are triggered only on the side on which an impact occurs in an accident and that the said airbags are independent of the front airbags. Since, admittedly, there was no impact on the side of the car in which complainant no.2 was sitting at the time of the accident, the side airbag would obviously not have triggered. Even otherwise the airbags on the side will not 440 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports trigger in the event of frontal accident unless the airbags system is such as to trigger every airbag irrespective of the side on which the impact occurs in an accident. Similarly, window bags which are independent of the front airbags also trigger on the side on which the impact occurs. Therefore, the window airbags would not have triggered in this case since there was no impact on the sides on which the window bags were provided in the vehicle. 10. As far as the front airbags are concerned, it is stated in the Manual that they are triggered if (i) a front-end impact occurs (ii) if collision happens at a force exceeding a ‘predetermined level.’ The Manual however, does not disclose as to what the said predetermined level was. If the front airbags were not to deploy in every accident resulting in front end impact, the opposite parties, in my view, ought to have disclosed to the buyers as to what the predetermined level necessary to trigger the front passenger airbag were. In the absence of such a disclosure in the Owner’s Manual, as far as the functioning of the front passenger airbags are concerned would be deficient, on account of its not providing the requisite information to the buyer.