It is therefore submitted that (i) the manner of service specified in the relevant municipal law must be strictly followed; (ii) if the relevant statute is silent on the issue of service of notice, then it must be sent through registered post, and if such post is returned unserved/refused, then it must be affixed on some conspicuous part of the building/ property against which the action is proposed; and (iii) in all cases, where practicable, the relevant municipal authority must also upload such proposed action on its portal. 5. Procedure to be followed after service of notice: It is submitted that most municipal laws have a specific procedure to be followed after service of notice – such as an opportunity for hearing, before a final demolition is passed. Further, the affected party in most cases also has a right to appeal to the Appellant Authority designated by the statute. It is submitted that the procedure for hearing and appeal as provided in the relevant statute must be strictly adhered to. Where there is no such procedure prescribed (and the case does not fall within the exceptions outlined in paras 2 and 3 above where demolition without notice is authorised), natural justice requirements of a hearing must be read into the statute – with the notice fixing a reasonable time of a week to appear before the concerned authority for the personal hearing. 750 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 6. Final of demolition: The final of demolition should be passed after hearing the noticee (unless the case falls within the exception outlined in paras 2 – 3 above) and must specify clearly the violations on account of which it is being passed. In most municipal laws, the statute itself provides the noticee himself the opportunity to undertake the demolition/rectify the violations prior to demolition being undertaken by the authority. Where the law does not provide such opportunity, reasonable period of 48 hours – 72 hours may be read into the statute to allow the noticee to either rectify/demolish or vacate the property before the Authority undertakes demolition. However, it is submitted that any further period to challenge such action may not be read into the statute if such period is not provided. This is because any writ challenges to demolition action are in any event treated as urgent by the Constitutional Courts, and 72 hours is sufficient time for the aggrieved persons to approach the courts. 7. It is again reiterated that at the first instance, the municipal laws must be strictly followed qua the requirements of notice, service of notice, procedure of hearing, and final of demolition. The suggestions above are merely meant to supplement the municipal law where the same is warranted on account of lacunae in the said laws. Furthermore, it is submitted that such guidelines should not allow for illegal encroachments on public places, waterways etc to continue with impunity when the relevant statute itself does not provide for notice in such cases.” 12. The scope of the present petitions is limited.