ix. Appointment of a Committee of experts by NIOH including representatives from trade unions and Health and Safety NGOs to look into the issue of Health and Safety of workers and make recommendations.” 5.12 The Court noted that these directions would be applicable to silica units as well. There was a direction to the Chief Secretary [2024] 8 S.C.R. 109 Peoples Rights and Social Research Centre (Prasar) & Ors. v. Union of India & Ors. of the respective States to file an affidavit, after convening a meeting of the duty holders regarding the implementation of the various reports, and to file an affidavit as to the action taken in the respective states. The Court made it clear that it was not concerned with any policy framework of the State. The report was on the benefits which have actually been made available to the victims. The Court also directed the Chief Secretary of the States concerned to submit a detailed report as above within a period of two months from today, failing which they will be present before this Court at their own expense on the next date of hearing. The court assigned various specialists across the State of India to constitute an enquiry and report to the court with regard to the medical facilities available to the patients affected by silicosis and whether any compensation was made available to them, etc. The required expenditure was to be borne by the State concerned where the enquiry is being conducted. On the legal framework, the learned senior counsel appearing for the petitioners had brought to the notice that the duty holders were the Director General of Mines Safety (DGMS), Ministry of Labour & Employment, Government of India, and the Director General, Factory Advice Service and Labour Institutes (DG-FASLI), Government of India. The court directed the above duty holders to submit a report on the following aspects: i. “The geographical location and the industries/ mines state-wise where workers at risk of silicosis are to be found. ii. The number of workers working at these sites and the estimates of the number of workers suffering from silicosis/ pneumoconiosis in the country, state-wise, and industry/mine- wise. iii. The details of the number of workers suffering from silicosis/pneumoconiosis, their medical treatment, and compensation paid. iv. Details of the number of workers who died due to silicosis during the last 10 years and the compensation, if any, paid.” 110 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 5.13 Thereafter, the Court also directed the Director General of Mines Safety5 and the Director General, Factory Advice Service and Labour Institutes (DG-FASLI) to carry out a health and safety survey of silicosis-affected workers under section 91A of the Factories Act and section 9A of the Mines Act, by actively involving, apart from government officials, non-government organizations working in silicosis-affected areas, and submit a comprehensive report to the Court as to the facilities available in the field of treatment, actual payment of compensation made available to the victims, and other rehabilitation steps for the affected workers and their family members.