985 Govt. of NCT of Delhi Through Its Secretary, Land and Building Department & Another v. M/s K.L. Rathi Steels Limited and Others produced by him at the time when the decree was passed or made, or the review is asked for on account of some mistake or error apparent on the face of the record. In Rajah Kotagiri Venkata Subbamma Rao v. Rajah Vellanki Venkatrama Rao Lord Davey at p. 205 of the Report said that ‘the section does not authorise the review of a decree which was right when it was made on the ground of the happening of some subsequent event’.” (emphasis supplied) 59. What was laid down in Netaji Cricket Club (supra), upon reading XLVII, CPC, can be better understood in the words of the Hon’ble Judge authoring the . The relevant passages are quoted hereunder: “88. *** Section 114 of the Code empowers a court to review its if the conditions precedent laid down therein are satisfied. The substantive provision of law does not prescribe any limitation on the power of the court except those which are expressly provided in Section 114 of the Code in terms whereof it is empowered to make such as it thinks fit. 89. 47 Rule 1 of the Code provides for filing an application for review. Such an application for review would be maintainable not only upon discovery of a new and important piece of evidence or when there exists an error apparent on the face of the record but also if the same is necessitated on account of some mistake or for any other sufficient reason. 90. Thus, a mistake on the part of the court which would include a mistake in the nature of the undertaking may also call for a review of the . An application for review would also be maintainable if there exists sufficient reason therefor. What would constitute sufficient reason would depend on the facts and circumstances of the case. The words ‘sufficient reason’ in 47 Rule 1 of the Code are wide enough to include a misconception of fact or law by a court or even an advocate. An application for review may be necessitated by way of invoking the doctrine ‘actus curiae neminem gravabit’.” 986 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports In the next paragraph, Their Lordships quoted a portion of paragraph 32 from the Larger Bench decision in Moran Mar Basselios Catholics (supra) but held that “the said rule is not universal”. 60. Netaji Cricket Club (supra) was followed in Jagmohan Singh v. State of Punjab.38 It was held there that Rule 1 of XLVII, CPC does not preclude the High Court or a court to take into consideration any subsequent event and that if imparting of justice in a given situation is the goal of the judiciary, the court may take into consideration (of course on rare occasions) the subsequent events. 61. This Court, in paragraph 20 of the decision in Kamlesh Verma v. Mayawati,39 after surveying previous authorities and following Chhajju Ram (supra) and Moran Mar Basselios Catholics (supra) summarized the principles of review and illustrated when a review would be and would not be maintainable.