Till her death she did not talk. She died on 06.07.2000 at about 07:30 PM. Police had visited the hospital about two to three times. He stated that on 07.07.2000 he had lodged the complaint which was written by Jayarama, who was present in the hospital till her death. 14.3 He further stated in the cross-examination that the accused was running a chit fund of which he was also a member. His daughter X was of marriageable age. He denied the suggestion put by the defence that he wanted to give his deceased daughter in marriage to the accused but the accused had refused. After the death of his daughter X, he came to know that the accused was a married man. However, he stated that he did not know where accused used to stay after he had left his house. 15. Sister of the deceased Meena is PW-2. In her deposition, she stated that she, her two children and her deceased sister were living together at Paduvarahalli (Vinayakanagar). Her two children were studying in Chinmaya Vidyalaya at Jayalakshmipuram. The two children were studying in 3rd and 5th standard. The deceased used to take 338 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the children to school everyday and also used to bring them back from school. She used to take the children at around 9:00 AM in the morning and also used to bring them back home from the school. 15.1 She acknowledged that she knew the accused. Fifteen days prior to her death, the deceased had told PW-2 that the accused was teasing her and asking her to marry him. When she refused the proposal on the ground that he was a married man, the accused threatened to kill her and her sister. During this period of fifteen days, the deceased did not talk and was in a pensive mood. 15.2 She further stated in her deposition that on the day of the incident i.e. 05.07.2000, she had left for office at 07:45 AM. While leaving for her office, she had asked her sister X to take her children to school. According to her, she had received a phone message from her neighbour that her sister X was not keeping well and asked her to come home immediately. According to her, she reached home at around 12.30 noon. When she reached the house, the neighbours told her that her sister X had consumed poison and, therefore, she was taken to the Nirmala (Karuna) Nursing Home. Along with the neighbours she went to the Mission Hospital. She found her sister X in an unconscious condition. On the next day at about 7:30 PM her sister X died. She stated that as the accused had threatened her sister X that he would kill her if she did not agree to marry him, she had committed suicide. She further stated that her father had also visited the hospital. Prior to fifteen days of her death i.e. before the accused started harassing her sister, the later was happy and healthy.