In the last stage of the analysis, the Court undertakes a balancing exercise to analyse if the cost of the interference with the right is proportional to the extent of fulfilment of the purpose. It is in this step that the Court undertakes an analysis of the comparative importance of the considerations involved in the case, the justifications for the infringement of the rights, and if the effect of infringement of one right is proportional to achieve the goal. Thus, the first two steps laid down by Baroness Hale are subsumed within the balancing prong of the proportionality analysis. 157. Based on the above discussion, the standard which must be followed by Courts to balance the conflict between two fundamental rights is as follows: a. Does the Constitution create a hierarchy between the rights in conflict? If yes, then the right which has been granted a higher status will prevail over the other right involved. If not, the following standard must be employed from the perspective of both the rights where rights A and B are in conflict; b. Whether the measure is a suitable means for furthering right A and right B; c. Whether the measure is least restrictive and equally effective to realise right A and right B; and [2024] 2 S.C.R. 531 Association for Democratic Reforms & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. d. Whether the measure has a disproportionate impact on right A and right B. b) Validity of the Electoral Bond Scheme, Section 11 of the Finance Act and Section 137 of the Finance Act 158. To recall, Section 13A of the IT Act before the amendment mandated that the political party must maintain a record of contributions in excess of rupees twenty thousand. Section 11 of the Finance Act 2017 amended Section 13A creating an exception for contributions made through Electoral Bonds. Upon the amendment, political parties are not required to maintain a record of any contribution received through electoral bonds. Section 29C of the RPA mandated the political party to prepare a report with respect to contributions received in excess of twenty thousand rupees from a person or company in a financial year. Section 137 of the Finance Act amended Section 29C of the RPA by which a political party is now not required to include contributions received by electoral bonds in its report. As explained earlier, the feature of anonymity of the contributor vis-a-vis the public is intrinsic to the Electoral Bond Scheme. Amendments had to be made to Section 13A of the IT Act and Section 29C of the RPA to implement the Electoral Bond Scheme because the EBS mandates anonymity of the contributor. In this Section, we will answer the question of whether the EBS adequately balances the right to informational privacy of the contributor and the right to information of the voter. 159. In PJusuticte tKS aswamy(9 J) (Supra), this Court did not trace the right to privacy only to Article 21. This Court considered privacy as an essential component for the effective fulfillment of the all entrenched rights.