(2000) 2 SCC 646; Mohd. Khalid v. State of W.B. (2002) 7 SCC 334. 13. As we have said cross examination can be deferred in exceptional cases and for reasons to be recorded by the Court, such as under sub-section 2 of Section 231 of CrPC1 but even here the adjournment is not to be given as a matter of right and ultimately it is the discretion of the Court. In State of Kerala v. Rasheed (2019) 13 SCC 297, this Court has set certain guidelines under which such an adjournment can be given. The emphasis again is on the fact that a request for deferral must be premised on sufficient reasons, justifying the deferral of cross-examination of the witness. As we could see from the records in the present case the cross examination of PW-2 was deferred precisely on grounds referred in sub-section (2) of Section 231 of CrPC. The defence requested to examine PW-2 with another prosecution witness (Vinod-PW-17). Yet the records of the case also reveal that though the cross-examination was deferred yet the other witness (PW-17) was examined much later, nearly a year after the cross examination of PW-2. We only wanted to record this cautionary note to make our point that this practice is not a healthy practice and the Courts should be slow in deferring these matters. The mandate of Section 231 of Cr.PC and the law laid down on the subject referred above must be followed in its letter and spirit. Thankfully, in the case at hand, the deferred cross-examination of PW-2 has not affected the course of the trial. This witness has remained consistent. 14. PW-19 is Dr. S.B. Jangpangi, Casualty Medical Officer posted at LBS Hospital Delhi, who had examined PW-2 as she had received bullet injuries on that fateful day. PW-19 in his statement mentions that two injuries were found on Panwati’s (PW-2) body. PW-19 had 1 231. Evidence for prosecution.—(1) On the date so fixed, the Judge shall proceed to take all such evidence as may be produced in support of the prosecution. (2) The Judge may, in his discretion, permit the cross-examination of any witness to be deferred until any other witness or witnesses have been examined or recall any witness for further cross- examination. 172 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports also examined the deceased who was declared dead by him and found his body riddled with bullet injuries. 15. PW-1, Ompal Singh, who was posted as head constable in P.S. Mayur Vihar is another key prosecution witness. He says that he was working as duty officer on 30.06.2002 in place of WHC Panwati (PW2). After PW-2 reported for her duties Constable Vinod (PW-17), DHG Jai Singh and PW-1 were also in the duty officers’ room. He recounts that on the day of the incident he heard sounds of firing at about 11.35 a.m. and saw a person with blood-stained clothes (i.e. the deceased) trying to reach the duty officers’ room. He was being chased by the appellant, who was identified by this witness in court.