Submissions on behalf of the appellants: - 14. Learned counsel representing the appellants, vehemently and fervently contended that the very foundation of the case as presented by respondent No. 1-bank and the other employers, that the Caste Certificates held by the appellants are false/fake, is misplaced. They contended that the Caste Certificates were validly issued by the Competent Authority, affirming/certifying that the appellants belonged to the Scheduled Caste as their caste had been included in the Scheduled Castes list by virtue of the notifications/circulars issued by the Government of Karnataka. They further submitted that the effect of the cancellation of these Caste Certificates pursuant to the in Milind (supra) would only deprive the appellants from claiming any additional/future service benefits including promotion etc. based on their reserved category status. None of the appellants had ever misrepresented themselves before the authorities regarding their caste and the contentious Caste Certificates were issued after following the due process of law, and thus the same cannot be questioned as false or fake Certificates. [2024] 8 S.C.R. 877 K. Nirmala & Ors. v. Canara Bank & Anr. 15. Learned counsel further submitted that following the Government circulars dated 11th March, 2002 and 29th March, 2003 issued by the Government of Karnataka, the Ministry of Finance(Department of Financial Services)(Welfare Section), Government of India had also issued a letter dated 17th August, 2005, to the Chairman and Managing Director, State Bank of Mysore with the following directions: - “2. In para 2 of this Ministry’s letter No.4(4)/2002-SCT(B) dated 30th April, 2003, it has been suggested that where the caste certificate is cancelled by the State Government after consideration of the matter by the Security Committee consisting of 3 members and where the concerned employee was given a chance to present his case before the Committee, no further disciplinary proceedings need be taken and the employee’s services can be terminated forthwith. 3. It has, inter alia, been stated in your letter under reference that based on the Government of Karnataka’s dated 29 March 2003, several employees whose caste certificates are no longer valid, are seeking their appointment to be considered in general category and withdrawal of pending cases against them to permitting them to surrender their original caste certificates to the competent authority for cancellation. 4. In this regard, it is clarified that where the scheduled caste has been de-scheduled/de-notified after appointment in the Bank, the concerned employee may be treated as a general category employee in the post based roster and the disciplinary case, if any pending against him/her may be withdrawn by permitting him/her to surrender the original caste certificate to the competent authority for cancellation.” Placing reliance on the letter dated 17th August, 2005, learned counsel submitted that the above communication clearly provides that when a Scheduled Caste has been de-scheduled or de-notified after an employee(s) appointment in the bank, such employee(s) may be reclassified as General category employee(s) in the post-based roster. Any pending disciplinary cases against the employee(s) should be withdrawn, requiring them to surrender the original Caste Certificate to the Competent Authority for cancellation.