In the Indian Social Action Forum v. Union of India,172 a 2-judge Bench of this Court dealt with a challenge to certain provisions of the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act, 2010 and the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Rules, 2011. While particularly analyzing the words ‘activity, ideology and programme’ in Section 5(1) of the above enactment, this Court affirmed the High 172 Indian Social Action Forum v. Union of India (2021) 15 SCC 60. 1102 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Court’s view that the abovementioned words do not suffer from the vice of vagueness, and would not invite the wrath of Article 14. This Court observed as follows: “16. […] The High Court held that the words "activities of the organisation, the ideology propagated by the organisation and the programme of the organisation” having nexus with the activities of a political nature are expansive but cannot be termed as vague or uncertain. Sufficient guidance is provided by Parliament in Section 5 and it is for the rule- making authority to lay down the specific grounds. We are in agreement with the High Court that Section 5(1) does not suffer from the vice of vagueness inviting the wrath of Article 14. […]” [Emphasis supplied] 248. The vagueness doctrine was further developed in Nisha Priya Bhatia v. Union of India173 which observed that a duly enacted law cannot be struck down merely on the grounds of vagueness, unless such vagueness transcends into arbitrariness. With this background, we shall now examine the test for assessing vagueness and whether Section 6A falls foul of the same. Vagueness in law 249. Vagueness is an inherent feature of language. The same intention can be expressed with a variety of words and expressions, and any given choice of words can relate to multiple different intentions. This problem is particularly exacerbated with vague terms, which often have a wide variety of referents, leading to comparatively greater open-endedness and variability. It is well known that unless the law prescribes a bright-line test, which too has its own set of interpretative problems as discussed before, most standards in law have some degree of open texture, and inevitably harbor some vagueness or multiple meanings. 250. The following example may be considered to understand the import of a word with an open texture. Suppose a statute uses the term ‘tall’ instead of prescribing a particular numerical test for height. Now, 173 Nisha Priya Bhatia v. Union of India (2020) 13 SCC 56. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1103 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 the meaning of this term can vary depending on the context and the purpose of the statute. The standard of tallness might differ for a ride at an amusement park and perhaps in discerning the maximum height of vehicles on motorways. Hence, in that sense, the term is vague and open to wide interpretation. 251. Vagueness in law, however, exists on a spectrum, and different scenarios necessitate different degrees of tolerance towards vagueness. Excessive vagueness in law can make the statute overbroad and might make the exercise of discretion a capricious exercise.