SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER 6. The petitioner submits that the laws of the country with which the subject agreement was most closely connected are India and Afghanistan. The recitals in Sub- Cl. 22.4 (Interpretation Clause) of the Distribution agreement and the conduct of the parties reveal that the parties had attached very little importance to its local subsidiary FZE within the “Micromax Group” of companies that ultimately signed the Distributor agreement. It was formed to take advantage of concessional benefits in a free economic zone. The intention of the parties as to the “seat” should 1158 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports be determined from other clauses in the agreement and the conduct of the parties. 7. A plain conjoint reading of the following 6 clauses in the agreement with a supplementary agreement executed by Micromax Inc. (Non-signatory parent Co.) in the form of two emails forming its integral part (Pages 37 to 54) would negate the contra plea of the respondents as to the jurisdiction of Indian courts. (i) Clause 26 Clause 27 deals with Dispute Resolution; law and jurisdiction. Quote..”Cl. 26. Dispute Resolution In the event of any dispute or difference arising out of the agreement, its validity, applicability, then the same shall be referred to arbitration. The arbitration shall be subject to UAE Arbitration and conciliation rules made there under. The venue of arbitration shall be Dubai, UAE. Cl. 27. Law and jurisdiction This shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of UAE and shall be subject to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the Dubai Courts.” ....Unquote 8. Petitioner submits that Clause 27 preserved the party’s autonomy in allowing the concerned parties to choose their seat/jurisdiction. The second part of jurisdictional Cl. 27 discloses the intention - an agreement by itself- to opt out of Dubai court’s jurisdiction and this is what the parties had intended by their reference to “the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the Dubai Courts. Since the parties had agreed not to confer exclusive jurisdiction to courts in Dubai, neither of the parties to the agreement construed the arbitration clause as designating courts in Dubai as the seat of arbitration. Vide PASL vs GE 2021 SCC online 226. 9. DETERMINATION OF THE SEAT BASED ON THE CLOSEST CONNECTION TEST IF IT IS UNCLEAR THAT THE SEAT HAS BEEN DESIGNATED EITHER BY THE PARTIES. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1159 M/s Arif Azim Co. Ltd. v. M/s Micromax Informatics Fze The petitioner submits that the laws of the country with which the subject agreement was most closely connected is India. However, there is no stipulation whatsoever in the subject agreement about the supervisory power over the arbitration proceedings. In Enercon (India) Limited and others v. Enercon GMBH and another (2014) 5 SCC 1, the arbitration clause provided London as the venue and not the seat. The Court pointed out various factors connecting the dispute to India and the absence of any foreign factors connecting the dispute to England. Supreme Court held that “the location of the Seat will determine the courts that will have exclusive jurisdiction to oversee the arbitration proceedings.