28. Let us now deal with the provisos to section 14. Upon a bare reading of the provision, it becomes crystal clear that not only does the sixth proviso, but none of the nine provisos to section 14, apply to the appellant, a SEZ developer. Even the TSERC and the APTEL are ad idem with this view. The status of a SEZ developer as a deemed licensee emanates from the 2010 Notification, which introduced the proviso to section 14(b), conferring deemed licensee status to SEZ developers. Reading anything beyond this would defeat the very purpose of the proviso and the concept of the deemed licence. The sixth proviso does not pertain to deemed licensees and, therefore, the 2005 Rules are not applicable to the appellant. 29. Upon closer examination of regulation 12, it becomes apparent that its application does not extend to applicants who are otherwise deemed licensees. The interpretation of regulation 12 as requiring [2024] 5 S.C.R. 757 M/s Sundew Properties Limited v. Telangana State Electricity Regulatory Commission & Anr. additional capital infusion for an applicant for acceptance of a deemed licensee status appears to be at odds with the language and intent of the 2013 Regulations itself. TSERC has, in essence, interpreted regulation 12 by reading it up to mean that it also applies to a person who is a deemed licensee, and in doing so, the TSERC has aimed to achieve indirectly what it could not directly. 30. Reading down and reading up are two principles often discussed in legal contexts, particularly in the realm of statutory interpretation. Reading down, which has been firmly ingrained in our jurisprudence, refers to the practice of interpreting a statute narrowly, limiting its scope or application to specific situations or individuals. This approach is commonly employed when the language of a statute is ambiguous or when there is a need to avoid potential conflicts with other laws or constitutional provisions. For example, if a law is unclear about whether it applies to certain types of businesses, a court may choose to read down the statute to only include those businesses explicitly mentioned in the text. On the other hand, reading up involves interpreting a statute broadly, extending its scope or application beyond what is expressly stated in the text. Reading up is a concept that is invoked with great caution within our legal framework because it can lead to judicial activism or judicial overreach, where courts expand the reach of laws beyond what the legislature intended. 31. A Constitution Bench of this Court in B.R. Kapur v. State of Tamil Nadu14, while stating that reading up of a statute is not permissible, held thus: “39. Section 8(4) opens with the words ‘notwithstanding anything in sub-section (1), sub-section (2) or sub-section (3)’, and it applies only to sitting members of Legislatures. There is no challenge to it on the basis that it violates Article 14. If there were, it might be tenable to contend that legislators stand in a class apart from non-legislators, but we need to express no final opinion.