Indeed, while passing the impugned Sharma, J. did record that there was a mistake or an error apparent on the face of the record which was not of such a nature, “which had to be detected by a long-drawn process of reasons” and proceeded to set at naught the of Gupta, J. However, mechanical use of statutorily sanctified phrases cannot detract from the real import of the passed in exercise of the review jurisdiction. Recourse to review petition in the facts and circumstances of the case was not permissible. The aggrieved - debtors could have approached the higher forum through appropriate proceedings to assail the of Gupta, J. and get it set aside but it was not open to them to seek a “review” of the of Gupta, J. on the grounds detailed in the review petition. In this view of the matter, we are of the opinion that the impugned of Sharma, J. cannot be sustained and we accordingly accept this appeal and set aside the impugned dated 6-3-1997.” (emphasis supplied) Meaning of the Words ‘for any other sufficient reason’ in XLVII Rule 1 of the CPC 1908 ● Chhajju Ram v. Neki, 1922 SCC OnLine PC 11 “…It will be observed that the question with which their Lordships have to deal is one concerned not with appeal to a Court of Appeal, but with review by the Court which had already disposed of the case. In England it is only under strictly limited circumstances 106 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports that an application for such a review can be entertained. In India, however, provision has for long past been made by legislation for review in addition to appeal. But as the right is the creation of Indian statue law, it is necessary to see what such statutory law really allows. The law applicable to the present case is laid down by O. 47, R. 1, of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908. This Rule is enacted in the following terms:— “Any person considering himself aggrieved, (a) by a decree or from which an appeal is allowed, but from which no appeal has, been preferred (b) by a decree or from which no appeal is hereby allowed, or (c) by a decision on a reference from a Court of Small Causes, and who, from the discovery of new and important matter or evidence which, after the exercise of due diligence, was not within his knowledge or could not be produced by him at the time when the decree was passed or made, or on account of some mistake or error apparent on the face of the record, or for any other sufficient reason, desires to obtain a review of the decree passed or made against him, may apply for a review of to the Court which passed the decree or made the .” xxx xxx xxx If their Lordships felt themselves at liberty to construe the language of O. 47 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 without reference to its history and to the decisions upon it, their task would not appear to be a difficult one.