(2) For children in conflict with law the process of rehabilitation and social integration shall be undertaken in the observation homes, if the child is not released on bail or in special homes or place of safety or fit facility or with a fit person, if placed there by the of the Board. (3) The children in need of care and protection who are not placed in families for any reason may be placed in an institution registered for such children under this Act or with a fit person or a fit facility, on a temporary or long-term basis, and the process of rehabilitation and social integration shall be undertaken wherever the child is so placed. (4) The Children in need of care and protection who are leaving institutional care or children in conflict with law leaving special homes or place of safety on attaining eighteen years of age, may be provided financial support as specified in section 46, to help them to re-integrate into the mainstream of the society.” (emphasis added) 33. There are various provisions, such as foster care, providing a sponsor to the children, etc. Section 46 is another salutary provision that provides that any child leaving child care on completion of eighteen years of age may be provided with financial support to facilitate re- integration into the mainstream of society in the manner as may be prescribed by law. Section 46 of the JJ Act reads thus: 606 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “46. After care of children leaving child care institution.— Any child leaving a child care institution on completion of eighteen years of age may be provided with financial support in to facilitate child’s re-integration into the mainstream of the society in the manner as may be prescribed.” 33.1 “After care” has been defined in Section 2(5) of the JJ Act. It is a provision for financial or otherwise support to persons in the age group of 18 to 21 years. Rule 25 of the WB Rules has been enacted to give effect to Section 46. Rule 25 reads thus: “25. After Care of Children Leaving Institutional Care.- (1) The State Government shall prepare a programme for children who have to leave Child Care Institutions on attaining eighteen years of age by providing for their education, giving them employable skills and placement as well as providing them places for stay to facilitate their re-integration into the mainstream of society in consultation with concerned committees on After Care. (2) Any child who leaves a Child Care Institution may be provided after care till the age of twenty- one years on the of the Committee or the Board or the Children’s Court, as the case may be, as per Form 37 and in exceptional circumstances, for two more years on completing twenty-one years of age. (3) The District Child Protection Unit shall prepare and maintain a list of organisations, institutions and individuals interested in providing after care as per their area of interest such as education, medical support, nutrition, vocational training etc.