Sir, I am grateful to the Drafting Committee and also to the Chairman of that Committee for making the second portion of it very clear, that in future, after the declaration by the President as to who will be the Scheduled Castes, and when there is need for including any other class or to exclude, anybody or any community from the list of Scheduled Castes that must be by the word of Parliament. I feel grateful to him for bringing in this clause, because I know, as a matter of fact, when Harijans behave independently or asserting their right on some matters, the Ministers in some Provinces not only take note and action against those members, but they bring the community to which that particular individual belongs; and thereby not only the individual, but also the community that comes under that category of Scheduled Castes are harassed. By this provision, I think the danger is removed. 1468 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports I strongly oppose the amendment moved by Pandit Bhargava. The reason is that he wants to have the ten years period for observing these amendments. But he has entirely forgotten that under another article that we have already passed, or will pass the Constitution provides for the appointment of a Special officer at the Centre and also various officers in all the Provinces to go into the various disabilities of these communities and to submit a report to the President who will then be able to know whether the Scheduled Castes have reached a stage when the facilities now given to them could be withdrawn. I do not think that the reasons that he has advanced are fair and square for the uplift of the Harijans. With these few words, I support the amendment.” 46. It can thus be seen that the Learned Member of the Constituent Assembly refers to the background which brought out the special name of Scheduled Castes. He refers to untouchability, the social evil that has been practiced by the Hindu Community for ages. He states that a section of people, though Hindus, were kept at the outskirts of the Hindu society and it was in the year 1916 when the Government found that something had to be done for the untouchable classes. He refers to the efforts made by Mahatma Gandhi. He identified as to who were the actual untouchable classes. He refers to the 1935 Act and the efforts of the Government in thoroughly examining the whole thing and states that as far as the Province of Madras is concerned they brought 86 communities into the list or category. He states that according to the amendment mover’s suggestions, all those communities that come-under the category of untouchables and those who profess Hinduism will be the Scheduled Castes. However, he opined that those people who have left Hinduism and joined other religions should not be entitled to claim the benefits of Scheduled Castes. He states that if the Government wants to grant any concessions to these converts, they should not be clubbed among the Scheduled Castes.