May be, the parties knew of the said circumstance but they have also specified six months as the period within which the transaction should be completed. The said time-limit may not amount to making time the essence of the contract but it must yet have some meaning. Not for nothing could such time-limit would have been prescribed. Can it be stated as a rule of law or rule of prudence that where time is not made the essence of the contract, all stipulations of time provided in the contract have no significance or meaning or that they are as good as non-existent? All this only means that while exercising its discretion, the court should also bear in mind that when the parties prescribe certain time-limit(s) for taking steps by one or the other party, it must have some significance and that the said [2024] 1 S.C.R. 389 Alagammal and Ors. v. Ganesan and Anr. time-limit(s) cannot be ignored altogether on the ground that time has not been made the essence of the contract (relating to immovable properties). xxx 13. In the case before us, it is not mere delay. It is a case of total inaction on the part of the plaintiff for 2 1/2 years in clear violation of the terms of agreement which required him to pay the balance, purchase the stamp papers and then ask for execution of sale deed within six months. Further, the delay is coupled with substantial rise in prices — according to the defendants, three times — between the date of agreement and the date of suit notice. The delay has brought about a situation where it would be inequitable to give the relief of specific performance to the plaintiff.’ (Emphasis supplied) 30. The decisions relied upon by the respondents, relating to the conduct of parties are of no avail to them in the circumstances, as even if the case of later payments by the respondents to the appellants is accepted, the same being at great intervals and there being no willingness shown by them to pay the remaining amount or getting the Sale Deed ascribed on necessary stamp paper and giving notice to the appellants to execute the Sale Deed, it cannot be said that in the present case, judged on the anvil of the conduct of parties, especially the appellants, time would not remain the essence of the contract. 31. For reasons afore-noted, the Impugned of the High Court as also the of the First Appellate Court stand set aside. The / of the Trial Court is revived and restored. 32. The appeal is allowed accordingly. 33. In the facts and circumstances, no as to costs is proposed. Headnotes prepared by: Nidhi Jain Result of the case: Appeal allowed.