Even the assessing officer observed that considering the repeal of Sections 18 to 21, the interest on securities would be charged as per Section 28 as the securities were held in the normal course of his business. The assessing officer observed that the appellant-Bank, in its books of accounts and annual report, offered taxation on the basis of actual interest received and not on a due basis. 24. Therefore, in the facts of the case, as the securities were treated as stock-in-trade, the interest on the broken period cannot be considered as capital expenditure and will have to be treated as revenue expenditure, which can be allowed as a deduction. The impugned is based on the decision in the case of Vijaya Bank Ltd.1 It also refers to the decision of the Bombay High Court in the case of American Express International Banking Corporation2 and holds that the same was not correct. As noted earlier, the view taken in the American Express International Banking Corporation2 case has been expressly upheld by this Court in the case of Citi Bank NA.3 Therefore, the impugned cannot be sustained, and the view taken by the Tribunal will have to be restored. 25. Now, we come to other appeals which are part of this group. In Civil Appeal @Special Leave Petition (C) Nos.1445-1446 of 2021, the assessing officer held that the respondent Bank was liable to pay the broken period of interest as part of the price paid for the securities. Hence, a deduction on the said amount was disallowed. The assessee could not succeed before the CIT (Appeals). Before the Appellate Tribunal, reliance was placed on the decision of this [2024] 10 S.C.R. 891 Bank of Rajasthan Ltd. v. Commissioner of Income Tax Court in the case of Vijaya Bank Ltd.1 The Tribunal observed that the assessing officer had treated the interest income earned by the respondent Bank on securities as income from other sources. The Tribunal observed that the investments in securities are in stock-in-trade, and this fact has been accepted in the past by the Income Tax department. It was held that the securities in the category of HTM were also held as stock-in-trade, and income/loss arising out of such securities, including HTM securities, has been treated as business income/loss. The Appellate Tribunal held that the interest for the broken period would be admissible as a deduction, and the High Court confirmed the same. We may note here that the Tribunal followed the decision of the Bombay High Court in the case of HDFC Bank Ltd. v. CIT.11 We find no error in the view taken in this case. 26. In Civil Appeal @ Special Leave Petition (C) No.4843 of 2020, the High Court held in favour of the respondent-Bank by allowing a deduction for broken period interest relying upon the decision in the case of HDFC Bank Ltd.11 In this case, the assessing officer did not accept the claim of the Bank that the securities held were in the nature of stock-in-trade.