Chinnaiah could have been doubted and referred to the larger Bench by the Bench of three judges, without recording any cogent reasons for their disagreement with the said decision in E.V. Chinnaiah, more particularly when the said decision held the field for a long period of fifteen years? (II) Whether the States should be permitted to tinker with or vary the Presidential List specifying the “Scheduled Castes” as notified under Clause (1) of Article 341, by sub-classifying or sub-dividing or re-grouping the castes conglomerated in the said list, under the guise of providing reservation for the weaker of the weakest, and thereby commit the breach of the mandate contained in Clause (2) of Article 341? (III) Whether the decision in E.V. Chinnaiah is required to be revisited in view of certain observations made by the Nine-Judge Bench in Indra Sawhney Vs. Union of India and Others5 concerning the Other Backward Class? 6. Before embarking on the issues involved, let us go through the trajectory of the Reference made by the Five-Judge Bench in the State of Punjab and Others vs. Davinder Singh and Others6 to this Bench. TRAJECTORY OF THE REFERENCE TO SEVEN JUDGES 7. The State of Andhra Pradesh passed an enactment, namely the Andhra Pradesh Scheduled Castes (Rationalisation of Reservations) Act, 2000 on 02.05.2000 dividing 57 castes enumerated in the Presidential List prepared under Article 341(1) of the Constitution, into 4 groups based on inter-state backwardness, and fixed separate quotas in reservation 4 (2005) 1 SCC 394 5 (1992) Supp. 3 SCC 217 6 [2020] 10 SCR 857 : (2020) 8 SCC 65 [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1585 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. for each of these groups. The validity of the said Act of 2000 came to be challenged in the Writ Petitions filed in the High Court of Andhra Pradesh at Hyderabad. The said Writ Petitions came to be dismissed by a Five-Judge Bench by a majority of 4:1. The High Court having certified the case as being fit for appeal to the Supreme Court, the Appeals were filed before this Court. The same having been referred to the Constitution Bench of Five-Judges. The Constitution Bench after considering the various issues allowed the said Appeals being Civil Appeal No.6758/2000 and Others (E.V. Chinnaiah vs. State of Andhra Pradesh and Others)* declaring the impugned Act as ultra vires the Constitution. The Constitution Bench while considering the said Reference, had framed following three questions: - (i) Whether the impugned Act is violative of Article 341(2) of the Constitution of India? (ii) Whether the impugned enactment is constitutionally invalid for lack of legislative competence? (iii) Whether the impugned enactment creates sub-classification or micro-classification of Scheduled Castes so as to violate Article 14 of the Constitution of India? 8. Justice Santosh Hegde (for himself and Justice S.N. Variava and Justice B.P. Singh), and Justice S.B. Sinha and Justice H.K. Sema concurring but by separate s, allowed the said Appeals by answering the above questions as under: - (i) From the scheme of the Constitution, Article 341 and from the opinions in case of State of Kerala & Anr.