Passing of such an could very well be placed in Section 15 itself after sub-section (2) thereof. 9.12 The inquiry as envisaged in Section 15(1) of the Act enables the Board to take assistance from experienced psychologists or psycho-social workers or other experts. The proviso has nexus with the object sought to be achieved. The Act deals with the CCL. The preliminary assessment as envisaged in Section 15 has large ramifications, namely, as to whether inquiry against the CCL is to be conducted by the Board, where the final punishment, which could be inflicted is lighter or the trial is to be conducted by the Children’s Court treating the CCL as an adult, where the punishment could be stringent. 9.13 As noticed earlier, the preliminary assessment into the heinous offence by the Board in terms of Section 15(1) of the Act has to be concluded within a period of three months in terms of Section 14(3) of the Act. The Act as such does not provide for any 792 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports extension of time and also does not lay down the consequence of non-compilation of inquiry within the time permissible. In the absence thereof the provision prescribing time limit of completion of inquiry cannot be held to be mandatory. The intention of the legislature with reference to serious or heinous offences is also available from the language of Section 14 of the Act which itself provides for further extension of time for completion of inquiry by the Board to be granted by the Chief Judicial Magistrate or Chief Metropolitan Magistrate for the reasons to be recorded in writing. It is in addition to two months’ extension which the Board itself can grant. 9.14 As in the process of preliminary inquiry there is involvement of many persons, namely, the investigating officer, the experts whose opinion is to be obtained, and thereafter the proceedings before the Board, where for different reasons any of the party may be able to delay the proceedings, in our opinion the time so provided in Section 14(3) cannot be held to be mandatory, as no consequences of failure have been provided as is there in case of enquiry into petty offences in terms of Section 14(4) of the Act. If we see the facts of the case in hand, the investigating officer had taken about two months’ time in getting the report from the NIMHANS. 9.15 Where consequences for default for a prescribed period in a Statute are not mentioned, the same cannot be held to be mandatory. For this purpose, reference can be made to the following decisions of this Court. 9.16 This Court in Topline Shoes Ltd vs Corporation Bank17 while interpretating Section 13(2)(a) of the repealed Consumer Protection Act, 1986 prescribing time limit for filing reply to the complaint, held the same to be directory in nature. Relevant para 11 thereof is extracted below: “11. We have already noticed that the provision as contained under clause (a) of sub-section (2) of Section 13 is procedural in nature.