The expenses incurred for this purpose will be repayable by the person responsible for such damage. (3) The State Biotechnology Co-ordination Committee /District Level Committee may take samples for a more detailed examination of organisms and cells. (4) The State Biotechnology Co-ordination Committee/ District Level Committee shall be competent to ask for assistance from any other Government authority to carry out its instructions.” 27.8. Rule 19, as noted above, provides for mechanism of appeal from the decision of GEAC. 27.9. The above extracted rules, as is evident lay down a clear mandate for functioning in respect of approvals that are to be granted by the GEAC. All aspects of immediate relevance are covered thereunder, i.e., the monitoring of safety regulations, preparing on-site emergency plans, research, inspection, release, penalties, use and approval with respect to GMOs/ hazardous microorganisms/cells. The existence of various committees with certain, specified responsibilities, their composition; the providing of procedure for the most essential function which is the grant of approvals; appeals on being dissatisfied therefrom (grant or denial) shows that each body within the Rules has a role to play and the fate of an application is not solely in the hands of one body. In none of these Rules could I find even the slightest hint of manifest arbitrariness. None of the parts of the Rules can be said to be irrational, capricious or without adequate determining principle, on the contrary, as displayed, a clear rationale is discernible. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1903 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. 27.10. In particular, the primary ground of challenge by the Petitioner as noticed above must be addressed. To do so, notice must also be taken of the Union of India’s submission that it is mandatory for all expert/members/Government officials of GEAC and RCGM to sign a declaration of independence, confirming that they have no involvement or financial interest in the development, promotion or commercialisation of GM/ transgenic crops. Members are also required to inform the RCGM and GEAC in case they have a conflict of interest, in such cases, the member involved does not participate in the deliberations. It has to be said that the composition of one of the Committees framed under the Rules allegedly suffering from some infirmity is not sufficient ground in the least, to vitiate the Rules on the whole. At the same time, it is also recognised that the GEAC is the apex body and its constitution therefrom assumes importance. Therefore, if the Petitioners had any qualms about its members, their objections should have been limited only thereto. As a secondary aide, a sweeping submission has been made that the 1989 Rules violates the Precautionary Principle however, how that is so is yet unclear. 27.11. Adverting particularly to the composition of the GEAC, the relevant rule reads as under: “The composition of the Committee shall be i. Chairman-Additional Secretary, Department of Environment, Forests and Wild life Co-Chairman-Representative of Department of Bio-technology ii. Members: Representative of concerned Agencies and Departments, namely, Ministry of Industrial Development, Department of Biotechnology and the Department of Atomic Energy.