v. Union of India & Ors. List III was amended to account for it. In other words, the legislative entry pertaining to “education” was moved from the State List to the Concurrent List. Entry 25, List III now reads as follows: “25. Education, including technical education, medical education and universities, subject to the provisions of entries 63, 64, 65 and 66 of List I; vocational and technical training of labour.” 84. To address the contention raised by the respondents regarding the legislative competence of the state legislature, the following settled principles governing the interpretation of the entries in the Seventh Schedule are relevant110: a. The entries are legislative heads and not sources of legislative powers. The legislative entries use general words to define and delineate the legislative powers of Parliament and State legislatures, and the words should receive their ordinary, natural, and grammatical meaning; b. The legislative entries should not be read in a narrow or pedantic sense but must be given their “broadest meaning and the widest amplitude”. The ambit of the entries extends to all ancillary and subsidiary matters which can fairly and reasonably be said to be comprehended in them; c. There is a possibility of an overlap and conflict between two or more entries. In such cases, the doctrine of pith and substance comes into play to determine whether the legislature in question has the competence to enact a law; d. There may arise situations where a legislature may frame a law that in substance and reality transgresses its legislative competence. Such a piece of legislation is called “colourable legislation”. The substance of the legislation is material. If the subject matter is in substance beyond the legislative powers of the legislature, the form in which the law is clothed would not save it from being declared unconstitutional; and e. In certain entries, such as Entry 25 in List III, the Constitution uses specific expressions such as “subject to” in to 110 Mineral Area Development Authority & Anr. vs Steel Authority of India & Anr, 2024 INSC 554 [40-42] 416 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports resolve potential overlaps between entries in the three lists. This is used in cases where the Constitution stipulates that the exercise of power traceable to certain legislative entries overrides the exercise of power traceable to another entry in a different list. 85. The provisions of the Madarsa Act seek to “regulate” Madarsas. These are educational institutions run by a religious minority. There is a distinction between “religious instruction” and “religious education”. While the Madarsas do impart religious instruction, their primary aim is education. Legislative entries must be given their widest meaning, and their ambit also extends to ancillary subjects which may be comprehended within the entry. The mere fact that the education which is sought to be regulated includes some religious teachings or instruction, does not automatically push the legislation outside the legislative competence of the state. 86. Article 28 is titled “Freedom as to attendance at religious instruction or religious worship in certain educational institutions”.