75. The petitioners have not argued that corporate donations should be prohibited. However, it was argued by some of the petitioners that coercive threats are used to extract money from businesses as contributions virtually as protection money. Major opposition parties, which may come to power, are given smaller amounts to keep them happy. It was also submitted that there should be a cap on the quantum of donations and the law should stipulate funds to be utilised for political purposes given that the income of the political parties is exempt from income tax. Lastly, suggestions were made that corporate funds should be accumulated and the corpus equitably distributed amongst national and regional parties. | have not in-depth examined these aspects to make a pronouncement. However, the issues raised do require examination and study. is the underlying principle behind the first three prongs, legitimate aim, rational connection and necessity test. The balancing analysis of the permissible degree of harm for a constitutionally permissible purpose effectuates the guarantee of reasonableness. Therefore, any legislative action which is manifestly arbitrary, would be disproportionate and will fall foul when we apply the principle of proportionality. See also Shayara Bano v. Union of India, (2017) 9 SCC 1, where the Court held at paragraph 95, that rationality, logic and reasoning are the triple underpinnings of the test of manifest arbitrariness. [2024] 2 S.C.R. 606 Digital Supreme Court Reports 76. By an interim dated 26.03.2021, this Court in the context of contributions made by companies through Bonds had prima facie observed that the voter would be able to secure information about the funding by matching the information of aggregate sum contributed by the company as required to be disclosed under Section 182(8) of the Companies Act, as amended by the Finance Act 2017, with the information disclosed by the political party. Dr. D.Y. Chandrachud, Hon'ble the Chief Justice, rightly observes in his that this exercise would not reveal the particulars of donations, including the name of the donor. 7. By the dated 02.11.2023, this Court had asked for ECIl’s compliance with the interim of this Court dated 12.04.2019. Relevant portion whereof is reproduced below: “In the above perspective, according to us, the just and proper interim direction would be to require all the political parties who have received donations through Electoral Bonds to submit to the Election Commission of India in sealed cover, detailed particulars of the donors as against the each Bond; the amount of each such bond and the full particulars of the credit received against each bond, namely, the particulars of the bank account to which the amount has been credited and the date of each such credit.” The intent of the dated 12.04.2019 is that the ECI will continue to maintain full particulars of the donors against each Bond; the amount of each such Bond and the full particulars of the credit received against each Bond, that is, the particulars of the bank account to which the amount has been credited and the date of each such credit.