[2024] 3 S.C.R. 261 In Re: T.N. Godavarman Thirumulpad v. Union of India & Ors. In Re: Gaurav Kumar Bansal 125. The CEC during the site visit was shown the locations where the unauthorized buildings once stood but these buildings were not there at the time of the site visit of CEC as they had been demolished on the s of the Director, ‘Project Tiger’. 126. The CEC has further noticed that the DFO, Kalagarh who executed the work illegally had committed similar irregularities during his earlier postings. It is also noticed that the PCCF & HoFF and the DIG Police, Vigilance Department had written in this regard to the Government requesting not to post the said officer in any sensitive post. The Range Officer posted in Pakhrau range had earlier worked with Kishan Chand, DFO, Kalagarh while he was the DFO in the Rajaji Tiger Reserve. Despite the fact that both these officers were accused of the irregularities that took place in the Rajaji Tiger Reserve, they were again posted together in the Kalagarh Forest Division. 127. The CEC also noticed that the DFO, Kalagarh was transferred from the Kalagarh Forest Division only after the site visit of the CEC even though the report submitted by the NTCA had found that the illegalities/irregularities were committed by him. It is also noticed that even after it came to the notice of the higher authorities that the DFO, Kalagarh had issued work s without any authority in respect of the works which have been listed above, yet for unknown reasons, he was not named as an accused in the forest offences. 128. The CEC has formed an opinion that the cavalier attitude of the Government of Uttarakhand indicated that the officer was having tacit backing of his bosses in the execution of the unauthorized works worth crores of rupees at the cost of the environment and the wildlife in a prestigious and world-renowned Tiger Reserve. 129. The CEC further found that, though the works at the Forest Rest House Campuses were supposed to be for the accommodation of the forest staff, they do not appear to be so. They appear to be meant for providing accommodation consisting of 16 rooms at four locations (64 rooms) for tourists. As per the CEC, it was clear that this was done for the promotion of tourism. 130. The report of the CEC further found that the proposal for the felling of trees at the site of Pakhrau Tiger Safari submitted to MoEF&CC under the Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980 relates to the felling of only 163 trees out of 3,620 trees that have been enumerated within 262 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the 16 Hectares out of the 106.16 Hectares that has been approved for the establishment of the Tiger Safari. It also refers to the report of the FSI dated 20th October 2022, which has estimated the total number of trees felled at the Pakhrau Tiger Safari site to be 2,651. The report further states that approximately additional 534 trees have been felled for the construction of tourist accommodation facilities and water bodies outside the proposed Pakhrau Tiger Safari.