Pertinently, the answering respondent is the only independent prosecution witness in the well-known and infamous Nitish Katara murder case, wherein, pursuant to the answering respondent deposing truthfully in the court against Vikas Yadav, Vishal Yadav and Sukhdev Yadav alias Pahalwan, all of them were convicted under section 302 IPC and were sentenced to imprisonment for life by the Ld. Trial Court and thereafter in appeal the Honourable High Court ed that accused Vikas and Vishal shall not be entitled to any remission till they have completed 25 years of actual sentence. 6. However, it is pertinent to mention that the accused persons namely Vikas Yadav and Vishal Yadav, are son and nephew of DP Yadav, Ex-Minister and Member of Parliament, who is a known history sheeter having more than 57 criminal cases registered against him and a copy of the same is annexed herewith as annexure R-2/1 (Pages 28-30). That it is also appropriate to mention here that due to continuous intimidation, cajoling and threats by D P Yadav and his associate, except the answering respondent all other prosecution witnesses had turned hostile, but the answering respondent being a responsible citizen has deposed truthfully and has in this way has significantly contributed in the administration of justice. 7. Pertinently, the Division Bench of the Hon’ble High Court in its dated 06.02.2015, had categorically observed the traumatisation and the pressure put on the answering respondent to prevent him from deposing against the accused persons, in as much as the Hon’ble Court has categorically inter-alia observed that the answering respondent was subjected to continuous threats and still [2024] 9 S.C.R. 791 Bhagwan Singh v. State of U.P. & Ors. continues to be under pressure for having appeared as a witness. The Hon’ble Court has observed as under: - “The only public witness Ajay Kumar who could not be influenced and stood by his statement has needed court s for police protection and is being subjected to multiple criminal complaints by relatives of the appellants or persons associated to them. The fact that all these complaints and cases arose only after he surfaced before the police speaks for itself.” “...we have noted the traumatization and the pressure put on Ajay Katara to prevent him from deposing in the present case. Prior to the case in hand Ajay Katara seems to have been living an ordinary existence... Post the murder of Nitish Katara and his deposition as a witness in the case, he is facing multiple cases…..” 8-9…. 10. That it is pertinent to mention here that the answering respondent is paying a heavy price for speaking truth in the court, in as much as, after appearing as prosecution in the abovementioned case, the answering respondent, who never had any civil or criminal case against him has been thereafter continuously targeted with a campaign of false and frivolous legal cases and has been since thereafter named as an accused in around (37)thirty - seven cases including six (6) cases under section 376 IPC, including the present case all at the behest of powerful Yadav family and their associates and the answering respondent.