As held by this Court in Puran v. Rambilas [(2001) 6 SCC 338: 2001 SCC (Cri) 1124], the High Court does have the power under Section 439(2) CrPC to set aside an unjustified, illegal or perverse granting bail. This is an independent ground for cancellation as against ground of the accused misconducting himself.” (emphasis added) As held in the case of Puran v. Rambilas,3 apart from the ground that the accused has committed breaches of terms and conditions on which bail is granted, if he has otherwise misconducted himself, the High Court or Sessions Court can exercise power under Section 439(2) of CrPC to cancel the bail. Bail can be cancelled if the bail is wholly unjustified, patently illegal, or perverse. Once it is held that there is a power vesting in the High Court or Sessions Court to cancel bail by exercising power under Section 439(2) of CrPC, it follows that the power to stay an granting bail is implicit in the Court dealing with the applications. The question is about the contours of the exercise of power to grant a stay. POWER TO GRANT INTERIM STAY OF GRANTING BAIL 10. When a person is arrested, the rights guaranteed by Article 21 of the Constitution of India get substantially curtailed. The law permits arrests of the accused as provided in the CrPC or the BNSS. The effect of the grant of bail under the provisions of Sections 437 and 439 of the CrPC (Sections 480 and 483 of the BNSS) is that the liberty of the undertrial accused is restored pending the trial, subject to the accused complying with the conditions of bail. When the High Court or Sessions Court stays such an , it amounts to taking away the liberty granted under the of bail. When an application for cancellation of bail is filed, the High Court or Sessions Court should be very slow in granting drastic interim relief of stay of the 986 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports granting bail. The reason is when a Court competent to grant bail finds the accused entitled to be enlarged on bail unless the said is set aside on the limited grounds of cancellation available under sub-section (2) of Section 439 of CrPC or any other proceedings, the accused who has been granted bail cannot be normally deprived of his right to liberty guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution. Even if the granting bail is not stayed, the accused can always be taken into custody if the bail is finally cancelled. 11. While issuing notice on an application for cancellation of bail, without passing a drastic of stay, if the facts so warrant, the High Court can, by way of an interim , impose additional bail conditions on the accused, which will ensure that the accused does not flee. However, an granting a stay to the operation of the granting bail during the pendency of the application for cancellation of bail should be passed in very rare cases.