Digital Supreme Court Reports industrial purposes. The State, however, can place reasonable restrictions on the said trade or business in the interests of the general public under Article 19(6) of the Constitution. (m) The restrictions placed on the trade or business in industrial alcohol or in medicinal and toilet preparations containing liquor or alcohol may also be for the purposes of preventing their abuse or diversion for use as or in beverage.” (underlining by me) Survey of Judicial Precedents: Synthetics and Chemicals (7J): 9. Since the main controversy in this case turns on the correctness of the decision in Synthetics and Chemicals (7J), it is necessary to advert to the same in some detail. 9.1 In the said case, the main contour of the controversy was whether vend fee in respect of “industrial alcohol” under different legislations and rules in different States was valid. In this context, the following three questions were considered: "(i) whether the power to levy excise duty in case of industrial alcohol was with the State Legislature or the Central Legislature? (ii) what is the scope and ambit of Entry 8 of List II of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution? (iii) whether, the State Government has exclusive right or privilege of manufacturing, selling, distributing, etc. of alcohols including industrial alcohol. In this connection, the extent, scope and ambit of such right or privilege has also to be examined.” 9.1.1 In this background, the expressions “intoxicating liquors” and “alcoholic liquors for human consumption” were considered and also Article 47 of the Constitution which deals with the State’s duty regarding the improvement of public health and to bring about prohibition of the consumption except for medicinal purposes of [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2077 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons intoxicating drinks and of drugs which are injurious to health. Reference was also made to Entry 52 – List I which deals with industries, the control of which by the Union is declared by Parliament by law to be expedient in public interest. 9.1.2 It was the contention of the petitioners therein that the IDRA was enacted with a view to developing and controlling various important industries. Section 2 of the IDRA declares that it is expedient in the public interest that Union should take under its control the industries specified in the First Schedule. 9.1.3 The said case did not concern primarily with potable alcohol for the purpose of human consumption but with ethyl alcohol (rectified spirit) as an industrial raw material for manufacture of downstream products. This Court concerned itself with the taxing power of the States to impose and levy excise duty on “industrial alcohol” and/or imposts such as vend fees. “Power Alcohol” was defined as ethyl alcohol containing not less than 95.5 per cent volume of ethanol measured at 60°F, corresponding to 74.4 over proof strength. That rectified spirit was ethyl alcohol or ethanol with 96 per cent alcohol. On dehydration, ethyl alcohol with 99.5 per cent volume of ethanol is produced.