for the Respondents. 360 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports / of the Supreme Court R. Mahadevan, J. Leave granted. 2. The appellants, claiming themselves as elected Secretary and President of a temple viz., Oachira Parabrahma Temple situated at Kerala (hereinafter shortly referred to as “the subject temple”), have preferred these Civil Appeals against two s passed by a learned Single Judge of the High Court of Kerala at Ernakulam viz. one is a final and dated 02.03.2020 passed in RFA No. 562/2010 and another is an dated 07.02.2023 passed in I.A No. 5/2022. Brief background 3. According to the averments made in the Civil Appeals, the subject temple is a unique, ancient and historical one as there is no building, consecrated idol or deity and sanctum sanctorum. The management of the temple and the institutions being run under it, such as, super speciality hospital, nursing college, etc., are governed by the bye-laws of the temple. As per the Bye-laws, the administration is vested in a system of three-tier elected Committees, viz., Pothubharana Samithi (General Board), Pravarthaka Samithi (Working Committee) and Karya Nirvahana Samithi (Executive Committee). The Appellant Nos.1 and 2 were elected as Secretary and President respectively of the Executive Committee in the election held during May 2017 and thereafter, no election has been conducted so far. However, on 07.04.2022, the Executive Committee, which existed till then, was voted out in a no-confidence motion, and a new committee consisting of 11 members, including the appellants, assumed office. 4. In the year 2006, some devotees filed a suit in OS.No.1/2006 before the 1st Additional District Court, Kollam, seeking to frame a Scheme for administration of the subject temple and the institutions thereunder. By and decree dated 09.04.2010, the trial Court passed a preliminary decree directing framing a Scheme; and further, directed the parties to file a draft Scheme. It was also observed by the trial Court that till the Scheme is framed, the administration of the subject temple would continue as per the Bye-laws of the temple. [2024] 12 S.C.R. 361 Oachira Parabrahma Temple & Anr. v. G. Vijayanathakurup and Ors. 5. Aggrieved by the aforesaid preliminary decree of the trial Court, the defendant Nos.12 and 13 who are Sthanis (Hereditary Trustees) of the temple, preferred a Regular First Appeal bearing No.562/2010 before the High Court of Kerala at Ernakulam, seeking a direction to the trial Court to make adequate safeguards for them, with respect to their share of amounts and their roles to play, in the proposed Scheme. During the pendency of the said RFA, an interim dated 05.10.2010 came to be passed by a learned Single Judge of the High Court, appointing an Advocate Commissioner viz., Mr.B.Premnath, for the purpose of counting the offerings in the temple. According to the appellants, the Advocate Commissioner so appointed was only to the limited purpose of counting the offerings in the temple and he had not been given any power to administer the subject temple over and above the Committees or to supervise the Committees at any point of time.