[Paras 33, 34, 36, 37] List of Keywords Administration of Justice; Principles of justice; Miscarriage of procedural justice; Error of jurisdiction; Audi alteram partem. Case Arising From EXTRAORDINARY APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Special Leave Petition (Criminal) Nos. 550-551 of 2024. From the and dated 09.01.2024 of the High Court of Himachal Pradesh at Shimla in CRMP No.79 of 2024 and CRWP No.14 of 2023. 444 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Appearances for Parties Mukul Rohtagi, Sr. Adv., Gagan Gupta, Arkaj Kumar, Padmesh Mishra, Ms. Ranjeeta Rohatgi, Ms. Tanya Aggarwal, Rushab Aggarwal, Aakarsh Mishra, Advs. for the Petitioner. Rahul Sharma, Ms. Rashmi Malhotra, Advs. for the Respondents. / of the Supreme Court Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI 1. Application for impleadment is allowed. Mr Nishant Sharma, complainant, shall be added as a respondent to these proceedings. Mr Rahul Sharma, counsel appears along with Ms Rashmi Malhotra, counsel on behalf of the newly added respondent. 2. These proceedings emanate from an of a Division Bench of the High Court of Himachal Pradesh dated 9 January 2024. Criminal Writ Petition and proceedings before the High Court 3. The proceedings before the High Court were initiated on an email from Mr Nishant Kumar Sharma, addressed to the Chief Justice of the High Court through the Registrar General. The complainant alleged in his email, that he was facing threats emanating from two persons - “X”, a former IPS officer and “Y”, a practicing advocate. 4. According to his email, the complainant is a resident of Palampur, in District Kangra of Himachal Pradesh. His family conducts a hotel in Palampur. A relative of “Y” had invested in the company of the complainant. He alleges that “Y” has been pressurizing him and his father through “X”to sell their shares in their company. “Y” was stated to have threatened the company’s auditors, and obstructed its functioning. The complainant alleged that he had escaped an assault on 25 August, 2023 in Gurugram. The allegation was that he was receiving phone calls from the office of the petitioner, who is the Director General of Police1, Himachal Pradesh at the behest of Y. Allegedly, the complainant received a WhatsApp message from the SHO, Palampur stating that the petitioner wished to speak to him 1 “DGP”. [2024] 1 S.C.R. 445 Sanjay Kundu v. Registrar General, High Court of Himachal Pradesh & Ors and that he must call back on a particular phone number. When the complainant established contact, he was connected to the petitioner, who insisted that the complainant come to Shimla to meet him. The email detailed criminal complaints filed by him in Gurugram after an alleged attack on him, and subsequent instances of intimidation to compel him to withdraw them. No FIR was registered in respect of this complaint and a later complaint filed by the complainant in relation to an incident that transpired in Mcleodganj. 5. On 9 November 2023, the High Court suo motu registered a Criminal Writ Petition pursuant to the above email. The State of Himachal Pradesh, Superintendent of Police, Kangra and Superintendent of Police, Shimla were arrayed as respondents.