55 The Authorised Officer, Central Bank of India v. Shanmugavelu suppress the mischief and advance the remedy. If indeed section 73 and section 74, which are part of the general law of contract, were sufficient to cater to the remedy, the need to make sub-rule (5) of rule 9 as part of the Rules might not have arisen. Additionally, insertion of sub-rule (5) with such specificity regarding forfeiture must not have been thought of only for reiterating what is already there. It was visualized by the law makers that there was a need to arrest cases of deceptive manipulation of prices at the instance of unscrupulous borrowers by thwarting sale processes and this was the trigger for insertion of such a provision with wide words conferring extensive powers of forfeiture. The purpose of such insertion must have also been aimed at instilling a sense of discipline in the intending purchasers while they proceed to participate in the auction-sale process. At the cost of repetition, it must not be forgotten that the SARFAESI Act was enacted because the general laws were not found to be workable and efficient enough to ensure liquidity of finances and flow of money essential for any healthy and growth- oriented economy. The decision of this Court in Mardia Chemicals v. Union of India [(2004) 4 SCC 311], while outlawing only a part of the SARFAESI Act and upholding the rest, has traced the history of this legislation and the objects that Parliament had in mind in sufficient detail. Apart from the law laid down in such decision, these are the other relevant considerations which ought to be borne in mind while examining a challenge to a forfeiture . 21. There is one other aspect which is, more often than not, glossed over. In terms of sub-rule (5) of rule 9, generally, forfeiture would be followed by an exercise to resell the immovable property. On the date an of forfeiture is in contemplation of the authorized officer of the secured creditor for breach committed by the bidder, factually, the position is quite uncertain for the former in that there is neither any guarantee of his receiving bids pursuant to a future sale, much to the satisfaction of the secured creditor, nor is there any gauge to measure the likely loss to be suffered by it (secured creditor) if no bidders were interested to purchase the immovable property. Since the extent of 56 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports loss cannot be immediately foreseen or calculated, such officers may not have any option but to forfeiture of the amount deposited by the defaulting bidder in an attempt to recover as much money as possible so as to reduce the secured debt. That the immovable property is later sold at the same price or at a price higher than the one which was offered by the party suffering the forfeiture is not an eventuality that occurs in each and every case. Sections 73 and 74 of the Contract Act would not, therefore, be sufficient to take care of the interest of the secured creditor in such a case and that also seems to be another reason for bringing in the provision for forfeiture in rule 9.