[Para 79] Elections — Electoral process — Electoral Bond Scheme - Amendmentto s. 182 of the Companies Act, 2013 Act, deleting the first proviso thereunder (as amended by the s. 154 of the Finance Act, 2017) thereby permitting unlimited corporate funding to political parties — First proviso to s. 182 provided the limit of contribution by the company upto seven and a half per cent of its average net profits during the three immediately preceding financial years — Validity of: Held: (per Dr Dnananjaya Y Chandrachud, Cul.) (for himself and for B R Gavai, J 8 Pardiwala and Manoj Misra, JJ): Is arbitrary and violative of Art. 14 — It infringes the principle of free and fair elections — Amendment to 5. 182 is manifestly arbitrary for treating political contributions by companies and individuals alike; permitting the unregulated influence of companies in the governance and political process violating the principle of free and fair elections; and treating contributions made by profit-making and loss-making companies to political parties alike [Paras 215, 216] — Held: (per Sanjiv Khanna, J.) Amendment to s. 182 of the Companies Act, deleting the first proviso thereunder, is unconstitutional, and is 422 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports struck down — Principle of proportionality applied which would subsume the test of manifest arbitrariness — Furthermore, the claim of privacy by a corporate or a company, especially a public limited company would be on very limited grounds, restricted possibly to protect the privacy of the individuals and persons responsible for conducting the business and commerce of the company - It would be rather difficult for a public (or even a private) limited company to claim a violation of privacy as its affairs have to be open to the shareholders and the public who are interacting with the body corporate/company — Constitution of India — Art. 14 - Companies Act, 2013 - 5. 182. [Para 73] Elections - Electoral process — Electoral Bond Scheme - Non-disclosure of information on voluntary contributions to political parties under the Electoral Bond Scheme and the amendments to s. 29C of the Representation of the People Act 1951, s. 182(3) of the Companies Act and s. 13A(b) of the IT Act by the Finance Act, 2017 — If violative of Art. 19(1)(a): Held: (per Dr Dnananjaya ४ Chandrachud, CuJI.) (for himself and for B R Gavai, J B Pardiwala and Manoj Misra, JJ) Information about funding to a political party is essential for a voter to exercise their freedom to vote in an effective manner — Electoral Bond Scheme and the impugned provisions-proviso to s. 29C(1) of the RPA, s. 182(3) of the CA, and s. 13A(b) of the ITA to the extent that they infringe upon the right to information of the voter by anonymizing contributions through electoral bonds are violative of Art 19(1)(a) and unconstitutional — Union of India was unable to establish that the measure employed in Clause 7(4) of the Electoral Bond Scheme is the least restrictive means to balance the rights of informational privacy to political contributions and the right to information of political contributions — Deletion of the mandate of disclosing the particulars of contributions in s. 182(3) violates the right to information of the voter since they would not possess information about the political party to which the contribution was made which, is necessary to identify corruption and quid pro quo transactions in governance — Such information is also necessary for exercising an informed vote - 5.