The Court followed the Hicklin test and Ranjit Udeshi (supra) in Shri Chandrakant Kalyandas Kakodkar v. State of Maharashtra30 but it also introduced certain caveats and refined the test to some extent. Considering the material in that case, a Marathi short story Shama, the Court held that the story read as a whole does not amount to pornography or pander to the prurient interest. Even if the work is not of high literary quality and is immature and of bad taste, there was nothing that could deprave or corrupt those in whose hands it is likely to fall, including adolescents.31 The Court also cautioned that the standard for the artist or the writer is not that the adolescent mind must not be brought in contact with sex or that the work must be expunged of all references to sex, irrespective of whether it is the dominant theme.32 The test for obscenity was stated as: “What we have to see is that whether a class, not an isolated case, into whose hands the book, article or story falls suffer in their moral outlook or become depraved by reading it or might have impure and lecherous thoughts aroused in their minds.”33 17. In KA Abbas v. Union of India34 the Court summarised the test and process to determine obscenity as follows: “(1) Treating with sex and nudity in art and literature cannot be regarded as evidence of obscenity without something more. (2) Comparison of one book with another to find the extent of permissible action is not necessary. 28 ibid, para 21 29 ibid, paras 9, 22, and 29 30 [1970] 2 SCR 80 : (1969) 2 SCC 687 : 1969 INSC 202 31 ibid, paras 9 and 10 32 ibid, para 12 33 ibid, para 12 34 (1970) 2 SCC 780, para 48 [2024] 3 S.C.R. 1163 Apoorva Arora & Anr. Etc. v. State (Govt. of Nct of Delhi) & Anr. (3) The delicate task of deciding what is artistic and what is obscene has to be performed by courts and in the last resort, by the Supreme Court and so, oral evidence of men of literature or others on the question of obscenity is not relevant. (4) An overall view of the obscene matter in the setting of the whole work would of course be necessary but the obscene matter must be considered by itself and separately to find out whether it is so gross and its obscenity is so decided that it is likely to deprave or corrupt those whose minds are open to influence of this sort and into whose hands the book is likely to fall. (5) The interests of contemporary society and particularly the influence of the book, etc., on it must not be overlooked. (6) Where obscenity and art are mixed, art must be so preponderating as to throw obscenity into shadow or render the obscenity so trivial and insignificant that it can have no effect and can be overlooked. (7) Treating with sex in a manner offensive to public decency or morality which are the words of our Fundamental Law judged by our national standards and considered likely to pender to lescivious, pourlent or sexually precocious minds must determine the result.