In the alternative, it was contended that if the said levy is held to be a tax and not a fee, it would be a tax relatable to Entry 50 - List II and as such the legislative competence of the State legislature to impose the same cannot be successfully challenged. 11.1 The scheme of the impugned Act was considered in paragraph 15 of the and it was observed by this Court that the object of the Act was for the purpose of development of mining areas in the State. That the method in which the fee is recovered is a matter of convenience that by itself cannot fix upon the levy the character of duty of excise though the method in which an impost is levied may be relevant in determining its character, its significance and effect. Therefore, it was observed that under the impugned Act, the mere fact that the levy imposed by the impugned Act had adopted the method of determining the rate of the levy with reference to the minerals produced by the mines would not by itself make the levy a duty of excise. The method thus adopted may be relevant in considering the character of the impost but its effect must be weighed along with and in the light of the other relevant circumstances; where an impugned [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1777 Mineral Area Development Authority & Anr. v. M/s Steel Authority of India & Anr. Etc. statute passed by a State legislature is relatable to an Entry in List II, it is not permissible to challenge its vires only on the ground that the method adopted by it for the recovery of the impost can be and is generally adopted in levying a duty of excise. Therefore, it was held that cess in question was neither a tax nor a duty of excise but a fee. 11.2 If the cess was held to be a fee relatable to Entries 23 and 66 - List II, its validity was still open to challenge because the legislative competence of the State Legislature under Entry 23 is subject to the provisions of List I with respect to regulation and development under the control of the Union. 11.3 According to this Court, on a combined reading of two Entries, namely, Entry 23 - List II and Entry 54 - List I, what emerged was that the jurisdiction of the State legislature under Entry 23 - List II is subject to the limitation imposed by the latter part of the said Entry. If Parliament by its law has declared that regulation and development of mines should in public interest be under the control of Union, to the extent of such declaration the jurisdiction of the State Legislature is excluded. In other words, if a Central Act has been passed which contains a declaration by Parliament as required by Entry 54 - List I, and if the said declaration covers the field occupied by the impugned Act, the impugned Act would be ultra vires, not because of any repugnance between the two statutes but because the State legislature had no jurisdiction to pass the law.