To determine who qualifies as a deemed licensee under the Electricity Act, we may refer to the 2013 Regulations. 10. Regulation 2(i)(h) of the 2013 Regulations defines “deemed licensee” as follows: [2024] 5 S.C.R. 751 M/s Sundew Properties Limited v. Telangana State Electricity Regulatory Commission & Anr. “(h) ‘Deemed Licensee’ means a person authorised under sub-section (b) of Section 14 and also under the first, second, third, and fifth provisos to section 14 of the Act to operate and maintain a distribution system for supply of electricity to the consumers in his area of supply.” 11. Regulation 13 of the 2013 Regulations stipulates the procedure to get identified as a deemed distribution licensee. It reads: “13. The deemed licensees shall make application in the form specified in Schedule- 2 to the Commission to get identified as the deemed Licensee. Provided that nothing in Regulations 4 to 11 shall apply to deemed licensees.” 12. Insofar as a developer under the SEZ Act is concerned, a reference may be made to the scheme of the SEZ Act to ascertain its status as deemed distribution licensee. 13. The policy for SEZs was introduced with an objective to create a competitive export environment and to attract foreign investment. It levels the playing field for domestic businesses globally and introduces favourable policies in investment, taxation, trade, customs, and labour regulations. In line with this, for the purpose of ensuring consistent and high-quality power supply to these SEZ units, the MoCI, vide the 2010 Notification [under clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 49 of the SEZ Act] has specified that the ‘developer’ of the SEZ shall be deemed to be a ‘distribution licensee’ under the provisions of the Electricity Act. The proviso inserted in clause (b) of section 14 of the Electricity Act, vide the 2010 Notification, reads as follows: “Provided that the Developer of a Special Economic Zone notified under sub-section (1) of Section 4 of the Special Economic Zones Act, 2005, shall be deemed to be a licensee for the purpose of this clause, with effect from the date of notification of such Special Economic Zone.” 14. With the inclusion of the aforementioned proviso to section 14(b) of the Electricity Act, it is evident that a SEZ developer is deemed to be a distribution licensee. 15. The main contention of the parties that whether the TSERC imposed condition to infuse additional capital per rule 3(2) of the 2005 Rules read with regulation 12 of the 2013 Regulations is justifiable or 752 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports extraneous is deliberated at length in a later part of this . Regulation 12 provides that a person applying for a grant of a distribution licence shall, in addition to regulations 4 to 11, comply with the 2005 Rules. Regulation 12 is extracted below: “12. Application for grant of Distribution Licence in the area of supply of an existing Distribution Licensee – A person applying for grant of a licence for distribution of electricity through his own distribution system within the same area of supply of an existing Distribution Licensee shall, in addition to the provisions of Regulation 4 to 11, comply with “Distribution of Electricity Licence (additional requirements of Capital Adequacy, Creditworthiness and Code of Conduct) Rules, 2005” issued by the Central Government.” 16.