In such circumstances, the contention of the Borrower as-well as the Subsequent Transferee that the Sale Certificate that was issued in pursuance of the decision in the Main Appeals was always subject to the outcome of the S.A. No. 46 of 2022 pending before the DRT, is nothing but an after-thought which the Borrower now seeks to espouse having lost in the Main Appeals and as such the said contention deserves to be rejected. (v) Even though the petitioner had specifically prayed for the issuance of the Sale Certificate to the Secured Asset, not once did the Borrower dispute the same or assert that such certificate would be contingent to on the outcome of the DRT proceedings. The Borrower neither in the Main Appeals nor in the review thereto raised the issue of validity of the 9th auction notice or brought to the notice of this court the terms of the auction, more particularly that such auction was subject to the outcome of the S.A. No. 46 of 2022. Having admittedly failed to do so, the espousal of the aforesaid contention by the Borrower now is nothing but an abuse of process and an attempt to indirectly circumvent the decision of this Court in the Main Appeals and collaterally challenge the determination of rights therein. (vi) Furthermore, the direction of this Court in the Main Appeals for issuance of Sale Certificate conferred absolute ownership to the petitioner to the Secured Asset, in view of the fact that: -: - a. The impugned passed by the High Court had been set-aside in toto. b. It was held that the Borrower could not have redeemed its mortgage upon publication of the 9th auction notice. c. The Bank was further directed to refund the amount paid by the Borrower towards redemption. d. It was also held that the Bank after having confirmed the sale under Rule 9(2) of the Rules of 2002 could not have withhold the sale certificate to the Secured Asset. 1708 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports In view of the above, it is clear as a noon day that this Court never held that the Sale Certificate to be issued to the petitioner was subject to the outcome of the DRT proceedings. As such, once the sale of the Secured Asset under Section 13(4) of the SARFAESI Act ended in issuance of a Sale Certificate as per Rule 9 (7) of the SARFAESI Rules, such sale was complete and absolute. (vii) Lastly, this court in its decision in the Main Appeals by no means either preserved the right or permitted the Borrower to continue pursuing the proceedings in S.A. No. 46 of 2022 pending before the DRT. This is in view of the maxim Expressio Unius Est Exclusio Alterius i.e., the expression of one thing is the exclusion of another. Where a court consciously and specifically grants certain reliefs but does not advert to other reliefs or rights, the relief so expressly provided necessarily leads to the implied exclusion of the other reliefs and rights.