Proceedings before this Court and the Delaware Court 24. On 1 August 2024, Byju’s Alpha Inc. and the appellant instituted a motion before the Delaware Court seeking a temporary restraining against Riju Raveendran, inter alia restraining him from using his personal assets to satisfy the dues of the second respondent. Before the Delaware Court, the appellant contended that fraudulent payments were being made by Riju Raveendran to pay the operational debt due to the second respondent and dismiss insolvency proceedings against the Corporate Debtor, which is “his older brother’s crumbling business enterprise in India”. On 8 August 2024, the Delaware Court passed an rejecting the motion. 25. The appellant instituted the present Civil Appeal before this Court, challenging the Impugned Judgement of the NCLAT. By an dated 14 August 2024, this Court issued notice on the appeal and directed that there would be a stay on the operation of the Impugned 21 (2022) 8 SCC 330. 1820 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports . The second respondent was directed to maintain the amount of Rs 158 crores, which has been realized in pursuance of the settlement, in a separate escrow account, to abide by further directions of this Court. 26. In view of the above directions of this Court granting an interim stay on the Impugned Judgement, the CIRP proceedings resumed. On 19 August 2024, the IRP addressed a letter to the appellant noting that the CIRP had revived, verified the claim submitted by the appellant and admitted the appellant as a financial creditor. Accordingly, the IRP constituted the CoC, which consisted of four financial creditors, including the appellant. 27. Subsequently, by a letter dated 1 September 2024, the IRP sought to reconstitute the CoC and reclassify the claim of the appellant as ‘contingent’. The IRP stated that the reclassification of the claim as ‘contingent’ was on account of purported disqualification notices issued by the Corporate Debtor to certain lenders of the loan, which allegedly disqualified more than sixty percent of the lenders and therefore, the appellant no longer had the requisite authorization. From the record and submissions before us, it appears that the first meeting of the CoC took place on 3 September 2024. 28. On 26 September 2024, this Court reserved its and directed that the IRP maintain the status quo and not hold any meeting of the CoC until the is pronounced. B. Issues 29. In view of the above background, the following issues arise for our consideration: a. Whether the appellant, who is not a party to the settlement between the second respondent and the Corporate Debtor, has locus in the proceedings before this Court; b. Whether the NCLAT erred in invoking its inherent powers under Rule 11 of the NCLAT Rules 2016 in the presence of a prescribed procedure for withdrawal of CIRP and settlement of claims between parties; and c. Without prejudice to the above, whether the NCLAT adequately addressed the objections raised by the appellant, while [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1821 GLAS Trust Company LLC v. BYJU Raveendran & Ors.