For this reason in 1944- 45, a group of industrialists in India took out a paper called “A Plan Of Economic Development For India”, which is popularly known as the ‘Bombay Plan’.20 Some even refer to it as the Tata-Birla Plan. The Bombay Plan was a visionary scheme drafted in the year 1944 by the then leaders of Indian industry and commerce. The plan recommended an economic policy for the National government, which would soon be taking power. The following were the prominent signatories to the plan: 17 O. chinnaPPa reddy, the cOurt and the cOnstitutiOn Of india: suMMits and shallOws (Oxford University Press, 2008), Pg. 137. 18 BiPan chandra, natiOnalisM & cOlOnialisM in MOdern india (Orient Longman, 1979), Pg. 158. 19 BiPan chandra, natiOnalisM & cOlOnialisM in MOdern india (Orient Longman, 1979), Pg. 145. 20 sir P.thakurdas, Jrd tata et al., a Plan Of ecOnOMic develOPMent fOr india (Part ii) (1944). Also see sanJay Baru (ed. ), the BOMBay Plan (Rupa Publications India Pvt Ltd., 2018), Pg. 292. 272 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 1. JRD Tata, one of India’s pioneer industrialists. 2. G. D. Birla, the leader of the Birla group of industries. 3. Sir Ardeshir Dalal, an able administrator and technocrat. 4. Lala Shriram, a prominent north Indian industrialist. 5. Kasturbhai Lalbhai, a famous Indian Industrialist. 6. D. Shroff, director of a number of prominent industries including a few of the Tata group. 7. John Mathai, professor of economics at Madras University and a political personality. 8. Purushottamdas Thakurdas, a Bombay based businessman and business leader. According to the Bombay Plan, per capita income in the country would double in 15 years from the implementation of the plan. It also laid down policies and methods for securing a better standard of living, improving medical and educational conditions. It also aimed at increasing agricultural production by 130% mainly through promotion of cooperative farming. But it is the second part of the Bombay plan which is relevant here, where it recognised nationalisation of key industries and the dominant role of the State in the economic development of the Country. It accepted as fait accompli the dominant role of socialism in the economic policies of the national government, but was nevertheless determined to retain and carve out a new space for private capital. It admitted that the existing system based on private enterprise and ownership has not provided the desired results, particularly in the distribution of national income and sought to overcome the weaknesses of private enterprises. This is what the Bombay plan says: “...On the one hand, we recognize that the existing economic organization, based on private enterprise and ownership, has failed to bring about a satisfactory distribution of the national income. On the other hand, we feel that in spite of its admitted shortcomings, it possesses certain features which have stood the test of time and have enduring [2024] 11 S.C.R. 273 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. achievements to their credit.