It is not permissible to classify backward classes or a backward class social group into an advanced section and a backward section either on economic or any other consideration. The test of advancement lies in the capacity to compete with the forward classes. If the advanced section in a backward class is so advanced as to be able to compete with the forward classes, the advanced section from the backward class no longer belongs to the backward class and should cease to be considered so and denied the benefit of reservations under Article 16(4).” 147. It could thus be seen that Sawant, J. observed that if the advanced section in a backward class is so advanced as to be able to compete with the forward classes, the advanced section from the backward 1536 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports class no longer belongs to the backward class and should cease to be considered so and denied the benefit of reservations under Article 16(4). F. E.V. Chinnaiah vs. State of A.P. 148. In the case of E.V. Chinnaiah, the validity of the Andhra Pradesh Scheduled Castes (Rationalisation of Reservations) Act, 2000 (A.P. Act 20 of 2000) was challenged before the High Court of Andhra Pradesh at Hyderabad. The same was dismissed by the 5-Judge Bench by a majority of 4:1. Under the said Act, the castes in the Presidential List of Scheduled Castes came to be classified in 4 groups. The seats were apportioned in different proportions amongst the said 4 groups. 149. N. Santosh Hegde, J. for himself, S.N. Variava, and B.P. Singh, JJ. (as Their Lordships then were) observed thus: “13. We will first consider the effect of Article 341 of the Constitution and examine whether the State could, in the guise of providing reservation for the weaker of the weakest, tinker with the Presidential List by subdividing the castes mentioned in the Presidential List into different groups. Article 341 which is found in Part XVI of the Constitution refers to special provisions relating to certain classes which includes the Scheduled Castes. This article provides that the President may with respect to any State or Union Territory after consultation with the Governor thereof by public notification, specify the castes, races or tribes or parts of or groups within castes, races or tribes which shall for the purposes of this Constitution be deemed to be Scheduled Castes in relation to that State or Union Territory. This indicates that there can be only one list of Scheduled Castes in regard to a State and that list should include all specified castes, races or tribes or part or groups notified in that Presidential List. Any inclusion or exclusion from the said list can only be done by Parliament under Article 341(2) of the Constitution. In the entire Constitution wherever reference has been made to “Scheduled Castes” it refers only to the list prepared by the President under Article 341 and there is no reference to any subclassification or division in the said list except, [2024] 8 S.C.R.