121. As discussed in the foregoing parts of this , the decision of this Court in All India Judges’ Association (3) (supra) has laid 1136 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports down the method of recruitment to the posts in the Higher Judicial Service, i.e., District Judges and Additional District Judges. Prior to the said decision, there were only two sources for recruitment to the Higher Judicial Service – first, by promotion from amongst the members of the District Judicial Service; and secondly, by direct recruitment from among the members of the Bar. 122. This Court in All India Judges’ Association (3) (supra), with a view to enhance the efficiency of the District judiciary and to create an avenue of accelerated promotions for the relatively junior members of the service, introduced two methods of appointment, one by way of promotion, wherein 50% of the total posts were to be filled by promotion on the basis of the principle of ‘Merit-cum-Seniority’ through a test assessing the continued efficiency and adequate knowledge of case-law of the judicial officers, and the remaining 25% of the posts were to be filled up by promotions strictly on the basis of merit through the limited departmental competitive examination. At the cost of repetition, the relevant observations read as under: - “27. At the same time, we are of the opinion that there has to be certain minimum standard, objectively adjudged, for officers who are to enter the Higher Judicial Service as Additional District Judges and District Judges. While we agree with the Shetty Commission that the recruitment to the Higher Judicial Service i.e. the District Judge cadre from amongst the advocates should be 25 per cent and the process of recruitment is to be by a competitive examination, both written and viva voce, we are of the opinion that there should be an objective method of testing the suitability of the subordinate judicial officers for promotion to the Higher Judicial Service. Furthermore, there should also be an incentive amongst the relatively junior and other officers to improve and to compete with each other so as to excel and get quicker promotion. In this way, we expect that the calibre of the members of the Higher Judicial Service will further improve. In to achieve this, while the ratio of 75 per cent appointment by promotion and 25 per cent by direct recruitment to the Higher Judicial Service is maintained, we are, however, of the opinion that there should be two methods as far as appointment by promotion is concerned : 50 per cent [2024] 5 S.C.R. 1137 Ravikumar Dhansukhlal Maheta & Anr. v. High Court of Gujarat & Ors. of the total posts in the Higher Judicial Service must be filled by promotion on the basis of principle of merit-cum- seniority. For this purpose, the High Courts should devise and evolve a test in to ascertain and examine the legal knowledge of those candidates and to assess their continued efficiency with adequate knowledge of case-law. The remaining 25 per cent of the posts in the service shall be filled by promotion strictly on the basis of merit through the limited departmental competitive examination for which the qualifying service as a Civil Judge (Senior Division) should be not less than five years.