[2024] 10 S.C.R. 845 Chief Commissioner of Central Goods and Service Tax & Ors. v. M/s Safari Retreats Private Ltd. & Ors. The conduction of the electricity was through conductors held in ducts, called the cable duct system, which were specifically designed for the purpose. The case of the assessee, therefore, was that all these were part of the special engineering works that were an essential part of a generating plant and, therefore, it was entitled to have the same treated as a plant for the purposes of investment allowance. The Commissioner accepted the correctness of the assessee's case. He held that it was clear that the generating station buildings had to be treated as a plant for the purposes of investment allowance. These buildings could not be separated from the machinery and the machinery could not be worked without such special construction. He, therefore, allowed investment allowance on the generating station building, as claimed. The Tribunal affirmed this finding, as, indeed, did the High Court. 6. We, therefore, have before us a finding of fact recorded by the fact-finding authority that the generating station building is an integral part of the assessee's generating system. 7. Our attention has been drawn by learned counsel for the Revenue to the of this Court in CIT v. Anand Theatres [(2000) 5 SCC 393 : (2000) 244 ITR 192] . He submits that, in that , this Court has held that, except in exceptional cases, the building in which the plant is situated must be distinguished from the plant and that, therefore, the assessee's generating station building was not to be treated as a plant for the purposes of investment allowance. 8. It is difficult to read the in the case of Anand Theatres [(2000) 5 SCC 393 : (2000) 244 ITR 192] so broadly. The question before the Court was whether a building that was used as a hotel or a cinema theatre could be given depreciation on the basis that it was a “plant” and it was in relation to that question that the Court considered a host of authorities of this country and England and came to the conclusion that a building which was used as a hotel or a cinema theatre could not be given depreciation on the basis 846 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports that it was a plant. We must add that the Court said: (SCC p. 430, para 67) “67. (7) To differentiate a building for grant of additional depreciation by holding it to be a ‘plant’ in one case where the building is specially designed and constructed with some special features to attract the customers and a building not so constructed but used for the same purpose, namely, as a hotel or theatre would be unreasonable.” This observation is, in our view, limited to buildings that are used for the purposes of hotels or cinema theatres and will not always apply otherwise. The question, basically, is a question of fact, and where it is found as a fact that a building has been so planned and constructed as to serve an assessee’s special technical requirements, it will qualify to be treated as a plant for the purposes of investment allowance.” (emphasis added) 51.