Advs., Raj Bahadur Yadav, Mrs. Gargi Khanna, H. R. Rao, Mrs. Vimla Sinha, Mrs. Ruchi Gaur Narula, Shlok Chandra, Navanjay Mahapatra, R. Chandrachud, Dhuli Venkata Krishna, Advs. for the Respondents. / of the Supreme Court This writ petition is filed under Article 32 of the Constitution of India as a Public Interest Litigation seeking the following prayers to be granted in exercise of powers of this Court under Article 142 of the Constitution: “a. Issue a writ of Mandamus under Article 32 of the Constitution of India or any other appropriate writ, or directions under Article 142 of the Constitution 790 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of the India to the Respondents to execute/carry out the decision/directions of the Central Information Commission given on 27th June, 2019 in the Second Appeal No.CIC/LICOI/A/ 2018/611292-BJ of the Petitioner. b. Issue a writ of Mandamus under Article 32 of the Constitution of India or any other appropriate writ, or directions under Article 142 of the Constitution of the India to the Respondents to take cognizance of the passed by the Apex Court in Writ Petition (Civil) No.1107 of 2017 dated January 03, 2019 and initiate suitable necessary action accordingly. c. Issue or directions to annul/strike down clause(a) of sub-section (2) of Section 88DD of the Income Tax which is against the objective of the legislation and violating the fundamental rights of the handicapped person provided under Article 14 of the Constitution of the India. d. Pass such other s and further s as may be deemed necessary on the facts and in the circumstances of the case.” 2. We have heard Mr. Partha Sil learned counsel who has been appointed to assist this Court and learned senior counsel Mr. Kailash Vasdev for Respondent No.2 and learned senior counsel Ms. Nisha Bagchi for Respondent-Union of India and perused the material on record. 3. Having heard learned counsel for the respective parties, we find that the concerns expressed by the petitioner in this writ petition have been assuaged to a certain extent inasmuch as the Parliament has amended Section 80DD of the Income Tax Act, 1961 (hereinafter referred to as the “Act” for the sake of brevity). The said provision deals with payment of annuity of a lump sum amount for the benefit of a dependant, being a person with disability, in the event of death of the individual or the member of a Hindu Undivided Family (HUF) in whose name the subscription to the scheme stipulated in the said provision has been made. [2024] 8 S.C.R. 791 Ravi Agrawal v. Union of India & Another 4. For easy reference, the said provision is extracted as under: “80DD. Deduction in respect of maintenance including medical treatment of a dependent who is a person with disability.– (1) Where an assessee, being an individual or a Hindu undivided family, who is a resident in India, has, during the previous year.- (a) incurred any expenditure for the medical treatment (including nursing), training and rehabilitation of a dependant, being a person with disability; or (b) paid or deposited any amount under a scheme framed in this behalf by the Life Insurance Corporation or any other insurer or the Administrator or the specified company subject to the conditions specified in sub-section (2) and approved by the Board in this behalf for the maintenance of a dependant, being a person with disability, the assessee shall, in accordance with and subject to the provisions of this section, be allowed a deduction of a sum of seventy-five thousand rupees from his gross total income in respect of the previous year: Provided that where such dependant is a person with severe disability, the provisions of this sub-section shall have effect as if for the words “seventy-five thousand rupees”, the words “one hundred and twenty-five thousand rupees” had been substituted.