There she took bath in the waterfall. Later on, appellant showed her the photographs which he had taken while she was changing her clothes in the temple. Though the prosecutrix told the appellant to delete the photographs, he did not do so. Thereafter, he started [2024] 7 S.C.R. 15 Shiv Pratap Singh Rana v. State of Madhya Pradesh & Anr. blackmailing her by showing her the photographs because of which the prosecutrix stated that she had left the coaching centre and the job. Notwithstanding the same, appellant continued to threaten her by saying that the photographs would be made viral and that those would be shown to her father. It was because of such threatening that she went with the appellant by train from Dabra to Gwalior. On reaching Gwalior, he took her to one place at Anoopam Nagar where he forcefully made physical relationship with her. The place was taken on rent by a friend of the appellant Nitin Nagariya. On 28.09.2016, appellant obtained a stamp paper where he put his as well as the signature of the prosecutrix. It was mentioned in the stamp paper that he would support her throughout her life. According to the prosecutrix, she told the appellant many a times to marry her but on one pretext or the other, he evaded the proposal. Later on, he said that he would marry her after the marriage of his brother Jaideep. Prosecutrix stated that she had given the appellant money on several occasions after withdrawing from bank. On 16.06.2017, prosecutrix gave the appellant a cheque of Rs. 10,000/- of her mother. Appellant also stated that he had left the coaching centre and wanted to do business of his own and then his family members would be ready for marriage. On 07.07.2018, appellant had given the prosecutrix one e-stamp in his name wherein it was mentioned that he would marry her and on his assurance on 22.11.2017, prosecutrix took the pendant of the mangalsootra of her sister and gave it to the appellant. She went with the appellant to the bank where he mortgaged the pendant of the mangalsootra and took loan of Rs. 8,000/-. She further helped him in obtaining loan of Rs. 5,000/-. Later on, when she broached the topic of marriage since marriage of his brother had taken place on 18.04.2018, appellant told the prosecutrix that his brother had received Rs. 15 lacs in marriage; therefore, if she paid Rs. 15 lacs, he would marry her. However, when her family members talked with the family members of the appellant at his house, they refused. Though in the meeting of relatives, appellant was ed to return the jewellery and money to the prosecutrix and also to marry her, he refused to do so. It was thereafter that she lodged the FIR on 05.09.2018. 14. Let us now examine the statement of the prosecutrix dated 12.09.2018 made under Section 164 Cr.P.C. 15. In her statement recorded under Section 164 Cr.P.C., prosecutrix stated that the incident was of the year 2016, in the month of Savan.