There are several reasons which [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1809 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. substantiate this school of thought. For instance, VII Rule 2 of the Supreme Court Rules, 1966 as applicable during the time of the reference stated: “Where in the course of the hearing of any cause, appeal or other proceeding, the Bench considers that the matter should be dealt with by a larger Bench, it shall refer the matter to the Chief Justice, who shall thereupon constitute such a Bench for the hearing of it.” [Emphasis supplied] 92. In this regard, it is imperative to refer to the findings of the Constitution Bench in Central Board of Dawoodi Bohra Community and another v. State of Maharashtra and another,60 which while adjudicating the correctness of previous decisions on the Bombay Prevention of Excommunication Act (Act 42 of 1949), also laid down pertinent principles on the procedure for making references. The decision in Dawoodi Bohra (supra) essentially clarified the framework concerning how a reference should be made, particularly when a bench of lesser strength doubts the correctness of a decision by a larger or co-equal bench. It held that: “12. Having carefully considered the submissions made by the learned senior counsel for the parties and having examined the law laid down by the Constitution Benches in the above said decisions, we would like to sum up the legal position in the following terms :- (1) The law laid down by this Court in a decision delivered by a Bench of larger strength is binding on any subsequent Bench of lesser or co-equal strength. (2) A Bench of lesser quorum cannot doubt the correctness of the view of the law taken by a Bench of larger quorum. In case of doubt all that the Bench of lesser quorum can do is to invite the attention of the Chief Justice and request for the matter being placed for hearing before a Bench of larger quorum than the Bench whose decision has come up for consideration. It will be open only for a Bench of coequal strength to 60 (2005) 2 SCC 673. 1810 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports express an opinion doubting the correctness of the view taken by the earlier Bench of coequal strength, whereupon the matter may be placed for hearing before a Bench consisting of a quorum larger than the one which pronounced the decision laying down the law the correctness of which is doubted. (3) The above rules are subject to two exceptions: (i) The above said rules do not bind the discretion of the Chief Justice in whom vests the power of framing the roster and who can direct any particular matter to be placed for hearing before any particular Bench of any strength; and (ii) In spite of the rules laid down hereinabove, if the matter has already come up for hearing before a Bench of larger quorum and that Bench itself feels that the view of the law taken by a Bench of lesser quorum, which view is in doubt, needs correction or reconsideration then by way of exception (and not as a rule) and for reasons given by it, it may proceed to hear the case and examine the correctness of the previous decision in question dispensing with the need of a specific reference or the of Chief Justice constituting the Bench and such listing.