K J John And Co, Rahul Gupta, Advs. for the Respondents. / of the Supreme Court 1. Heard learned counsel for the parties. 2. Under challenge in this statutory appeal is the and dated 21.12.2021 passed by the Securities Appellate Tribunal, Mumbai [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1119 Jyoti Limited v. BSE Limited & Anr in Appeal No. 224 of 2019 titled as “Jyoti Limited Vs. BSE Limited and Anr.”. 3. The appellant-Jyoti Limited applied for listing of certain equity shares to the Bombay Stock Exchange1 but the application to that effect was not accepted for the reason that the appellant had not taken in principle approval from the Stock Exchange and that the appellant had not even taken the approval of the shareholders for the allotment of the shares to the Asset Reconstruction Private Limited2. The above of the BSE rejecting the application of the appellant for the listing of shares was upheld and confirmed by the Securities Appellate Tribunal by the impugned. 4. In assailing the above s, the submission of learned counsel appearing for the appellant is that Section 9(1) of the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Act, 20023 permits the RARE to take measures such as conversion of any portion of debt into shares of the borrower company i.e., the appellant herein and once such power is exercised, the shares have to be listed on the Stock Exchange. Further submission of the learned counsel for the appellant is that it is only where the company, i.e., the appellant herein, proposes to increase the subscribed capital, the consent/ the resolution/approval of the shareholders is required, as mandated by Section 62(1)(c) of the Companies Act, 2013. Since in the case at hand the appellant company had not proposed to increase the subscribed capital rather it is the RARE that has done it, no such approval of the shareholders is necessary. 5. Section 9 of the SARFAESI Act authorizes RARE to convert portion of the debt into shares of the borrower company but such authority is subject to Section 62 of the Companies Act, 2013 which in turn requires a resolution of the shareholders of the company. However, when such a proposal is not by the appellant company, the approval of the shareholders may not be necessary. 6. Notwithstanding the above, in the case at hand, it is evident that the appellant company had entered into discussion with RARE 1 BSE for short 2 RARE for short 3 SARFAESI Act for short 1120 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports and it was agreed upon between the parties to convert part of its outstanding debts of Rs.32.80 Crore into equity shares. Accordingly, a resolution of the Board of Directors of the appellant company was passed to the above effect on 02.05.2018 but such an action was never endorsed by the shareholders of the company. Thereafter, the appellant company itself filed an application before the BSE on 15.05.2018 for listing of the shares i.e. 59,63,636 equity shares allotted to the RARE.