Cyril Amarchand Mangaldas, M. R. Shamshad, Amrish Kumar, Ms. Purnima Krishna, M.F. Philip, Karamveer Singh Yadav, T. R. B. Sivakumar, Sujit Kumar Mishra , Ms. Adarsh Nain, Guntur Pramod Kumar, Ms. Anzu. K. Varkey, Ms. Astha Sharma, Ms. Lihzu Shiney Konyak, Karan Sharma, Ms. Sugandha Anand , Ms. Seita Vaidyalingam, Kumar Anurag Singh, Anando Mukherjee, Mrs. Tulika Mukherjee, Shwetank Singh, Ajay Marwah, Ravindra S. Garia, Shashank Singh, Madan Chandra Karnatkya, Mrs. Vidhya, Sudeep Kumar, Gaurav Kumar Bansal, Vishnu Gupta, Ms. Nandita Bansal, Ms. Rani Mishra, Abhimanyu Tewari, Advs. for the Respondents. / of the Supreme Court Mehta, J. 1. These interlocutory applications have been preferred by the applicant M/s Shewalkar Developers Limited being aggrieved by the inaction of the respondents in deciding the application filed by the applicant seeking permission to construct a health/eco-resort on the subject land being Plot Nos. 14/3 and 14/4, falling in Sheet No. 20, Civil Station, Pachmarhi, District Hoshangabad, Madhya Pradesh. The total area of these two plots is around 59,265 sq. ft. and 49,675 sq. ft., respectively. 2. The applicant herein approached the Madhya Pradesh High Court by filing Writ Petition No. 14478 of 2006 seeking a direction to the 728 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports respondents to favourably consider the prayer of the applicant. Vide dated 22nd November, 2006, the Division Bench of Madhya Pradesh High Court permitted the applicant to approach the Central Empowered Committee(hereinafter being referred to as ‘CEC’) constituted under the directions given by this Court in Writ Petition(Civil) No. 202 of 1995. Consequently, the applicant preferred an application to the CEC seeking permission to construct the health/ eco-resort on the land mentioned above asserting that the said chunk of land was not a forest land and had been acquired under valid title deeds and thus, the prayer for permission to construct may be allowed. However, the prayer made by the applicant was not accepted whereupon, the applications under consideration came to be filed before this Court. 3. The State Government had previously taken a stand in its counter that the land in issue falls within the limits of Pachmarhi Wildlife Sanctuary and therefore, by virtue of the directions issued by the CEC vide letter dated 2nd July, 2004, no commercial activity was permissible thereupon, without the permission of this Court. 4. Much water has flown during pendency of the original application(I.A. No.2930 of 2010) which has remained pending for almost 14 years. For sake of convenience, a chronological flow chart of dates and events is narrated hereinbelow in a tabular form: - CHRONOLOGICAL FLOW CHART OF DATES AND EVENTS BACKGROUND FACTS IN RELATION TO I.A. No.2930 of 2010 S.No. DATE EVENT 1. 01.06.1977 The Government of Madhya Pradesh notified Pachmarhi Sanctuary under Section 18(1) of the Wild Life (Protection) Act, 1972 but did not specify/demarcate the area to be included/ excluded in the Sanctuary. 2. 01.05.1991 The owner of the plots in question, Mr. Dennis Torry obtained permission to sale from the Government of Madhya Pradesh as required under Clause 16 of Chapter-IV Part 1 of Revenue Book Circular issued by the Government of Madhya Pradesh.