40. An objection was raised by the learned counsel towards the identity of the Deponent to the affidavit in support of the present arbitration petition on the ground that no Power of Attorney or Letter of Authority could have been executed by the petitioner in favour of the Deponent to the Affidavit. 41. One another submission made by the counsel was that the notice for invocation of arbitration sent by the petitioner was not a valid notice as per clause 21 of the franchise agreement being contrary to the arbitration clause which provides for appointment of three arbitrators, the notice mentions appointment of a sole arbitrator and proposes names of two arbitrators, and on this ground too, the petition is liable to be dismissed. 42. Placing reliance on the of this Court in M/s B and T AG (supra) the learned senior counsel submitted that the present petition squarely falls within the dictum laid down in the said and is thus hopelessly barred by limitation. D. ANALYSIS 43. Having heard the learned counsel appearing for the parties and having perused the material on record, the following two questions fall for our consideration: I. Whether the Limitation Act, 1963 is applicable to an application for appointment of arbitrator under Section 11(6) of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996? If yes, whether the present petition is barred by limitation? II. Whether the court may refuse to make a reference under Section 11 of Act, 1996 where the claims are ex-facie and hopelessly time-barred? 94 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports i. Issue No. 1: Whether the Limitation Act, 1963 is applicable to an application for appointment of arbitrator under Section 11(6) of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996? If yes, whether the present petition is barred by limitation? 44. The basic premise behind the statutes providing for a limitation period is encapsulated by the maxim “Vigilantibus non dormientibus jura subveniunt” which translates to “the law assists those who are vigilant and not those who sleep over their rights”. The object behind having a prescribed limitation period is to ensure that there is certainty and finality to litigation and assurance to the opposite party that it will not be subject to an indefinite period of liability. Another object achieved by a fixed limitation period is to only allow those claims which are initiated before the deterioration of evidence takes place. The law of limitation does not act to extinguish the right but only bars the remedy. 45. The plain reading of Section 11(6) of the Act, 1996, which provides for the appointment of arbitrators, indicates that no time-limit has been prescribed for filing an application under the said section. However, Section 43 of the Act, 1996 provides that the Limitation Act, 1963 would apply to arbitrations as it applies to proceedings in court. The aforesaid section is reproduced hereinbelow: “43. Limitations.—(1) The Limitation Act, 1963 (36 of 1963), shall apply to arbitrations as it applies to proceedings in court. (2) For the purposes of this section and the Limitation Act, 1963 (36 of 1963), an arbitration shall be deemed to have commenced on the date referred to in section 21.