Thus, argument on the issue of maintainability of the writ petition not having been advanced before us by the parties, whatever we observe and record hereafter is merely an indication of the direction our decision would have taken, if such point were raised or argued. We may not be misunderstood of having decided a point without calling upon the parties to address on it. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1121 S. Tirupathi Rao v. M. Lingamaiah & Ors. 82. The effect of suppression of a material fact on maintainability of a writ petition is too well known. But what is important is, whether suppression of a material fact in a writ petition amounts to fraud on court and whether an issue of maintainability based on suppression can be examined if the and/or of disposal of the writ petition has attained finality by reason of no appeal being carried therefrom. 83. This Court in Meghmala v. G. Narasimha Reddy 53 observed that suppression of any material fact/document amounts to a fraud on the court and every court has an inherent power to recall its own obtained by fraud as the so obtained is non est. 84. Quite recently, in K. Jayaram v. BDA,54 this Court held: “10. It is well-settled that the jurisdiction exercised by the High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution of India is extraordinary, equitable and discretionary and it is imperative that the petitioner approaching the writ court must come with clean hands and put forward all facts before the court without concealing or suppressing anything. A litigant is bound to state all facts which are relevant to the litigation. If he withholds some vital or relevant material in to gain advantage over the other side then he would be guilty of playing fraud with the court as well as with the opposite parties which cannot be countenanced.” (emphasis ours) 85. It is also settled law that fraud is an extrinsic collateral act, which vitiates the most solemn of proceedings including judicial acts and that a plea of fraud can be set up even in a collateral proceeding. We are reminded of what this Court said in S.P. Chengalvaraya Naidu v. Jagannath:55 “The principle of ‘finality of litigation’ cannot be pressed to the extent of such an absurdity that it becomes an engine of fraud in the hands of dishonest litigants.” 53 [2010] 10 SCR 47 : (2010) 8 SCC 383 54 (2022) 12 SCC 815 55 (1994) 1 SCC 1 1122 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 86. The Division Bench (original) noted that the civil suit having been withdrawn against the State, the first respondent could not have validly attempted to obtain a direction, through the medium of the writ petition, on the strength of a decree passed in such a suit where the State was no longer a party, yet, the Division Bench (review) held the State to have practised fraud. 87. A perusal of the averments in the writ petition do not reveal any mention of the civil suit having been withdrawn against the State Government.