[Paras 58, 66, 67, 68, 109(b), 109(c)] Advocates Act, 1961 – All India Bar Committee – Legal Background – discussed. Advocates Act, 1961 – A Complete Code – Admission and enrolment of advocates: Held: The provisions of the Advocates Act indicate that it provides a complete machinery to deal with the admission and enrolment of advocates – The SBCs are vested with sufficient powers to ensure effectual and complete implementation of the enactment. [Para 26] Delegated Legislation – When can a delegated legislation be challenged: Held: It is well established in Indian Express Newspapers (Bombay) (P) Ltd v. Union of India [1985] 2 SCR 287 and State of Tamil Nadu v. P Krishnamurthy [2006] 3 SCR 396 that delegated legislation can be challenged on the following grounds: (i) lack of [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1491 Gaurav Kumar v. Union of India and Ors. legislative competence to make delegated legislation; (ii) violation of fundamental rights guaranteed under the Constitution; (iii) violation of any provision of the Constitution; (iv) failure to conform to the statute under which it is made or exceeding the limits of authority conferred by the enabling Act; (v) repugnance to any other enactment; and (vi) manifest arbitrariness. [Para 28] Constitution of India – Arts.265 and 366 – Power to levy fees: Held: (i) a fee is an impost in terms of Article 366(28); (ii) the expression “tax” occurring in Article 265 means all imposts, including fees and therefore any fee must be levied by the authority of a valid law; (iii) fees being a compulsory exaction of money, the power to levy fees cannot be implied; (iv) delegation of the power to levy fees to a delegate of the legislature should be specifically provided for under the parent legislation; and (v) the delegate must strictly act within the parameters of the legislative policy laid down by the parent legislation when levying fees and taxes. [Para 34] Constitution of India – Advocates Act, 1961 – s.24(1)(f) – Enrolment fee meets the characteristic of a Regulatory Fees: Held: The State grants a licence to regulate a particular trade, business, or profession – These regulatory activities entail a duty on behalf of the State or its instrumentalities to supervise, regulate, and monitor that particular trade, business, or profession – Because such activities require the State to expend public resources, the State can charge licence fees to defray the administrative costs – The enrolment fee stipulated by Section 24(1)(f) of Advocates Act meets the characteristic of a regulatory fee. [Paras 35, 38] Advocates Act, 1961 – s.24(1)(f) – Bar Councils cannot levy fees beyond the express stipulation of law: Held: Section 24(1)(f) is a fiscal regulatory provision and has to be construed strictly – Parliament has prescribed the enrolment fees in the exercise of its sovereign legislative powers – The SBCs and the BCI, being delegates of Parliament, cannot alter or modify the fiscal policy laid down by Parliament – The delegate can create substantive rights and obligations only to the extent to which the parent enactment empowers the delegate – By prescribing additional fees at the time of enrolment, the SBCs have created new substantive obligations not contemplated by the provisions of the Advocates Act – The basis for the fees imposed by the SBCs has to be traceable to the provisions of the statute – 1492 [2024] 7 S.C.R.