Function of the court while sanctioning the compromise or arrangement is limited to oversee that the compromise or arrangement arrived at is lawful and that the affairs of the company were not conducted in a manner prejudicial to the interest of its members or to public interest, that is to say, it should not be unfair or contrary to public policy or unconscionable. Once these things are satisfied the scheme has to be sanctioned as per the compromise arrived at between the parties. It is an instrument which transfers the properties and would fall within the definition of Section 2(1) of the Bombay Stamp Act which includes every document by which any right or liability is transferred…” The above nowhere states that Form No. 5 is an instrument. The reliance of the appellant here, on the above , seems to be misconceived. An of the Court sanctioning a scheme of amalgamation cannot be equated to Form No. 5. Any increase in the share capital by a company is neither required to be confirmed by the Court in view of Section 94(2), nor does the Registrar exercise any discretion, provided Form No. 5 is duly filled. On the other hand, learned senior counsel for the respondent has relied on New Egerton Woollen Mills, In re, 1899 SCC OnLine All 22, where the Allahabad High Court was faced with a similar question; as to whether stamp duty is payable on the document whereby alterations were made to Articles of Association. A Full Bench of the High Court (in the context of the Indian Companies Act, 1882) answered in the negative with the following reasoning: 350 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “... we are satisfied that the document which was submitted to the Registrar of Joint Stock Companies was submitted to him under s. 79 to be recorded by him, and not, as he states, for registration. The document was not new articles of association, or articles of association at all within the meaning of the Indian Companies Act. It was a copy of the special resolution passed by the company, notifying to the Registrar, and through him to the world concerned, that the regulations of the company, which were covered by the resolution, would be the regulations by which the company would in future be bound. These regulations, even though they were new regulations to the exclusion of all the existing regulations of the company, are, by the second paragraph of s. 76, to be deemed to be regulations of the company of the same validity as if they had been originally contained in the articles of association. The law does not say that they are to be deemed articles of association, but expressly declares that they are to be deemed regulations of the same validity as if they had been contained in the articles of association. The document which has been forwarded to us is certainly not one which falls within art. 8 of sch. I of the Stamp Act of 1879, and is not liable to stamp-duty as provided by that article.” 9.