9. The Best Value Chem. Ltd. (hereinafter, “BVC”) is an entity involved in the business of manufacturing aroma chemicals co-owned by the AMP and JRS Groups. The Premji Group had initiated a proposal to buyout BVC and indicated that the deal could only go through if the litigations filed against BVC were withdrawn. Therefore, the parties thought it fit to resolve all the issues between them once and for all with the understanding that the AMP Group would completely takeover various entities and that the JRS and SRG Groups would co-own other entities. 10. During negotiations that preceded the execution of the FAA, the following events/communications took place; • Vide emails dated 12.12.2019 and 02.01.2020, several internal documents required for the valuation of Millenium and Deegee were shared by Mr. Pankaj Agarwal with the AMP Group wherein a copy was marked to Mr. Kalpesh Parmar. • Vide email dated 14.01.2020 sent to the AMP Group, Mr. Kalpesh Parmar confirmed that the matters pertaining to Millenium and Deegee even after its valuation may have to be discussed with Mr. Samarjitsinh (hereinafter, “Respondent No. 9”) of the SRG Group before finalisation. The said excerpt from the contents of the email are reproduced hereinbelow: “…The pending details from Pankaj, if I correctly understand then it is related to documents of Millenium and Deegee, Even if we consider both of it to be treated separately, it can be done because even after valuation, the matter needs to be discussed out with Samarjitsinh before finalising. Therefore, in the binding agreement you can put necessary points covering both the properties and till it is not resolved we can work out some alternate solution so that both the groups are covered properly….” (Emphasis supplied) [2024] 9 S.C.R. 903 Ajay Madhusudan Patel & Ors. v. Jyotrindra S. Patel & Ors. • A joint meeting was arranged by Mr. Kalpesh Parmar and attended by Mr. Ashit Patel of the AMP Group and Respondent No.9 of the SRG Group. • Vide email dated 25.01.2020 sent to the AMP Group, Mr. Kalpesh Parmar suggested that the valuation of Millenium be finalized in consultation with the Respondent No.9 of the SRG Group. The said excerpt from the contents of the email are reproduced hereinbelow: “…In view of releasing above deadlock situation, I am suggesting that we include in FAA binding methodology to resolve it. For Chandan Sanjaybhai, Jagdishbhai & AMP can sit and decide the value within __ days from execution of FAA, Similarly for Millenium Sanjaybhai, Samarjitsinh & AMP can sit and close it along with issue of residential flats. This can also be done within __ days from execution of FAA. In the meantime, whatever valuation/s so far JRS has given on Chandan & Millenium will stand withdrawn, so nothing is there on table from JRS side on the value of Chandan & Millenium. Therefore, we can proceed to close on FAA & Escrow agreement on Monday. If you can flip this suggestion with AMP, I can try to convince Sanjaybhai too…” (Emphasis supplied) 11.