As such, under the scheme of the Arbitration Act, no distinction is made nor any differential treatment is to be given to the Government, while considering an application for grant of stay of a money decree in proceedings under Section 34 of the Arbitration Act. As we have already mentioned above, the reference to CPC in Section 36 of the Arbitration Act is only to guide the court as to what conditions can be imposed, and the same have to be consistent with the provisions of the Arbitration Act.” (emphasis supplied) Therefore, the Arbitration Act does not provide different or special treatment to the government in arbitrations by or against the government.103 E. The principle of equality applies at the stage of appointment of arbitrators i. Arbitration as a quasi-judicial function 59. According to well-established legal principles, an act of a statutory authority will be a quasi-judicial if: (i) the authority is empowered 103 Pam Developments Pvt Ltd (supra) [27-28] [“28. Section 36 of the Arbitration Act also does not provide for any special treatment to the Government while dealing with grant of stay in an application under proceedings of Section 34 of the Arbitration Act. Keeping the aforesaid in consideration and also the provisions of Section 18 providing for equal treatment of parties, it would, in our view, make it clear that there is no exceptional treatment to be given to the Government while considering the application for stay under Section 36 filed by the Government in proceedings under Section 34 of the Arbitration Act.”] [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2225 Central Organisation for Railway Electrification v. M/s ECI SPIC SMO MCML (JV) A Joint Venture Company under a statute; (ii) the mandate is to decide disputes arising out of a claim made by one party which is opposed by another party; and (iii) the body which decides has to determine the rights of contesting parties who are opposed to each other.104 A quasi-judicial function is required to be exercised judicially, that is, following the principles of natural justice because of its impact on the rights of persons affected.105 In Jaswant Sugar Mills Ltd. v. Lakshmi Chand,106 a Constitution Bench has identified the following criteria to determine whether an act is judicial: “(1) it is in substance a determination upon investigation of a question by the application objective standards to facts found in the light of pre-existing legal rules; (2) it declares rights or imposes upon parties obligations affecting their civil rights; and (3) that the investigation is subject to certain procedural attributes contemplating an opportunity of presenting its case to a party, ascertainment of facts by means of evidence if a dispute be on questions of fact, and if the dispute be on question of law on the presentation of legal argument, and a decision resulting in the disposal of the matter on findings based upon those questions of law and fact.” 60. An arbitrator’s relationship with parties is contractual. The rights and obligations of an arbitrator are principally the result of the contractual relations with the parties.107 However, the position under common law is that the rights and duties of an arbitrator are derived from a conjunction of contract and quasi-judicial status granted by national laws.