According to the informant, at about 08:00 PM, appellant Ram Singh accompanied by one Lala Ram came to his residence. He stated that both of them were residents of his village. Ram Singh was holding a country made pistol in his right hand. As per version in the first information, Lala Ram had instigated Ram Singh by loudly saying that these people were creating disturbances; so kill them. Ram Singh fired on the informant but he slipped below the cot. The bullet hit the left breast of his mother Dulli who cried aloud saying that she was dead. According to the informant, they also cried. Ram Singh and Lala Ram ran away towards the north. Mother died immediately due to the gunshot wound. Informant stated that the incident was seen by his brother Desh Raj and by his neighbours Lala Ram and Man Singh in the light of the lantern. On hearing the firing, many people living nearby came. They had seen the accused running. The mother was lying dead on bed. The informant further stated that about one and a half months back, there was a scuffle betfween his son Baan Singh and the appellant Ram Singh which matter was duly reported to the local police station. Lala Ram and Ram Singh belongs to the same party. Because of this, they came to the door of his residence when on the instigation of Lala Ram, Ram Singh fired a shot due to which his mother Dulli died. 3.1. The first information as dictated by the informant, was reduced to writing by the scribe Sunder Lal, another brother of PW-1. The said first information was registered as FIR bearing No. 252/1982. 4. Police investigated the crime and on completion of the investigation submitted chargesheet charging appellant Ram Singh of having committed offence under Sections 301 and 302 of the IPC as well as under Section 307/34 IPC. On the other hand, the co-accused 672 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Lala Ram was charged of having committed offence under Section 307/34 IPC. 4.1. To prove its case, prosecution examined six witnesses. After considering the evidence and materials on record, the Sessions Court convicted the appellant under Section 301 read with Section 302 IPC and also under Section 307 IPC. However, the other accused Lala Ram was given the benefit of doubt and accordingly was acquitted. 4.2. At this stage, we may mention that there are two Lala Ram in this case. One is Lala Ram, son of Prahalad Singh who is PW-3 and the other is Lala Ram, son of Dhanna Ram Yadav who was named as accused number 2 and acquitted by the trial court. 5. As noticed above, the trial court convicted the appellant under the aforesaid provisions of IPC and sentenced him accordingly. The co- accused Lala Ram, son of Dhanna Ram Yadav, was acquitted. The appeal filed by the appellant before the High Court was dismissed. Consequently, his conviction and sentence were confirmed. Submissions 6.