Likewise, there is no mark on the ballot which would indicate that the person who cast the vote would be identified. The third ground which evinces a situation where the mark is placed in such a manner so as to make it doubtful for which candidate the vote has been cast would not arise on a plain perusal of the ballots. Even if the mark which was placed by the Presiding Officer is taken into consideration, that mark does not create any doubt about the candidate in favour of whom the vote was cast. The vote was cast by placing a rubber stamp on the upper half of the ballot and hence the ink mark which was placed on the bottom half by the Presiding Officer would be of no consequence. The ballots had not been 708 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports defaced when the Presiding Officer put his mark at the bottom. The ballots left no manner of doubt about the candidate for whom the ballot was cast. But that apart, it is evident that the Presiding Officer is guilty of a serious misdemeanour in doing what he did in his role and capacity as Presiding Officer. 31. As stated above, Regulation 6(1) requires the nomination of a councillor who is not a candidate at the election to preside over the meeting. This provision has been made to ensure that the person who acts as Presiding Officer would do so with objectivity. It is evident that the Presiding Officer in the present case has made a deliberate effort to deface the eight ballots which were cast in favour of the appellant so as to secure a result at the election by which the eighth respondent would be declared as the elected candidate. 32. Before this Court yesterday, the Presiding Officer made a solemn statement that he had done so because he found that each of the eight ballots was defaced. It is evident that none of the ballots had been defaced. As a matter of fact, it is also material to note that after the votes are cast, the ballot is folded in a vertical manner to ensure that if the ink on the rubber stamp appears on the corresponding half of the ballot it will appear alongside the name of the candidate for whom the vote has been cast. The conduct of the Presiding Officer must be deprecated at two levels. Firstly, by his conduct, he has unlawfully altered the course of the Mayor’s election. Secondly, in making a solemn statement before this Court on 19 February 2024, the Presiding Officer has expressed a patent falsehood, despite a prior warning, for which he must be held accountable. 33. For the above reasons, we have come to the conclusion that the result, which was declared by Shri Anil Masih, the Presiding Officer is plainly contrary to law and would have to be set aside. We accordingly. 34. During the course of these proceedings, the eighth respondent who was elected as Mayor has tendered his resignation.