Therefore, it is all the more necessary that the biosafety dossier be put in the public domain so as to enable independent experts to review the same. 20.7 It was next submitted that no chronic/long term studies have been conducted on HT mustard. It was stressed that the 2046 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports petitioners’ concern is the irreversible risk of contamination that the country faces, if environmental release of GMOs is permitted in the absence of any chronic studies vis-à-vis human health, livestock, environment, biodiversity etc. It was pointed out that Union of India was silent as to the measures undertaken to ensure non-contamination. The Union of India was also silent about the measures undertaken in respect of labelling of GM foods, in light of the fact that no chronic studies have been commissioned as regards the consumption of GM foods. Also, the Union of India was silent as to the liability of the applicant and GEAC for potential losses to farmers and consumers on account of irreversible contamination. 20.8 In this regard, the TEC Report was referred to, wherein it has been stated that currently eighteen new food crop species, for which applications for field trial have been received in the Indian system, are - cauliflower, cabbage, corn, rice, wheat, tomato, groundnut, potato, sorghum, okra, brinjal, mustard, papaya, watermelon, sugarcane, etc. Also, the growth of GM crop would impact organic food producers and given the difficulties in segregation of GM and non-GM foods, it would be difficult to meet the criteria for organic food. This was said to have potential adverse impact on export of organic food, as the importers would closely examine the conditions under which organic food is being grown and any concern about contamination could lead to an adverse impact and loss of markets for organic food producers. 20.9 It was further submitted that GEAC, the regulator, has failed to deal with the illegal plantation of HT Bt cotton and the same is being grown in the country illegally on commercial basis. In fact, the intervenor in the present proceedings, Shetkari Sangathan, has also been illegally planting Bt brinjal and has been encouraging farmers to do so, and GEAC has failed to check the same. 20.10 It was next submitted that large quantities of GM processed oil was being imported in the form of canola oil sourced largely from GM canola seeds and soyabean oil sourced from GM soyabean seeds. It was argued that this is in violation of the law. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2047 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. 20.11 Section 22 of the FSSA, 2006 prohibits manufacture, distribution, sale or import of any GMO products, except in accordance with the regulations which the Central Government may notify. This has been a subject matter of a of this Court in Writ Petition (Civil) No.173 of 2006, Vandana Shiva vs. Union of India, disposed of on 11.08.2017, wherein it was recorded that there was no notification or regulation allowing any activity in connection with GE and modified food and such activity was permissible only under the regulations framed under Section 22 of the FSSA, 2006.