These are: (i) An intervention is warranted when the High Court’s approach or reasoning is deemed perverse. This occurs when the High Court, based on suspicion and surmises, rejects evidence or when the acquittal is primarily rooted in an exaggerated adherence to the rule of giving the benefit of doubt in favour of the accused. (ii) Another circumstance for intervention arises when the acquittal would lead to a significant miscarriage of justice. This refers to situations where the High Court, through a cursory examination of evidence, severs the connection between the accused and the crime. 18. An erroneous or perverse approach to the proven facts of a case and/or ignorance of some of the vital circumstances would amount to a grave and substantial miscarriage of justice. In such a case, this Court will be justified in exercising its extraordinary jurisdiction to undo the injustice mete out to the victims of a crime. 19. Keeping these principles in mind, we proceed to analyse the legal evidence on record and how the High Court appears to have fallen in an error, at least partially, if not in entirety. 1 [2017] 5 SCR 525 : (2017) 6 SCC 263. 2 [2022] 3 SCR 1046 : (2022) 3 SCC 471. [2024] 2 S.C.R. 1047 State of Punjab v. Gurpreet Singh & Ors Acquittal qua Gurpreet Singh (Main Accused) 20. With a view to establish charges against Gurpreet Singh, the prosecution relied on the testimonies of Gursewak Singh (P.W.2), Harmandeep Kaur (P.W.3) and Hari Mittar (P.W.9). A brief summarization of their testimonies is necessitated hereunder. 21. P.W.2, Gursewak Singh, the deceased’s husband, is the Complainant in FIR No. 100/2012. He provided a detailed account of the incident to the police, recounting that his wife, who was standing on the stairs, informed him of someone calling from outside the main gate. Upon opening the door of the drawing room, he witnessed Gurpreet Singh armed with a pistol. Gurpreet Singh and the unidentified person (Jagdeep Singh, named later on during the testimony) had entered the house by scaling the wall of the house. While P.W.2 was standing at the drawing-room door, Gurpreet Singh aimed the pistol at Amarjit Kaur, shot her under the right ear causing her to fall. P.W.2 raised the alarm, and upon reaching the main gate, he saw Gurpreet Singh, along with Harpreet Singh, Kashmira Singh, and Jagdeep Singh, making their escape in an Innova car. P.W.2 asserted that the motive behind the murder was related to his elder daughter, Kirandeep Kaur, who was earlier married to Gurpreet Singh and had relocated to Australia. Due to the divorce from Kirandeep, Gurpreet Singh’s plans to settle in Australia were thwarted, and he held the deceased Amarjit Kaur responsible for the divorce. 22. P.W.3, Harmandeep Kaur, the younger daughter of the deceased, recounted that she, along with her brother and mother, was on the terrace of the house. Amarjit Kaur, hence deceased, while descending the stairs, informed Gursewak Singh P.W.2 of the call. P.W.2 opened the drawing room door to check the main gate.