5. We have gone through the provisions of the said Act and in our opinion the decision of the courts below is not correct. Section 5 of the said Act provides for the owner to be liable for certain prior liabilities and Section 29 states that the said Act will have an overriding effect over all other enactments. This Act only deals with the liabilities of a company which is nationalised and there is no provision therein which in any way affects the liability of a guarantor who is bound by the deed of guarantee executed by it. The High Court has referred to a decision of this Court in Maharashtra SEB v. Official Liquidator [Maharashtra SEB v. Official Liquidator, (1982) 3 SCC 358] where the [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2161 BRS Ventures Investments Ltd. v. SREI Infrastructure Finance Ltd. & Anr. liability of the guarantor in a case where liability of the principal debtor was discharged under the Insolvency law or the Company law, was considered. It was held in this case that in view of the unequivocal guarantee, such liability of the guarantor continues and the creditor can realise the same from the guarantor in view of the language of Section 128 of the Contract Act, 1872 as there is no discharge under Section 134 of that Act. 6. In our opinion, the principle of the aforesaid decision of this Court is equally applicable in the present case. The right of the appellant to recover money from Respondents 1, 2 and 3 who stood guarantors arises out of the terms of the deeds of guarantee which are not in any way superseded or brought to a naught merely because the appellant may not have been able to recover money from the principal borrower. It may here be added that even as a result of the Nationalisation Act the liability of the principal borrower does not come to an end. It is only the mode of recovery which is referred to in the said Act.” 124. In Kaupthing Singer & Friedlander Ltd. [Kaupthing Singer & Friedlander Ltd. (No. 2), In re, (2012) 1 AC 804 : (2011) 3 WLR 939 : (2012) 1 All ER 883, paras 11, 12, 53-54] the UK Supreme Court reviewed a large number of previous authorities on the concept of double proof i.e. recovery from guarantors in the context of insolvency proceedings. The Court held that: (AC p. 814, para 11) “11. The function of the rule is not to prevent a double proof of the same debt against two separate estates (that is what insolvency practitioners call “double dip”). The rule prevents a double proof of what is in substance the same debt being made against the same estate, leading to the payment of a double dividend out of one estate. It is for that reason sometimes called the rule against double dividend. In the simplest case of suretyship (where the surety has neither given nor been provided with security, and has an unlimited liability) there is a triangle of rights 2162 [2024] 7 S.C.R.