The above view has been consistently endorsed by later decisions of this Court29. Notably in Tanya Malik v Registrar General of High Court30, in the context of recruitment to the post of District Judge, it was held that prescribing minimum marks for interview is not only desirable but also necessary. More recently in Kavita Khamboj (supra), a 3-judge bench upheld the requirement of 50% minimum marks in interview for promotion as District Judges. Making a succinct distinction between judicial appointments at the junior level and higher levels of judiciary, this Court speaking through Chief Justice DY Chandrachud observed the following: “44….the interview in such cases is not being held at the very threshold of the service, while making recruitments at the junior-most level. Rather, the interview is being held to fill up a senior position in the District Judiciary, that of an Additional District and Sessions Judge. Such 28 [1982] 1 SCR 320 : (1981) 4 SCC 159 29 KH Siraj v High Court of Kerela (2006) 6 SCC 395; State of UP v Rafiquiddin, 1987 Supp SCC 410; Taniya Malik v Registrar General of the High Court of Delhi (2018) 14 SCC 129; Pranav Verma v The Registrar General of High Court (2020) 15 SCC 377 30 (2018) 14 SCC 129 [2024] 6 S.C.R. 571 Abhimeet Sinha & Ors. v. High Court of Judicature at Patna & Ors. officers, based on their prior experience, must be expected to demonstrate a proficiency in judicial work borne from their long years of service. The purpose of the interview for officers in that class is to assess the officer in terms of the ability to meet the duties required for performing the role of an Additional District and Sessions Judge. Consequently, there would be a reasonable and valid basis, if the High Court were to do so, to impose a requirement of a minimum eligibility or cut-off both in the written test and in the viva voce separately.” 57. The recruitment procedure should not only test the candidate’s intellect but also their personality, for appointment to posts in the higher judiciary. The writ petitioners have placed great reliance on the in Ajay Hasia (supra) where it is canvassed that providing for more than 15% of the total marks for interview, is arbitrary and constitutionally invalid. In Ajay Hasia (supra) the challenge was to the validity of admissions made to the Regional Engineering College for the academic year 1979-80. Out of 150 total marks, 50 marks were earmarked for interview. Commenting on the validity of viva voce as a permissible test, the Court observed thus: “But, despite all this criticism, the oral interview method continues to be very much in vogue as a supplementary test for assessing the suitability of candidates wherever test of personal traits is considered essential. Its relevance as a test for determining suitability based on personal characteristics has been recognised in a number of decisions of this Court which are binding upon us.” 58. It was further noted that: “The oral interview test is undoubtedly not a very satisfactory test for assessing and evaluating the capacity and calibre of candidates, but in the absence of any better test for measuring personal characteristics and traits, the oral interview test must, at the present stage, be regarded as not irrational or irrelevant though it is subjective and based on first impression, its result is influenced by many uncertain factors and it is capable of abuse.