A copy of the warrant must be immediately supplied to the convict, and iv. After issuing a notice and before issuing a warrant of execution, if the convict is not represented by an advocate, legal aid should be provided to him. As held by this Court, the procedure described above is in conformity with Article 21 of the Constitution of India. 40. To avoid the situation that arose in this case, we need to elaborate further upon the directions already issued by the Allahabad High Court. When a death sentence is confirmed or the High Court imposes a death sentence, a writ/ of the High Court is always sent to the Sessions Court. When the Sessions Court receives intimation of such , the disposed of sessions case must be taken on board by the Sessions Court, and notice should be issued to the Public Prosecutor/investigating agency to ascertain whether the convicts have challenged the of the High Court. Depending upon the rules of procedure of the concerned court, the proceeding can be numbered as a Misc. Application in the disposed of case. If the Public Prosecutor informs the Sessions Court that the challenge before this Court is pending, the Sessions Court should pass no further . As soon as the intimation of confirmation of the death sentence by this Court is received, the disposed of case should be taken on the cause list and notice should be issued to the convicts through the Jail Superintendent calling upon the convicts to disclose whether they intend to file review petition and/or mercy petition. It is the duty of the State/investigating agency to inform the Sessions Court about the outcome of the review and mercy petitions by filing a proper application in the disposed of case. The reason is that it is the responsibility of the State/investigating agency to ensure that the death penalty is executed. To ensure that there is no delay, the Sessions Court, after confirmation of the death sentence by the Court, shall periodically fix dates in the disposed of case so that an up-to-date report can be submitted on behalf of the State Government/investigating 610 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports agency through the Public Prosecutor. It will be the duty of the State Government/investigating agency to make an application and inform the Sessions Court about the rejection of the mercy petitions made to the Constitutional authorities so that the Sessions Court can take further steps. Such information shall be furnished by making a regular application on the judicial side and not by sending a letter. After such an application is filed before the Court, notice should be issued to the convicts informing them that the Court is proposing to issue a warrant for executing the death sentence. After hearing the convict and/or his advocate or legal aid advocate provided to the convict, the Court should pass an directing issuance of the warrant of execution, a copy of which shall be immediately forwarded to the convict. As directed earlier by this Court, the warrant must contain a precise date and time of execution.