Thereafter, in to consolidate and amend the law relating to domestic arbitration, international commercial arbitration, enforcement of foreign arbitral awards and to define the law relating to conciliation, taking into account the said UNCITRAL Model Law and Rules, the Act, 1996 was enacted. 22. The Act, 1996 is divided into four parts. Part I which is headed “Arbitration”; Part II which is headed “Enforcement of Certain Foreign Awards”; Part III which is headed “Conciliation” and Part IV being “Supplementary Provisions”. 23. There was no concept of “juridical seat” or “situs of arbitration” under the Act, 1940, rather the jurisdiction of courts was determined on the basis of the definition of “court” under Section 2(c) of the Act, 1940 [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1167 M/s Arif Azim Co. Ltd. v. M/s Micromax Informatics Fze which was defined as any civil court having jurisdiction to decide questions forming the subject-matter of the reference to arbitration if the same had been the subject-matter of a suit. 24. Under the UNCITRAL Model Law on International Commercial Arbitration (as adopted by the United Nations Commission on International Trade Law on 21-6-1985) which forms the basis of the Act, 1996, the concept of ‘place of arbitration’ or ‘seat of arbitration’ was encompassed in Article 20 which reads as under: - “20. Place of arbitration.— (1) The parties are free to agree on the place of arbitration. Failing such agreement, the place of arbitration shall be determined by the Arbitral Tribunal having regard to the circumstances of the case, including the convenience of the parties. (2) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (1) of this article, the Arbitral Tribunal may, unless otherwise agreed by the parties, meet at any place it considers appropriate for consultation among its members, for hearing witnesses, experts or the parties, or for inspection of goods, other property or documents.” 25. When the Act, 1996 was enacted replacing the earlier Act, 1940, a new provision of Section 20 was inserted by the legislature which was absent in the earlier Act, 1940. The said provision reads as under: - “20. Place of arbitration.— (1) The parties are free to agree on the place of arbitration. (2) Failing any agreement referred to in sub-section (1), the place of arbitration shall be determined by the Arbitral Tribunal having regard to the circumstances of the case, including the convenience of the parties. (3) Notwithstanding sub-section (1) or sub-section (2), the Arbitral Tribunal may, unless otherwise agreed by the parties, meet at any place it considers appropriate for consultation among its members, for hearing witnesses, experts or the parties, or for inspection of documents, goods or other property.” 1168 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 26. A cursory reading of the aforesaid provision would reveal that it is a replication of Article 20 of the UNCITRAL Model Law whereunder, the place or seat of arbitration has been given pride and primacy. However, despite the aforesaid inclusion, the legislature retained the definition of “court” from the Act, 1940 in Section 2(e) of the Act, 1996 with a minor tweak that instead of any civil court of the lowest grade competent to entertain the subject-matter, now only the principal civil court or the High Court of original jurisdiction which is competent to entertain the subject-matter shall have jurisdiction.