In P A Inamdar v. State of Maharashtra, this Court held that the considerations for granting recognition to a minority educational institution are subject to two overriding conditions: (i) the recognition is not denied solely on the ground of the educational institution being one belonging to minority; and (ii) the regulation is neither aimed at nor has the effect of depriving the institution of its minority status.80 73 In re Kerala Education Bill (supra) [31] 74 Very Rev Mother Provincial (supra) [10] 75 All Saints High School v. Government of AP (1980) 2 SCC 478 [63]; Dayanand Anglo Vedic (DAV) College Trust and Management Society v. State of Maharashtra (2013) 4 SCC 14 [32] 76 Ahmedabad St Xavier’s College Society (supra) [90] 77 Very Rev Mother Provincial (supra) [10]; St Xavier’s College (supra) [18] 78 Sidhajbhai Sabhai v. State of Bombay, 1962 SCC OnLine SC 150 [15]; P A Inamdar v. State of Maharashtra (2005) 6 SCC 537 [94], [122] 79 Ahmedabad St. Xavier’s College Society (supra) [176] (Justice KK Mathew and Justice Y V Chandrachud) 80 P A Inamdar (supra) [103] 406 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 61. In Ahmedabad St Xavier’s College Society v. State of Gujarat,81 the issue before a Bench of nine Judges was whether religious and linguistic minorities who have the right to establish and administer educational institutions of their choice have a fundamental right to affiliation or recognition. Chief Justice A N Ray held that minority educational institutions have no fundamental right to recognition. The learned Chief Justice observed that the primary purpose of recognition is to ensure that students reading in minority educational institutions have “qualifications in the shape of degrees necessary for a useful career in life.”82 He further observed that a minority educational institution seeking affiliation must follow the statutory educational standards and efficiency, the prescribed courses of study, courses of instruction, qualification of teachers, and educational qualifications for entry of students.83 However, the learned Chief Justice held that a law providing for recognition should not result in abridgement of the right of linguistic and religious minorities to administer and establish educational institutions of their choice under Article 30(1).84 62. Justice K K Mathew (writing for himself and Justice Y V Chandrachud), in his concurring opinion stated that the principle of juridical equality ensures the “co-existence of several types of schools and colleges including affiliated colleges” with proportionate equal encouragement and support from the State.85 The learned judge further held that the State’s interest in the education of religious minorities would be served if minority educational institutions impart secular education accompanied by religious education. He also observed: “145. The State's interest in secular education may be defined broadly as an interest in ensuring that children within its boundaries acquire a minimum level of competency in skills, as well as a minimum amount of information and knowledge in certain subjects. Without such skill and knowledge, an individual will be at a severe disadvantage both in participating in democratic self-Government and in earning a living.