The carve out clause, in the second part, is invoked by the service providers to exclude the complainants from availing benefits under the Act. The onus of proving that the person falls within the carve out must necessarily rest on the service provider and not the complainant. This is in sync with the general principle embodied in Section 101 and 102 of the Evidence Act that ‘one who pleads must prove’. Since it is always the service [2024] 6 S.C.R. 225 Shriram Chits (India) Private Limited Earlier Known as Shriram Chits (K) Pvt. Ltd v. Raghachand Associates provider who pleads that the service was obtained for a commercial purpose, the onus of proving the same would have to be borne by it. Further, it cannot be forgotten that the Consumer Protection Act is a consumer-friendly and beneficial legislation intended to address grievances of consumers.6 Moreover, a negative burden cannot be placed on the complainant to show that the service available was not for a commercial purpose. 21. Having held that the onus to prove that the service was obtained for a commercial purpose is on the service provider, we may clarify the standard of proof that has to be met in to discharge the onus. The standard of proof has to be measured against a ‘preponderance of probabilities’. The test to determine whether service obtained qualified as a commercial purpose is no longer res integra in view of this Court’s decision in Lilavathi v. Kiritlal (supra). Para 19 sets out the principles on which it must be determined whether the onus of proving ‘commercial purpose’ has been properly discharged by the service provider. 22. If and only if, the service provider discharges its onus of showing that the service was availed, in fact for a commercial purpose, does the onus shift back to the complainant to bring its case within the third part, i.e. the Explanation (a) to Section 2(7) – to show that the service was obtained exclusively for the purpose of earning its livelihood by means of self-employment. 23. In this background, we must consider the plea of Sri Shailesh Madiyal that the complainant has not pleaded nor proved that the service was obtained for earning his livelihood through the means of self- employment. His argument relates to the third part of the definition of consumer. The question of inquiring into the third part will only arise if the service provider succeeds in crossing the second part by discharging its onus and proving that the service obtained was for a commercial purpose. Unless the service provider discharges its onus, the onus does not shift back to the complainant to show that the service obtained was exclusively for earning its livelihood through the means of self-employment. In the facts of this case, the OP has merely pleaded in its version that the service was obtained 6 National Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Harsolia Motors and Ors. (2023) 8 SCC 362. 226 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports for a commercial purpose.