Thus the provisions of the 1260 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Act depriving the divorced Muslim women of such a right to maintenance from her husband and providing for her maintenance to be paid by the former husband only for the period of iddat and thereafter to make her run from pillar to post in search of her relatives one after the other and ultimately to knock at the doors of the Wakf Board does not appear to be reasonable and fair substitute of the provisions of Section 125 CrPC. Such deprivation of the divorced Muslim women of their right to maintenance from their former husbands under the beneficial provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure which are otherwise available to all other women in India cannot be stated to have been effected by a reasonable, right, just and fair law and, if these provisions are less beneficial than the provisions of Chapter IX of the Code of Criminal Procedure, a divorced Muslim woman has obviously been unreasonably discriminated and got out of the protection of the provisions of the general law as indicated under the Code which are available to Hindu, Buddhist, Jain, Parsi or Christian women or women belonging to any other community. The provisions prima facie, therefore, appear to be violative of Article 14 of the Constitution mandating equality and equal protection of law to all persons otherwise similarly circumstanced and also violative of Article 15 of the Constitution which prohibits any discrimination on the ground of religion as the Act would obviously apply to Muslim divorced women only and solely on the ground of their belonging to the Muslim religion. It is well settled that on a rule of construction, a given statute will become “ultra vires” or “unconstitutional” and, therefore, void, whereas on another construction which is permissible, the statute remains effective and operative the court will prefer the latter on the ground that the legislature does not intend to enact unconstitutional laws. We think, the latter interpretation should be accepted and, therefore, the interpretation placed by us results in upholding the validity of the Act. It is well settled that when by appropriate reading of an enactment the validity of the Act can be upheld, such interpretation is accepted by courts and not the other way round.” [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1261 Mohd. Abdul Samad v. The State of Telangana & Anr. While the Court prima facie observed the said provisions to be violative of Articles 14 and 15 of the Constitution of India, the latter interpretation, seeking to uphold the validity, was eventually adopted and the 1986 Act was read down to not foreclose the secular rights of a divorced Muslim woman. 18. The position that the rights under Section 125 of CrPC 1973 would also be accessible to a divorced Muslim woman was substantially reiterated in Shabana Bano v. Imran Khan (2010) 1 SCC 666, whereby this Court, through a cumulative reading of the decision in Danial Latifi (supra), reached the said conclusion.