But if the parties choose to reduce the contract to writing, this implication of law is excluded by their express bargain, and the document will be the sole evidence of its terms. In such a case the deposit and the document both form integral parts of the transaction and are essential ingredients in the creation of the mortgage. It follows that in such a case the document which constitutes the bargain regarding security requires registration under Section 17 of the Registration Act, 1908, as a non-testamentary instrument creating an interest in immovable property, where the value of such property is one hundred rupees and upwards. If a document of this character is not registered it cannot be used in the evidence at all and the transaction itself cannot be proved by oral evidence either.” xxx 14.2. But the question is whether a mortgage by deposit of title deeds is required to be done by an instrument at all. In our opinion, it may be effected in a specified town by the debtor delivering to his creditor documents of title to immovable property with the intent to create a security thereon. No instrument is required to be drawn for this purpose. However, the parties may choose to have a memorandum prepared only showing deposit of the title deeds. In such a case also registration is not required. But in a case in which the memorandum recorded in writing creates rights, liabilities or extinguishes those, the same requires registration. 1020 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 14.3. In our opinion, the letter of the Finance Commissioner would apply in cases where the instrument of deposit of title deeds incorporates the terms and conditions in addition to what flows from the mortgage by deposit of title deeds. But in that case there has to be an instrument which is an integral part of the transaction regarding the mortgage by deposit of title deeds. A document merely recording a transaction which is already concluded and which does not create any rights and liabilities does not require registration. 14.4. Nothing has been brought on record to show existence of any instrument which has created or extinguished any right or liability. In the case in hand, the original deeds have just been deposited with the Bank. In the face of it, we are of the opinion that the charge of mortgage can be entered into revenue record in respect of mortgage by deposit of the title deeds and for that, an instrument of mortgage is not necessary. A mortgage by deposit of the title deeds further does not require registration. Hence, the question of payment of registration fee and stamp duty does not arise. xxx 14.5. By way of abundant caution and at the cost of repetition we may, however, observe that when the borrower and the creditor choose to reduce the contract into writing and if such a document is the sole evidence of the terms between them, the document shall form an integral part of the transaction and the same shall require registration under Section 17 of the Registration Act.” (emphasis supplied) 29.