That even if there were some safeguards and guardrails, the same could only be further emboldened. To buttress his submissions, learned counsel Sri Singh also laid emphasis on the of a Constitution Bench of this Court in Aswini Kumar Ghose vs. Arabinda Bose, (1952) 2 SCC 237, (“Aswini Kumar Ghose”) and Devata Prasad Singh Chaudhuri vs. Chief Justice and Judges of Patna High Court, (1962) 3 SCR 305, (“Devata Prasad Singh Chaudhuri”), to contend that a rule made by an authority to deny the right to exercise essential part of a function would be a serious invasion on the statutory right to practice. 4.19 Learned senior counsel, Sri Rajshekhar Rao, appearing for some of the petitioners submitted on the importance of professional identity of a Chartered Accountant. He also argued that the object of attaining quality has no nexus with the imposed restriction which, effectively restricts both the practitioner and the client in making a choice. It was pressed that the consequences of a punishment being imposed by the respondent-Institute are grave insofar as besides the punishment imposed, various audit works namely, Bank Audit etc. have a requirement that the auditor must not have suffered any kind of punishment for professional misconduct. 4.20 According to learned senior counsel, the Council of respondent- Institute, under powers conferred on it by the 1949 Act, deems a member to be qualified and competent to dutifully practice the services required of a Chartered Accountant and thereby, imposition of a blanket ban by the same Council without any qualitative assessment imposes an onerous penalty on the rights of a Chartered Accountant. More so, to attach a label of professional misconduct without any qualitative assessment, simply due to exceeding the maximum limit, would be incongruous with the object sought and damage future potential prospects without any established relationship between numerical benchmark and quality. 4.21 Reliance was placed by the petitioners on a of the High Court of Delhi in Shri R. Nanabhoy vs. Union of India, 814 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 1982 SCC Online Del. 210 : CWP No. 2398/81, (“Shri R. Nanabhoy”). It was held by Wad, J. therein that Section 233(B) and Section 637(A) of the Companies Act, 1956 did not empower the Central Government to impose any restriction on the number of cost audits which a cost accountant may undertake. Noting that there was no material to base such a restriction, he further found that such a cap on maximum number of audits was arbitrary and in violation of Article 14 of the Constitution. 4.22 It was also canvassed on behalf of the petitioners that where the challenge to an erstwhile in pari materia Notification was not decided on merits the respondent-Institute erred in initiating disciplinary proceedings and imposing punishments, especially where a stay on the operation of the of Madras High Court had been granted. Reliance was placed on Shree Chamundi Mopeds Ltd. vs. Church of South India Trust Association CSI CINOD Secretariat, Madras, (1992) 3 SCC 1 (‘Chamundi Mopeds’).