33.5. The question of payment of sale consideration would arise only and only if the vendor makes a specific statement in his pleadings as also in his deposition in support of the pleading that he did not receive any sale consideration either by way of cheque or by cash. There is no such pleading and as the vendor did not enter the witness box, even if there was any such pleading, there is no statement to prove such pleading. Thus, the above argument being based on minor discrepancy in the statement of the appellant, no benefit can be derived by the respondents. The argument is accordingly rejected. 33.6. There is one more reason to reject this argument. Even if assuming that no sale consideration was paid even though there was a registered sale deed, it would be at the instance of the vendor to challenge the said sale deed on the ground of no sale consideration being paid. In the present case, there [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2323 Kaushik Premkumar Mishra & Anr. v. Kanji Ravaria @ Kanji & Anr. is no such challenge to the sale deed for being declared as void or being cancelled on such ground. Thus also, the said argument deserves to be rejected. 33.7. It has also been argued on behalf of the respondents that appellant No.1, in his deposition, stated that he did not remember as to who had presented the document for registration. Such statement would not be relevant at all inasmuch as the fact remains that the document of sale was presented for registration on 05.12.1985, which fact is not denied. Who presented the document is not relevant. It was for the registering authority to examine and once the document is registered, it is presumed that it was presented by the competent person and necessary signatures of the vendor and vendee must have been taken by the registering authority. From a perusal of the xerox copy of the sale deed it is apparent that there is an endorsement by the Sub-Registrar that the sale deed was presented by respondent no.2, the vendor (defendant no.1 in the suit). 33.8. The submission with regard to delay of 26 years in getting the document registered also does not extend any benefit to the respondents. Non-registration of a document duly presented for registration could be for many reasons. But once it is registered, there is a presumption of correctness attached to it, that is to say that the document has been duly executed and registered in accordance to law. It was for the defendants (respondents) to come forward and to establish that the document was wrongly registered. They did not lead any evidence in this respect. Instead, they tried to put burden on the plaintiff-appellant by requiring him to call the Sub-Registrar as a witness, which the appellant rightly denied. It was always open for the respondents to have called for the records of the Sub-Registrar’s office and also the Sub-Registrar in to find out any mandatory lacuna or illegality or lack of procedure not being followed with respect to the registration.