Explanation:- (1) For the purpose of Clause (a), it shall be sufficient to describe the limits of the land by any well- known or readily intelligible boundaries, such as roads, rivers, bridges and the like. (2) A person appointed to be a Forest Settlement Officer under Clause (c) of sub-section (1) shall be an officer of the Revenue Department not below the rank of a Revenue Divisional Officer. (3) Any forest officer may represent the Forest Department at the inquiry conducted under this Chapter.” Section 7 of the A.P. Forest Act “7. Bar of accrual of fresh rights and prohibition of clearings:- (1) During the interval between the publication of a notification in the Andhra Pradesh Gazette under Section 4 and the date fixed by the notification under Section 15- (a) no right shall be acquired by any person in or over the land included in the notification under [2024] 5 S.C.R. 91 The State of Telangana & Ors. v. Mohd. Abdul Qasim (Died) Per LRs. Sec. 4 except by succession or under a grant or contract in writing made or entered into by or on behalf of the Government or any person in whom such right was vested before the publication of the notification under Section 4; (b) no new house shall be built or plantation formed, no fresh clearing for cultivation or for any other purpose shall be made, on such land and no tress shall be cut from such land for the purpose of trade or manufacture; Provided that nothing shall prohibit the doing of any act specified in this clause with the permission in writing of the Forest Settlement Officer; and (c) no person shall set fire or kindle or leave burning any fire in such manner as to endanger or damage such land or forest produce. (2) No patta in such land shall be granted by or on behalf of the Government.” Section 8 of the A.P. Forest Act “8. Inquiry by Forest Settlement Officer:- (1) The Forest Settlement Officer shall consider every objection and inquire into every claim made under Section 6, after recording in writing the statements made or evidence given in pursuance of the proclamation published or notice served under that section. He shall record any representation which the forest officer, if any, representing the Forest Department under sub-section (3) of Section 4, may make in respect of any such objection or claim. (2) The evidence under sub-section (1) shall be recorded in the manner provided by the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 in appealable cases.” Section 9 of the A.P. Forest Act “9. Powers of Forest Settlement Officer:- For the purpose of an inquiry under Section 8, the Forest Settlement Officer may exercise the following powers, namely: 92 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (a) power to enter by himself or to authorise any officer to enter upon any land and to survey, demarcate and make a map of the land; and (b) the powers conferred on a Civil Court by the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, for summoning and enforcing the attendance of any person and examining him on oath and requiring the production of any document or other article.” Section 10 of the A.P.