1313 V.S. Palanivel v. P. Sriram, CS, Liquidator, Etc. with its inherent powers under Rule 11 of the NCLT Rules, 2016 for extending the time to deposit the balance sale consideration on sufficient cause being shown, i.e., in view of the countrywide lockdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic. This latitude that was given in the aforesaid extraordinary circumstances to meet the ends of justice, cannot be faulted. 36. IMPACT OF THE ATTACHMENT BY THE INCOME TAX AUTHORITIES ON THE SALE OF THE AUCTIONED PROPERTY 36.1 All things even, having held that there was sufficient reason to grant extension of time to the Auction Purchaser to deposit the balance sale consideration in terms of s passed by this Court in the Suo Moto Writ Petition read with the provisions of Regulation 47A of the IBBI Regulations, 2016, and having regard to the view expressed above that the Adjudicating Authority was empowered in law to extend the time on sufficient cause being shown, the matter ought to have rested there. But there is something more to be said in this case that revolves around the arguments advanced by learned counsel for the appellant regarding the import of the of attachment issued by the Income Tax Authorities in respect of the auctioned property and its effect. 36.2 It has been strenuously argued by learned senior counsel for the appellant that the attachment could not be used as an excuse by the Auction Purchaser for belatedly depositing the balance sale consideration. The terms and conditions of the Notice of Sale as extracted in this judgement go to show that the Liquidator had declared that e-auction of the subject property was being conducted on an “AS IS WHERE IS”, “AS IS WHAT IS” and “WHATEVER THERE IS” basis. It was further clarified that the intending bidders must undertake their own independent inquiries, inspect the subject property and satisfy themselves before submitting their bids. 36.3 The fact that the Auction Purchaser was aware of the income tax attachment in respect of the subject property is borne out from the correspondence exchanged by it with the Liquidator, that forms a part of the records. On certain queries being raised by the Auction Purchaser, the Liquidator had replied, vide letter dated 9th December, 2019 and stated that : 1314 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “if the property is sold under IBC, income tax will not have any priority claim and the property can be registered with NCLT , apart from this the Income tax dues are very less hence it can also be paid out of the proceeds and no objection can be taken.” In a subsequent letter dated 17th December, 2019 addressed by the Auction Purchaser to the Liquidator, which was well before the date the auction was scheduled, among other issues raised, one of the requests made to the Liquidator was to ensure that the income tax attachment/ prohibitory on the subject property is lifted by the Income Tax Department. In his reply dated 19th December, 2019 to the aforesaid letter, the Liquidator had informed the Auction Purchaser that: “3.