Pakistan’s ISI is very active in Bangladesh supporting militants in Assam. Muslim militant organisations have mushroomed in Assam. The report also says that this can lead to the severing of the entire landmass of the North-East with all its resources from the rest of the country which will have disastrous strategic and economic consequences. The report is by a person who has held the high and responsible position of the Deputy Chief of the Army Staff and is very well equipped to recognise the potential danger or threat to the security of the nation by the unabated influx and continued presence of Bangladeshi nationals in India. Bangladesh is one of the world’s most populous countries having very few industries. The economic prospects of the people in that country being extremely grim, they are too keen to cross over the b and occupy the 1138 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports land wherever it is possible to do so. The report of the Governor, the affidavits and other material on record show that millions of Bangladeshi nationals have illegally crossed the international b and have occupied vast tracts of land like “Char land” barren or cultivable land, forest area and have taken possession of the same in the State of Assam. Their willingness to work at low wages has deprived Indian citizens and specially people of Assam of employment opportunities. This, as stated in the Governor’s report, has led to insurgency in Assam. Insurgency is undoubtedly a serious form of internal disturbance which causes grave threat to the life of people, creates panic situation and also hampers the growth and economic prosperity of the State of Assam though it possesses vast natural resources.” "63. This being the situation there can be no manner of doubt that the State of Assam is facing “external aggression and internal disturbance” on account of large-scale illegal migration of Bangladeshi nationals. It, therefore, becomes the duty of the Union of India to take all measures for protection of the State of Assam from such external aggression and internal disturbance as enjoined in Article 355 of the Constitution. Having regard to this constitutional mandate, the question arises whether the Union of India has taken any measures for that purpose.” [Emphasis supplied] 359. Thereafter, the Court held that as compared to the Foreigners Act, 1946, the IMDT Act was not as effective in the detection and deportation of illegal immigrants and created insurmountable hurdles regarding the same. Hence, this Act was held to be beneficial for illegal immigrants, whose numbers ran into the millions and who were creating a scenario of insurgency in the State of Assam. Accordingly, the Act was held to be violative of Article 355. 360. We respectfully agree with Sarbananda Sonowal (supra) in its holding that the term aggression in Article 355 is of a wide import and can include unabated migration if it poses a threat to the security of [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1139 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 the state.