It has been urged for the respondent that if the impugned rule be held invalid, old rule 16 gets revived and that the tax assessed on the petitioner will be good. We do not agree. Once the old rule has been substituted by the new rule, it ceases to exist and it does not automatically get revived when the new rule is held to be invalid.”48 The Court in ATB Mehtab Majid found that when an amendment to a rule is invalidated by a court, the old rule does not revive. It draws on the underlying rationale of the Shamarao Parulekar decision in that once a rule is substituted, it ceases to have any legal force and cannot be given legal effect. Hence, the Court held that if the amendment is found to be unconstitutional, the unamended text does not revive and cannot be enforced. While the decision does support the argument of the appellants, that the unamended text of Article 31-C does not revive, the judgement does not elaborate on why the pre-existing rule does not revive. Thus, the decision is of no more assistance to us than the decisions in Bhim Singh and Sanjeev Coke which, without providing detailed reasons, found that Article 31-C stood revived. 47 ATB Mehtab Majid v State of Madras 1963 14 STC 355. 48 ATB Mehtab Majid v State of Madras 1963 14 STC 355. 68 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 54. However, further elucidation on the view in ATB Mehtab Majid is found in Koteswar Vittal Kamath v Rangappa Baliga.49 The decisions has its roots in a contractual dispute where the appellants contended that the contracts in question were forward contracts and void considering the prohibition on forward contracts in the Travancore-Cochin Vegetable Oils and Oil cakes (Forward Contracts Prohibition) , 1950. The respondents in the case alleged that the 1950 Prohibition was unenforceable as it was passed under a law that had since been repealed. After tracing the history of the relevant legislation, a three-judge bench of this Court observed that the 1950 Prohibition was potentially still in force due to the Section 73(2) of the Travancore-Cochin Public Safety Measures Act, 1950, which stipulated that s passed under certain repealed legislations continued in force.50 However, the respondents in the case raised a secondary contention that the state legislature of Travancore was not competent to enact the Public Safety Measures Act, 1950 because Parliament had the exclusive power to legislate on the issue of stock exchanges and forward contracts under Entry 48 of List I of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution. Justice Bhargava, speaking for a three-Judge Bench of this Court opined that this contention was not relevant for the following reasons: “7. … if it be held that the State Government could not competently pass the Prohibition , 1950, because it was a piece of legislation on Forward Contracts, that would be treated as void and non-est. Thereupon, the earlier Prohibition 1119, would continue in force right up to 30th March, 1950.