The voters right to know and access to information is far too important in a democratic set-up so as to curtail and deny ‘essential’ information on the pretext of privacy and the desire to check the flow of unaccounted for money to the political parties. While secret ballots are integral to fostering free and fair elections, transparency—not secrec— yin funding of political parties is a prerequisite for free and fair elections. The confidentiality of the voting booth does not extend to the anonymity in contributions to political parties. 58. In PK.S.u ttas(9-aJ) m(Priyvac y) (supra), all opinions accept that the right to privacy has to be tested and is not absolute. The right to privacy must yield in given circumstances when dissemination of information is legitimate and required in state or public interest. Therefore, the right to privacy is to be applied on balancing the said right with social or public interest. The reasonableness of the restriction should not outweigh the particular aspect of privacy claimed. '*3 Sanjay Kishan Kaul, J., in his opinion in PK.uS.t tasamy (9-J) (Privacy) (supra), has said that restriction on right to privacy may be justifiable and is subject to the principle of proportionality when considering the right to privacy in relation to its function in society. 123 While giving the aforesaid finding, we are applying the single proportionality test. [2024] 2 S.C.R. 598 Digital Supreme Court Reports 59. As observed above, the right to privacy operates in the personal realm, but as the person moves into communal relations and activities such as business and social interaction, the scope of personal space shrinks contextually. '”4 In this context, the High Court of South Africa in My Vote Counts NPC v. President of the Republic of South Africa and Ors. '*° observes that: “(...) given the public nature of political parties and the fact that the private funds they receive have a distinctly public purpose, their rights to privacy can justifiably be attenuated. The same principles must, as a necessary coroaplply ltoa threir ydo,nors . (...)” (emphasis supplied) 60. The great underlying principle of the Constitution is that rights of individuals in a democratic set-up is sufficiently secured by ensuring each a share in political power. '?° This right gets affected when a few make large political donations to secure selective access to those in power. We have already commented on pressure groups that exert such persuasion, within the boundaries of law. However, when money is exchanged as quid pro quo then the line between persuasion and corruption gets blurred. 61. Itis in this context that the High Court of Australia in Jeffery Raymond McCloy and Others v. State of New South Wales and Another’, observes that corruption can be of different kinds. When a wealthy donor makes contribution to a political party in return of a benefit, it is described as quid pro quo corruption. More subtle corruption arises when those in power decide issues not on merits or the desires of their constituencies, but according to the wishes and desires of those who make large contributions.