It is a matter of record that the first application dated 22.01.2007 filed by appellant No. 1 on behalf of the Society disclosed that a bank loan was still outstanding [2024] 4 S.C.R. 317 Vipin Sahni and Another v. Central Bureau of Investigation and that the subject land of nearly 5 acres had been mortgaged to secure the loan. This was followed by scrutiny and verification by the officials of the AICTE, including a spot inspection, following which, approval for starting the ‘Business School of Delhi’ was accorded on 17.08.2007. No wrongdoing has been attributed to the officials of the AICTE in that regard. It was only the later application dated 27.10.2007 for the ‘Business School for Women’ and the application dated 28.10.2007 for the ‘International Business School of Delhi’ that did not state correct information with regard to the outstanding bank loan and the mortgage of the land in connection therewith. However, all three applications mentioned the extent of nearly 5 acres and the AICTE could not be said to be in ignorance of the fact that the said land was under an encumbrance at the time the applications were made. Notably, both the later applications mentioned the fact that an institution was already granted approval in 2007 to operate from the same premises. This was obviously in reference to the ‘Business School of Delhi’ and the application for the same did disclose the subsistence of the loan and the encumbrance on the land. 18. That apart, it was not even the case of the AICTE that it was under any illusions, whereby it was dishonestly induced to grant approval for establishment of the colleges in question. The only party who can speak of being ‘dishonestly induced to do or not do something’ is that party itself and when the AICTE made no such complaint, it was not for others to insinuate that the AICTE was dishonestly induced to do something. 19. In Ram Jas v. State of U.P.1, the ingredients required to constitute an offence of cheating were succinctly summed up thus: - "(i) there should be fraudulent or dishonest inducement of a person by deceiving him; (ii) (a) the person so deceived should be induced to deliver any property to any person, or to consent that any person shall retain any property; or (b) the person so deceived should be intentionally induced to do or omit to do anything which he would not do or omit if he were not so deceived; and 1 [1971] 2 SCR 178 : (1970) 2 SCC 740 318 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (iii) in cases covered by (ii) (b), the act or omission should be one which causes or is likely to cause damage or harm to the person induced in body, mind, reputation or property.’ 20. In V.P.Shrivastava vs. Indian Explosives Limited and others2, this Court observed that in to constitute an offence of cheating, it must be shown that the accused had a fraudulent or dishonest intention at the time of making the representation or promise and such a culpable intention should be there at the time of entering into the agreement.