The legislature in its wisdom has thought that suits of certain types should be decided in stages and though the suit in such cases can be regarded as fully and completely decided only after a final decree is made, the decision of the court arrived at the earlier stage also has a finality attached to it. …” 46. The character of decree passed under sub rules (1) and (2) of XX Rule 18 of the CPC is the same. It is true that the decree passed under sub rule (1) of Rule 18 is not described as preliminary and the decree under sub-rule (2) is declared as preliminary, there is no real difference between the two inasmuch as under both the provisions, the court determines and declares the rights of parties and under both the sub rules, partition, separation or division by metes and bounds has to be effected thereafter. Whereas, under sub rule (1), Collector effects partition, under sub rule (2), it is Commissioner appointed by the court who undertakes the said exercise. 47. In regard to estates assessed to payment of revenue to the government (agricultural land), the court is required to pass only one decree declaring the rights of several parties interested in the suit property with a direction to the Collector (or his subordinate) to effect actual partition or separation in accordance with the declaration made by the court in regard to the shares of various parties and deliver the respective portions to them, in accordance with Section 54 of CPC. If the Collector takes action in the decree appropriately, 1934 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports the matter will not come back to the court and the court will not have to interfere in the partition, except attending any complaint of an affected third party. While making the partition the Collector is bound by declaration of the rights of the parties in the preliminary decree. But the Court has no power to fetter the discretion of the Collector conferred under the law. However, in regard to any issue on which the Collector is not competent to decide, the civil court will have the power to dispose of. If the Collector disregards the terms of the decree, the Court is entitled to refer the case back to the Collector to re-partition the property. The Collector must actually divide the estate in the manner he thinks best keeping in mind the nature of the land as revenue paying entity and the stipulations of the decree. The object of this provision is two-fold: a. First, the revenue authorities are more conversant and better equipped to deal with such matters than a civil court, and; b. Secondly, the interest of the government in regard to the revenue paying estate would be better safeguarded by the Collector than by the civil court. 48. A preliminary decree is a stage where the rights of the parties are worked out which are then to be finally adjudicated by passing of a final decree.