7. The First Party will have no objection if the conviction of the Second Party is set aside by the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India.” 4. Section 147 of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881 makes all offences under NI Act compoundable offences. In our opinion, this settlement agreement can be treated to be compounding of the offence. All the same, Section 320 (5) of CrPC provides that if compounding has to be done after conviction, then it can only be done with the leave of the Court where appeal against such conviction is pending. 5. In cases where the accused relies upon some document for compounding the offence at the appellate stage, courts shall try to check the veracity of such document, which can be done in multiple ways. For the same, in the present matter, this Court vide dated 18.03.2024 had asked the respondent-complainant to file an affidavit to bring on record whether or not any compromise has been reached between the parties. In compliance with the said , the respondent-complainant has filed before us an affidavit dated 27.03.2024 supporting the case of the appellants wherein it is admitted that the accused have paid the amount to the satisfaction of the complainant and further it is said that he has no objection if conviction of the appellants is set aside. Now, when the accused and complainant have reached a settlement permissible by law and this Court has also satisfied itself regarding the genuineness of the [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1229 M/s New Win Export & Anr. v. A. Subramaniam settlement, we think that the conviction of the appellants would not serve any purpose and thus, it is required to be set aside. 6. At this juncture, we would also like to reiterate a few words regarding the principles of compounding of offences in the context of NI Act. It is to be remembered that dishonour of cheques is a regulatory offence which was made an offence only in view of public interest so that the reliability of these instruments can be ensured. A large number of cases involving dishonour of cheques are pending before courts which is a serious concern for our judicial system. Keeping in mind that the ‘compensatory aspect’ of remedy shall have priority over the ‘punitive aspect’, courts should encourage compounding of offences under the NI Act if parties are willing to do so. (See: Damodar S. Prabhu v. Sayed Babalal H. (2010) 5 SCC 663,1 Gimpex Private Limited v. Manoj Goel (2022) 11 SCC 705,2 Meters And Instruments Private Limited And Anr. v. Kanchan Mehta (2018) 1 SCC 560 3) 7. In Raj Reddy Kallem v. The State of Haryana & Anr. [2024] 5 SCR 203, this Court followed the same principles and quashed a conviction under the NI Act, by invoking its powers under Article 142, even though the complainant therein declined to give consent for compounding, observing that the accused has sufficiently compensated the complainant. 8. Considering the totality of the circumstances and compromise between the parties, we allow this appeal and acquit the appellants by setting aside the impugned dated 01.04.2019 as well the Trial Court’s dated 16.10.2012.