The appellant therefore got issued a legal notice dated 27.09.2007 demanding to return the interest amount which was charged over and above 7.5% p. a. The respondent No.1 vide their reply to the notice dated 09.10.2007 contended that the appellant through the agreement opted for ‘Adjustable Rate of interest’, as such rate of interest was varying as per the retail prime lending rate of respondent No. 1. It is in that background the appellant approached the Consumer Forum. 5. We have heard Sri. Vikas Singh, learned senior counsel for the appellant, Sri. Aniruddha Choudhary for the respondents and perused the appeal papers. 6. The thrust of the contention is that the respondent No. 2 on behalf of respondent No.1 had assured that the interest charged by respondent No.1 is as per the retail prime lending rate to be notified by RBI. As such the interest which was indicated at 7.25% p.a. can be altered only if the RBI had altered the rate of interest and not otherwise. Though, in the agreement it is contained that the rate of interest would be as per the prime lending rate of interest of respondent No.1, the same is contrary to the assurance that was held out to the appellant that such adjustable rate of interest agreed is only when the rate of interest is varied by the RBI and not as per the interest to be varied by respondent No.1. The learned senior counsel for the appellant in that regard has placed strong reliance on the email dated 05.10.2005, to contend that such assurance was made to the appellant. 7. The learned senior counsel for the appellant has relied on Texco Marketing (P) Ltd. v. TATA AIG General Insurance Co. Ltd., (2023) 1 SCC 428, wherein the issue considered was with regard to an exclusion clause in an insurance policy which materially altered the nature of the contract. It was observed in this regard that insurance contracts are standard form contracts wherein the [2024] 3 S.C.R. 5 Rajesh Monga v. Housing Development Finance Corporation Limited & Ors. insurer being the dominant party dictates its own terms and the consumer has weak bargaining power and as such the contracts are one sided. The concept of freedom of contract loses some significance in a contract of insurance. Such contracts demand a very high degree of prudence, good faith, disclosure and notice on the part of the insurer, being different facets of the doctrine of fairness. The bench consisting of two Hon’ble judges was of the opinion that one cannot give a restrictive or narrow interpretation to the provisions relating to unfair trade practices as given under the Consumer Protection Act, 1986. The Court’s finding against one of the parties qua the existence of unfair trade practice has to be transformed into an adequate relief in favour of the other, particularly in light of Section 14 of the 1986 Act. Once, the State Commission or the NCDRC, as the case may be, comes to the conclusion that the term of a contract is unfair, particularly by adopting an unfair trade practice, the aggrieved party has to be extended the resultant relief which is further strengthened by Sections 47 and 49 of the 2019 Act.