(2) The judicial members must include at least one Circuit judge, one District Judge (Magistrates’ Courts) and one lay justice. (3) When appointing judicial members, the Lord Chief Justice must have regard to the desirability of the judicial members including at least one person who appears to the Lord Chief Justice to have responsibilities relating to [2024] 5 S.C.R. 707 Sunita Devi v. The State of Bihar & Anr. the training of judicial office-holders who exercise criminal jurisdiction in England and Wales. (4) “Judicial office-holder” has the meaning given by section 109(4) of the Constitutional Reform Act 2005 (c. 4).” Appointment of non-judicial members Schedule 15, Para 4 of the Coroner and Justice Act, 2009 “4(1) A person is eligible for appointment as a non- judicial member if the person appears to the Lord Chancellor to have experience in one or more of the following areas— (a) criminal defence; (b) criminal prosecution; (c) policing; (d) sentencing policy and the administration of justice; (e) the promotion of the welfare of victims of crime; (f) academic study or research relating to criminal law or criminology; (g) the use of statistics; (h) the rehabilitation of offenders. (2) The persons eligible for appointment as a non-judicial member by virtue of experience of criminal prosecution include the Director of Public Prosecutions.” Section 120 of the Coroner and Justice Act, 2009 Guidelines “120 Sentencing guidelines (1) In this Chapter “sentencing guidelines” means guidelines relating to the sentencing of offenders. (2) A sentencing guideline may be general in nature or limited to a particular offence, particular category of offence or particular category of offender. 708 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (3) The Council must prepare— (a) sentencing guidelines about the discharge of a court’s duty under section 73 of the Sentencing Code (reduction in sentences for guilty pleas), and (b) sentencing guidelines about the application of any rule of law as to the totality of sentences. (4) The Council may prepare sentencing guidelines about any other matter. (5) Where the Council has prepared guidelines under subsection (3) or (4), it must publish them as draft guidelines. (6) The Council must consult the following persons about the draft guidelines— (a) the Lord Chancellor; (b) such persons as the Lord Chancellor may direct; (c) the Justice Select Committee of the House of Commons (or, if there ceases to be a committee of that name, such committee of the House of Commons as the Lord Chancellor directs); (d) such other persons as the Council considers appropriate. (7) In the case of guidelines within subsection (3), the Council must, after making any amendments of the guidelines which it considers appropriate, issue them as definitive guidelines. (8) In any other case, the Council may, after making such amendments, issue them as definitive guidelines. (9) The Council may, from time to time, review the sentencing guidelines issued under this section, and may revise them. (10) Subsections (5), (6) and (8) apply to a revision of the guidelines as they apply to their preparation (and subsection (8) applies even if the guidelines being revised are within subsection (3)).