What we must find out is whether the act and the official duty are so inter-related that one can postulate reasonably that it was done by the accused in the performance of the official duty, though possibly in excess of the needs and requirements of the situation. … xxx xxx xxx 19. The result of the foregoing discussion is this : There must be a reasonable connection between the act and the discharge of official duty; the act must bear such relation to the duty that the accused could lay a reasonable, but not a pretended or fanciful claim, that he did it in the course of the performance of his duty.” (emphasis supplied) 50. Furthermore, in Dhannjay Ram Sharma v. M.S. Uppadaya and Others reported in AIR 1960 SC 745, it was clarified that the mere fact that an opportunity to commit an offence is furnished by the official duty is not such a connection of the offence with the performance of such duty, so as to justify even remotely the view that the acts complained of are within the scope of the application of Section 197 CrPC. 51. This Court in P. Arulswami v. State reported in (1967) 1 SCR 201 was also concerned with an offence under Section 409 IPC and it was opined that the act must be directly concerned and connected with the official duties of the public servant such that it could be claimed to have been done by virtue of his office. Furthermore, it is the “quality” of the act that must be emphasized on. The act must [2024] 12 S.C.R. 805 Om Prakash Yadav v. Niranjan Kumar Upadhyay & Ors. not be totally unconnected with the official duty. Only if it falls either within the scope and range of the official duties, or is in excess of it, then Section 197 CrPC would stand attracted. The Court had stated as thus: “…It is not therefore every offence committed by a public servant that requires sanction for prosecution under s. 197(1) of the Criminal Procedure Code; nor even every act done by him while he is actually engaged in the performance of his official duties; but if the act complained of is directly concerned with his official duties so that, if questioned, it could be claimed to have been done by virtue of the office, then sanction would be necessary. It is the quality of the act that is important and if it falls within the scope and range of his official duties the protection contemplated by s. 197 of the Criminal Procedure Code will be attracted. An offence may be entirely unconnected with the official duty as such or it may be committed within the scope of official duty. Where it is unconnected with the official duty there can be no protection. It is only when it is either within the scope of the official duty or in excess of it that the protection is claimable…” (emphasis supplied) 52. In Harihar Prasad Etc.