28. As a result of the aforesaid, to recapitulate, we direct that recruitment to the Higher Judicial Service i.e. the cadre of District Judges will be: (1) (a) 50 per cent by promotion from amongst the Civil Judges (Senior Division) on the basis of principle of merit-cum-seniority and passing a suitability test; (b) 25 per cent by promotion strictly on the basis of merit through limited competitive examination of Civil Judges (Senior Division) having not less than five years’ qualifying service; and (c) 25 per cent of the posts shall be filled by direct recruitment from amongst the eligible advocates on the basis of the written and viva voce test conducted by respective High Courts. (2) Appropriate rules shall be framed as above by the High Courts as early as possible. 29. [...] As a result of the decision today, there will, in a way, be three ways of recruitment to the Higher Judicial Service. The quota for promotion which we have prescribed is 50 per cent by following the principle “merit-cum-seniority”, 25 per cent strictly on 1108 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports merit by limited departmental competitive examination and 25 per cent by direct recruitment. [...]” (Emphasis supplied) 53. Thereafter, in Malik Mazhar Sultan & Anr. (1) v. U.P. Public Service Commission reported in (2006) 9 SCC 507, this Court underscored the importance for filling up judicial vacancies on time and directed the High Courts to undertake necessary steps towards fixing a timeline for determining vacancies, issuing advertisements, conducting examinations, interviews and declaring results for final appointment. The relevant observations read as under: - “23. It is absolutely necessary to evolve a mechanism to speedily determine and fill vacancies of judges at all levels. For this purpose, timely steps are required to be taken for determination of vacancies, issue of advertisement, conducting examinations, interviews, declaration of the final results and issue of s of appointments. For all these and other steps, if any, it is necessary to provide for fixed time schedule so that the system works automatically and there is no delay in filling up of vacancies. [...]” (Emphasis supplied) 54. The aforesaid was followed by the decision in All India Judges’ Association (4) v. Union of India reported in (2010) 15 SCC 170, wherein this Court took note of the fact that various posts of the cadre of District & Sessions Judge earmarked for the 25% promotional quota strictly on the basis of merit were lying vacant on account of insufficiency of candidates or their inability to clear the competitive exam. In such circumstances, it was directed that the 25% promotional quota, to be filled on the basis of Merit, shall be reduced to 10% of the cadre strength, and the 50% promotional quota to be filled by ‘Merit-cum-Seniority’ shall be increased to 65% of the total seats. The relevant observations read as under: - “6. Having regard to various strategies available, we are of the considered view that suitable amendment is to be made for this 25% quota of limited departmental competitive examination.