The court should feel more inclined to give judicial deference to legislative in the field of economic regulation than in other areas where fundamental human rights are involved.” (Emphasis supplied) 68. Similarly in State of Tamil Nadu and Anr. v. National South Indian River Interlinking Agriculturist Association reported in (2021) 15 SCC 534 it was held that courts should show a higher degree of deference to matters concerning economic policy. The relevant observations read as under: - "11. … It is also settled that the Courts would show a higher degree of deference to matters concerning economic policy, compared to other matters of civil and political rights. …” 69. While examining the challenge to the validity of laws relating to economic activities, the courts must be slow and circumspect. A higher degree of deference needs to be shown in such matters, and sufficient flexibility should be given to the legislature and the executive in dealing with economic matters. Complex issues of economic and fiscal nature cannot be construed by any strait-jacket formula or unidirectional approach. This Court has time and again recognised that a judicial hands-off approach must be followed qua economic legislation and that the legislature is to be allowed wide latitude in experimenting with economic legislation, by virtue of it being an extension of the Government’s economic policy. 70. Since the MMDR Act and the rules thereunder pertain to the extraction, disposal and sale of natural resources which is an economic policy that entails intricate economic choices and have a direct effect on the macroeconomics, we are of the considered opinion that when it comes to computation of royalty the legislature must have greater play in the joints. [2024] 12 S.C.R. 101 Kirloskar Ferrous Industries Limited & Anr v. Union of India & Ors. 71. The exclusion of royalty, and contributions towards DMF and NMET paid previously for coal but not for other minerals cannot be termed as arbitrary or unreasonable, merely because the computation for one differs from the other in certain aspects. Deference needs to be shown to the legislature in deciding how royalty must be computed in respect of different mineral grades / concentrates. 72. However, the present petition particularly the challenge to the validity of the Explanation(s) to Rule 38 of the MCR, 2016 and Rule 45 of the MCDR, 2017 is unique in its own way. While there is nothing to show that such policy is in excess of the powers or domain of the respondents herein or in breach of any statutory provision, at the same time, we should not ignore or overlook the fact that the legislature itself has acknowledged the anomaly in compounding of royalty etc. for the purpose of computation of average sale price. 73. Similarly, though the discretion to exclude previously paid royalty and contributions for coal but not for other minerals cannot be approached in a rigid manner and it would be incorrect to import policies framed and tailored by the executive for one particular subject-area and blanketly apply it to other related subject-areas, as it is the executive which is best suited to determine the fine distinctions existing between interlacing or seemingly similar domains and formulate distinct policies to best factor in the dissimilarities.