In view of the aforesaid discussion, the impugned dated 22.08.2020 is set aside. We, accordingly, partly allow the appeal and direct that the appellant and the respondent will share custody of the minor children ‘SSU’ and ‘SSH’ in the following manner: (i) Till the start of the next academic session the appellant would be entitled to have overnight custody of the minor children on the second and fourth weekend of every month. For the said purpose, the appellant shall travel to the respondent’s station of posting, on her own expenses on the second Friday of every month. She shall either make her own arrangements for accommodation or request the respondent to arrange for her accommodation at a guest house in the Cantonment Area. The respondent will hand over the custody of the children to the appellant on the evening of Friday, after she has arrived. The children shall remain with the appellant till Sunday evening and thereafter, the respondent shall pick them up before the appellant leaves for Delhi. On the fourth Friday of every month, the respondent shall either bring the children to Delhi or send them by flight, while placing them in the care of the airline staff. In such a situation, the appellant will pick the children up from the airport. The children shall be returned by flight available on Sunday evening. The expenses for the to and fro journey of the children on such fourth weekend of each month shall be borne by the respondent. 266 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (ii) Prior to the beginning of the next academic session, the appellant shall ensure that admission of the minor children is secured at the school where she is currently teaching, i.e., Delhi Public School, Gurugram, Haryana. The respondent shall fully cooperate in the admission process. Thereafter, the respondent shall hand over the custody of the minor children to the appellant. The children will stay with the appellant at her residence in Delhi. In such a situation, the respondent would be entitled to have overnight custody of the minor children on the second and fourth weekend of every month. For the said purpose, the respondent shall travel to Delhi, on his own expenses on every second Friday. He shall make his own arrangements for accommodation. The appellant will hand over the custody of the children to the respondent on the evening of Friday, after he has arrived. The children shall remain with the respondent till Sunday evening and thereafter, the appellant shall pick them up before the respondent leaves. On the fourth Friday of every month, the appellant shall either bring the children to the respondent’s station of posting or send them by flight, while placing them in the care of the airline staff. In such a situation, the respondent will pick the children up from the airport. The children shall be returned by flight available on Sunday evening. The expenses for the to and fro journey of the children on such fourth weekend of each month shall be borne by the appellant.