20. Dealing with the mitigating circumstance, the High Court noticed the contention of the defence, to the effect that there was no semblance of any element of gain, profit or advantage for the accused; that rightly or wrongly the accused was labouring under an impression of deprivation in love; that the accused was in an extremely agitated and excited state of mind; that there was indication to show that at some point of time deceased Latha had herself suggested commission of suicide together; that the accused had no motive whatsoever against Ramachandran, Chitra and Karthiayani Amma; that he had [2024] 3 S.C.R. 933 Navas @ Mulanavas v. State of Kerala great affection for Chitra and referred to Ramachandran in endearing terms; that he had not used any weapon against Karthiayani Amma; that he did not make any attempt to flee from justice and in fact attempted to commit suicide; that he was a young man of twenty eight years; that he was still young and not lost to civilization and humanity and the final contention of the defence that he was not a menace to the society. 21. Thereafter, the High Court dealt with the precedents laid down by this Court in Bachan Singh v. State of Punjab (1980) 2 SCC 684, Machhi Singh v. State of Punjab (1983) 3 SCC 470 to examine whether the litmus test, namely, that the alternative option being unquestionably foreclosed was fulfilled or not. Thereafter, the High Court noticed the of this Court in Swamy Shraddananda (supra) and the holding thereon that to avoid a sentence of death, it is possible for the courts to device a graver form of sentence of imprisonment for life beyond fourteen years which would ensure that the society is insulated from the criminal for such period as the court may specify, including if the facts warranted, the entire rest of his life. 22. Thereafter applying Swamy Shraddananda (supra), the High Court observed as follows: “54. A question still remains whether the instant case is one in which the graver alternatives of a life sentence are also unquestionably foreclosed. We have rendered our anxious consideration to all that all the relevant inputs. We are unable to agree that all the options now available can be said to be unquestionably foreclosed in the given circumstances. In every case of death sentence, the court must consider the purpose of the sentence. The theory of reformation will have no place whatsoever in a case of imposition of death sentence. In a case like the instant one, the consideration of compensation/restoration cannot also have any place, as all the members of the family have been liquidated by the conduct of the accused. The purpose of a death sentence - of eliminating the menace to the society in the form of a hardened criminal and to save society from the activities of such criminal may not also have much role, given the alternative option of a life sentence which will ensure that the accused does not come into contact with the society thereafter.