There could be no doubt any question raised within the peripheral field of rectification, it is the court under Section 155 alone which would have exclusive jurisdiction. However, the question raised does not rest here. In case any claim is based on some seriously disputed civil rights or title, denial of any transaction or any other basic facts which may be the foundation to claim a right to be a member and if the court feels such claim does not constitute to be a rectification but instead seeking adjudication of basic pillar some such facts falling outside the rectification, its discretion to send a party to seek his relief before the civil court first for the adjudication of such facts, it cannot be said such right of the court to have been taken away merely on account of the deletion of the aforesaid proviso. Otherwise under the garb of rectification one may lay claim of many such contentious issues for adjudication not falling under it. Thus in other words, the court under it has discretion to find whether the dispute raised is really for rectification or is of such a nature that unless decided first it would not come within the purview of rectification. The word “rectification” itself connotes some error which has crept in requiring correction. Error would only mean everything as required under the law has been done yet by some mistake the name is either omitted or wrongly recorded in the Register of the company. ...” 25. In Standard Chartered Bank vs. Andhra Bank Financial Services Limited,2 a 3-Judge Bench of this Court affirmed the view taken in Ammonia Supplies Corporation (P) Ltd. (supra) that the jurisdiction exercised by a Company Court under Section 155 of the Companies 2 [2006] Supp. 2 SCR 1 : (2006) 6 SCC 94 [2024] 9 S.C.R. 251 Chalasani Udaya Shankar and others v. M/s. Lexus Technologies Pvt. Ltd. and other Act, 1956 (Section 111, thereafter), was somewhat summary in nature and that, if a seriously disputed question of title arose, the Company Court should relegate the parties to a suit, which was the more appropriate remedy for investigation and adjudication of such seriously disputed questions of title. 26. In Jai Mahal Hotels Private Limited vs. Devraj Singh and others,3 this Court again held that issues which truly relate to ‘rectification’ of the Register fall within the summary jurisdiction of the Company Law Board and only complex questions of title fall outside its jurisdiction. It was observed that there is a thin line in appreciating the scope of jurisdiction of the Company Court and the jurisdiction is exclusive, if the matter truly relates to ‘rectification’, but if the issue is alien to ‘rectification’, such matter may not be within the exclusive jurisdiction of the Company Court. 27. In Adesh Kaur vs. Eicher Motors Limited and others,4 this Court found, on facts, that it was an open-and-shut case of fraud, in which the appellant who had applied for rectification had been the victim, and held that the appellate tribunal was not correct in relegating the appellant to the civil court on the ground that a criminal complaint and a SEBI investigation were pending and in holding that it was not proper for the National Company Law Tribunal to exercise power to rectify the Register under Section 59 of the Companies Act, 2013.