Sometime later, the government decided to reconsider all uncommunicated s. As a result the respondents therein filed a writ seeking implementation of the as mentioned in the internal note-file. This Court held that the notings in official files of the government are an internal matter and carry no legal sanctity unless they are approved and duly communicated as per the prescribed procedure. It is only when such notings are translated into formal decisions, they would create some right or claim in favour of a person. The relevant observations read as under: - “36. [...] first, a mere noting in the official files of the Government while dealing with any matter pertaining to any person is essentially an internal matter of the Government and carries with it no legal sanctity; second, once the decision on such issue is taken and approved by the competent authority empowered by the Government in that behalf, it is required to be communicated to the person concerned by the State Government. In other words, so long as the decision based on such internal deliberation is not approved and communicated by the competent authority as per the procedure prescribed in that behalf to the person concerned, such noting does not create any right in favour of the person concerned nor it partake the nature of any legal so as to enable the person concerned to claim any benefit of any such 594 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports internal deliberation. Such noting(s) or/and deliberation(s) are always capable of being changed or/and amended or/ and withdrawn by the competent authority.” (Emphasis supplied) 83. We are of the view that the reliance on the part of the respondent on the decisions of this Court in Pimpri Chinchwad (supra) and Shanti Sports Club (supra) to assert that no reference could be made to the internal-file notings for the purposes of judicial review of its decision is completely misplaced. In Shanti Sports Club (supra) the question before the Court was as to when an internal noting can be used to confer or claim a right. Whereas in Pimpri Chinchwad (supra) the issue for consideration before the Court was whether any internal-note or deliberation once written in the files was capable of being reconsidered, changed, modified or withdrawn. 84. None of the aforementioned decisions lay down that the courts are completely precluded from appraising or scrutinizing the internal file notings and deliberations for the purposes of judicial review of a decision. This Court in Pimpri Chinchwad (supra) and Shanti Sports Club (supra) only went so far as to say that as long as the deliberations in the internal file notings have not been formalized into an official decision, the same cannot be relied upon to claim any right. 85. We are of the considered opinion that once a decision has been officially made through proper means and channel, any internal deliberations or file notings that formed a part of that decision-making process can certainly be looked into by the Court for the purposes of judicial review in to satisfy itself of the impeccability of the said decision.