[2024] 3 S.C.R. 462 : 2024 INSC 161 Sita Soren v. Union of India (Criminal Appeal No. 451 of 2019) 04 March 2024 [Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud,* CJI, A.S. Bopanna, M. M. Sundresh, Pamidighantam Sri Narasimha, J.B. Pardiwala, Sanjay Kumar and Manoj Misra, JJ.] Issue for Consideration Instant Reference pertains to reconsideration of the correctness of the view of the majority in *PV Narasimha Rao’s case granting immunity from prosecution to a member of the legislature who has allegedly engaged in bribery for speaking or casting a vote. Headnotes Constitution of India – Arts. 105 and 196 – Powers, privileges and immunities of the Houses of Parliament or Legislature, as the case may be, and of members and committees – Member of Parliament or the Legislative Assembly, if can claim immunity from prosecution on a charge of bribery in a criminal court – Reconsideration of the correctness of the majority view in*PV Narasimha Rao’s case which grants immunity from prosecution to a member of the legislature who has allegedly engaged in bribery for casting a vote or speaking: Held: of the majority in *PV Narasimha Rao’s case has wide ramifications on public interest, probity in public life and parliamentary democracy – There is a grave danger of this Court allowing an error to be perpetuated if decision not reconsidered – Thus, said case not concurred with and overruled. [Para 188] Constitution of India – Arts. 105 and 196 – Powers, privileges and immunities of the Houses of Parliament or Legislature, and of members and committees – Allegation against the member of Legislative Assembly that she accepted bribe from an independent candidate for casting her vote in his favour in the Rajya Sabha elections, however, in an open ballot, she did not cast her vote in favour of the alleged bribe giver but her own party candidate – Chargesheet against the member – * Author [2024] 3 S.C.R. 463 Sita Soren v. Union of India Petition for quashing of criminal charges, claiming protection of Art.194(2), relying on *PV Narasimha Rao’s case that member would enjoy immunity from prosecution for accepting bribe for speaking or giving their vote in Parliament – Rejected by the High Court – Matter before the Supreme Court where the two-judge bench referred the matter to three-judge bench, who further referred to five-judges bench – Bench of five-judges doubted the correctness of *PV Narasimha Rao wherein the majority held that the legislator is conferred with immunity when they accept bribe for speaking or giving their vote in Parliament, whereas minority held that giving bribe to influence legislator to vote or speak in Parliament, not protected by Arts. 105(2) and 194(2), and referred the matter to bench of seven judges: Held: Interpretation placed on the issue in question in the of the majority in *PV Narasimha Rao’s case results in a paradoxical outcome – Such an interpretation is contrary to the text and purpose of Arts. 105 and 194 – Reconsidering *PV Narasimha Rao’s case does not violate the principle of stare decisis – Members of the House or indeed the House itself cannot claim privileges which are not essentially related to their functioning – Constitution envisions probity in public life – Corruption and bribery of members of the legislature erode the foundation of the Parliamentary democracy – Bribery is not protected by parliamentary privilege – Delivery of result irrelevant to the offence of bribery – Voting for elections to the Rajya Sabha falls within the ambit of Art.