In TRF Limited,69 a three-judge bench of this Court considered the validity of an arbitration clause which provided that the Managing Director of the respondent would act as the arbitrator or nominate the sole arbitrator. The issue before the Court was whether the Managing Director, who is ineligible to act as an arbitrator under Section 12(5) read with the Seventh Schedule, can nominate the sole arbitrator.70 The Court answered this question in the negative by relying on various s on delegation of authority and the maxim “qui facit per alium facit per se” (what one does through another is done by oneself).71 Thus, the Court extended the ineligibility to act as an arbitrator under Section 12(5) to also include the ineligibility to appoint the sole arbitrator. However, while doing so, it did not test whether the nominee arbitrator is himself ineligible under Section 12(5), nor did it source its decision in any other provision of the statute that restricts the authority of a person who is ineligible to be an arbitrator to appoint the arbitrator. Further, no reasonable apprehension or justifiable doubt was raised regarding the nominated arbitrator’s independence and impartiality to warrant an appointment by the court de hors the arbitration agreement under Section 11(8) of the Act. IV. Subsequently, in Perkins,72 the Court interpreted and relied on the ruling in TRF (supra) while considering an arbitration agreement where the Chairman and Managing Director (CMD) of the respondent could appoint the sole arbitrator. It held that 67 ibid, paras 27 and 28. 68 ibid, paras 29 and 30. 69 TRF Limited v. Energo Engineering Projects Limited (2017) 8 SCC 377. 70 ibid, paras 50, 53. 71 ibid, paras 50-54. 72 Perkins Eastman Architects DPC v. HSCC (India) Limited (2020) 20 SCC 760. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2315 Central Organisation for Railway Electrification v. M/s ECI SPIC SMO MCML (JV) A Joint Venture Company even if the arbitration agreement does not provide for the CMD to act as an arbitrator, as was the case in TRF (supra), he remains incompetent to nominate the arbitrator, which stems from his interest in the outcome of dispute, thereby creating a possibility of bias.73 The Court held that the ineligibility to appoint is a result of operation of law, as a person who is ineligible to act as an arbitrator must not have an exclusive role in charting the course of dispute resolution by appointing the arbitrator.74 However, in cases where both parties can nominate an arbitrator of their choice, the advantage to any one party would get counter-balanced.75 The problems in the reasoning in TRF (supra), i.e., the absence of a statutory source for ineligibility to appoint, and justifiable doubts regarding the nominated arbitrator’s independence and impartiality to warrant a court appointment de hors the agreement, are not addressed even in Perkins (supra). V. A three-judge bench in CORE76 interpreted the arbitration clause 64(3)(b) of the GCC in railway contracts, which provides for appointment of a three-member arbitral tribunal from a panel of retired officers maintained by the Railways.