The position regarding revocation of gifts upon breach is a possible condition. However, merely incorporating a defeasance clause will not exempt the plaintiff from discharging his burden. The plaintiff has to satisfy the Court and lead evidence to show what exactly was the nature of the services agreed upon, that a demand for these services was communicated and that the defendants refused rendering of services having reneged on the agreement. 11. On a perusal of the material on record, both the plaint and PW-1’s deposition are conspicuously silent regarding any specific instances where services were denied by the defendants or their predecessors-in-interest. There was only a vague and conclusory allegation that services have been refused, without any evidence in support of the same. [2024] 12 S.C.R. 703 Smt. Naresh Kumari & Ors. v. Smt. Chameli & Ors. The defendants primarily asserted that they have continued to render services and did not raise any plea of adverse possession. Their assertion has to be read only to the extent that they continued to render services to the donor or even his heirs, till the time they were physically residing in the village. 12. PW-1 deposed in his cross-examination (on 17.05.2000) that the donor died some 40 to 45 years back. What this means is that the donor passed away in the late 1950s soon after the gift was executed and possession was transferred. However, the plaintiffs only filed their suit in 1998, around 45 years after the gift’s execution and around 20 years after the last original surviving donee died during the 1970s. While the defendants enjoyed uninterrupted possession throughout this period. 13. Transfer of suit land by way of gift took place in the year 1953 in Jhajjar district of present day Haryana which at that time was a part of the erstwhile State of Punjab, where provisions of TPA were not applicable. All the same, as stated in the preceding paragraphs, even though TPA was not applicable, what would definitely be applicable would be the provisions in TPA which are based on the principles of equity, justice and good conscience. The admitted case of the plaintiffs is that the land (the subject matter of the case), was given in gift to the defendants (their predecessors- in-interest), in the year 1953. But since the condition in the gift was that the defendants will continue to render services (what was meant by these ‘services’ has nowhere been explained), and since they are not providing the services anymore, the land should resume to the ownership of the plaintiffs. The plaintiffs i.e., appellants before this Court had asserted that their forefathers / predecessors-in-interest had donated a piece of land to the defendants as a gift which was an onerous gift with a condition that it is not only being given for past services but also for future services, the donees and their successors will continue to provide to the donor and his successors and if the services stop, the property will revert to the donor or his successors.