7. On 11th June 2016, relatives of the convicts submitted fresh mercy petitions before the Hon’ble President of India. On 15th June 2016 and 22nd July 2016, the Under Secretary (Judicial), Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of India (for short, ‘Under Secretary (GOI)’) issued letters of request to the Principal Secretary, Home Department, Government of Maharashtra for the supply of documents. On 9th August 2016, the Under Secretary, Home Department, Government of Maharashtra addressed a letter to the ADG (Prisons) and the Superintendent of Prison to supply information regarding the past criminal history of the convicts, the economic condition of the families of convicts and the filing of any review petitions by the convicts. On 5th September 2016, the Superintendent of Prison addressed a letter to the concerned Police Station requesting information regarding the past criminal history and economic condition of the family of convicts. The Under Secretary (GOI) addressed a reminder on 6th September 2016 to the Home Department, Government of Maharashtra, requesting to supply the documents. On 9th September 2016, the Superintendent of Prison confirmed by addressing a letter to the Home Department, Government of Maharashtra, that the convicts had not filed review petitions. On 12th September 2016, the concerned Police Station forwarded to the Home Department, Government of Maharashtra, the details regarding the criminal history and economic condition of 582 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the convicts. On 30th September 2016, the Home Department of the State Government addressed a letter to the Under Secretary (GOI) giving information about the criminal history and economic condition of the convicts and filing of review petitions by the convict. On 26th December 2016, the Under Secretary (GOI) addressed a letter to the Home Department, Government of Maharashtra, for confirmation regarding the decision of the convicts not to file review petitions. This information was sought by the Home Department, Government of Maharashtra, by the letter dated 16th January 2017 from the ADG (Prisons) and the Superintendent of Prison. Accordingly, on 21st January 2017, statements of the convicts were recorded in which they stated that though they intended to file review petitions, the same have not been filed. This information was furnished by the Offices of Superintendent of Prison and the ADG (Prisons) to the Home Department of the State Government in separate letters dated 23rd January 2017 and 7th February 2017, respectively. On 22nd February 2017, the Home Department, Government of Maharashtra, informed the Under Secretary (Judicial), Home Department, Government of India, confirming that the convicts intended to file review petitions. The said letter recorded that both the convicts had decided to file review petitions after the decision of the Hon’ble President of India on the mercy petitions. The Hon’ble President on 26th May 2017 rejected the mercy petitions. This information was submitted by the Under Secretary, Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of India, to the Principal Secretary, Home Department, Government of Maharashtra, in a letter dated 6th June 2017. By separate letters dated 19th June 2017 addressed to the family members of the convicts and the learned Sessions Judge, Pune, the Superintendent of Prison informed them about the rejection of the mercy petitions.