All the 94 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports prosecution witnesses who identified the accused in the Court such as PW-1 and PW-5 were not known to the present appellant i.e., accused no.2. They had not seen the present appellant prior to the said incident. He was a stranger to both of them. More importantly, both of them have seen the appellant/accused No. 2 on the date of the crime while he was wearing a “green colour monkey cap”! 11. Now, as one is familiar a monkey cap covers the entire face, chin and cheek of a person, leaving only his eyes and nose and part of forehead exposed. These two witnesses (PW-1 and PW-5), had seen the appellant wearing a monkey cap and that too from a distance. Under these circumstances, TIP had become necessary particularly when both the accused, who are alleged to have committed this murder were arrested within two days. The incident is of about 7:00 pm on 13.11.2014 and both of them were arrested at around 10 pm on 15.11.2014. The case of the prosecution is that while they were being arrested, they received injuries as they tried to escape and consequently, they were taken to the Hospital for treatment. It was in the hospital, that PW-1 i.e. father of the deceased and the complainant and PW-5 were taken by the Investigating Officer who are said to have identified the two accused as the one who had committed the crime. No explanation whatsoever has been given by the prosecution as to why TIP was not conducted in this case before a Magistrate as it ought to have been done. In fact, the High Court has recorded this flaw in the investigation at more than one place in its . It has again observed that the Investigating Officer (PW-24) was before the Court and in spite of being questioned as to what the reasons were for not holding TIP in this case, no satisfactory reply was given by him. 12. It is well settled that TIP is only a part of Police investigation. The identification in TIP of an accused is not a substantive piece of evidence. The substantive piece of evidence, or what can be called evidence is only dock identification that is identification made by witness in Court during trial. This identification has been made in Court by PW-1 and PW-5. The High Court rightly dismisses the identification made by PW-1 for the reason that the appellant i.e., accused no.2 was a stranger to PW-1 and PW-1 had seen the appellant for the first time when he was wearing a monkey cap, and in the absence of TIP to admit the identification by PW-1 made for the first time in the Court was not proper. However, the High Court has believed the [2024] 7 S.C.R. 95 P. Sasikumar v. The State Rep. by the Inspector of Police testimony of PW-5 who has identified accused no.2 under similar circumstances! The appellant was also stranger to PW-5 and PW-5 had also seen the accused i.e., the present appellant for the first time on that fateful day i.e.