(3) Where an arbitration agreement to submit future disputes to arbitration provides that any claim to which the agreement applies shall be barred unless some step to commence arbitral proceedings is taken within a time fixed by the agreement, and a dispute arises to which the agreement applies, the Court, if it is of opinion that in the circumstances of the case undue hardship would otherwise be caused, and notwithstanding that the time so fixed has expired, may on such terms, if any, as the justice of the case may require, extend the time for such period as it thinks proper. [2024] 3 S.C.R. 95 M/S Arif Azim Co. Ltd. v. M/S Aptech Ltd. (4) Where the Court s that an arbitral award be set aside, the period between the commencement of the arbitration and the date of the of the Court shall be excluded in computing the time prescribed by the Limitation Act, 1963 (36 of 1963), for the commencement of the proceedings (including arbitration) with respect to the dispute so submitted.” 46. Since none of the Articles in the Schedule to the Limitation Act, 1963 provide a time period for filing an application under Section 11(6) of the Act, 1996, it would be covered by Article 137 of the Limitation Act, 1963 which is the residual provision and reads as under: Description of Period of Time from which Application limitation period begins to run 137. Any other application Three When the right to for which no period of years apply accrues. limitation is provided elsewhere in this Division 47. In his authoritative commentary, “International Commercial Arbitration, Wolters Kluwer, 3rd Edition, pp. 2873-2875”, Gary B. Born has observed that as a general rule, limitation statutes are applicable to arbitration proceedings. The relevant extract is as follows: “Most nations impose limitation or prescription periods within which civil claims must be brought. Of course, statutes of limitation differ from country to country. As discussed below, statutes of limitations are virtually always applicable in international arbitration proceedings, in the same way that they apply in national court proceedings. Choosing between various potentially-applicable statutes of limitations in international arbitration raises significant choice-of-law questions. xxx xxx xxx Conflict of laws issues also arise as to the date that the statute of limitations period is tolled. The issue can be addressed by national laws, as well as by institutional arbitration rules. Unfortunately, inconsistencies can arise 96 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports between institutional rules and one or more potentially- applicable national laws (which may also apply in a mandatory fashion). For counsel in a particular dispute, of course, the only safe course is to satisfy the shortest potentially-applicable limitations period.” (emphasis supplied) 48. A seven-Judge Bench of this Court in SBP & Co. v. Patel Engineering Ltd. and Another reported in (2005) 8 SCC 618 held that the issue of limitation being one of threshold importance, it must be decided at the pre-reference stage, so that the other party is not dragged through a long-drawn arbitration, which would be expensive and time consuming.