15. A medical professional may be held liable for negligence only when he is not possessed with the requisite qualification or skill or when he fails to exercise reasonable skill which he possesses in giving the treatment. None of the above two essential conditions for establishing negligence stand satisfied in the case at hand as no evidence was brought on record to prove that Dr. Neeraj Sud had not exercised due diligence, care or skill which he possessed in operating the patient and giving treatment to him. 16. When reasonable care, expected of the medical professional, is extended or rendered to the patient unless contrary is proved, it would not be a case for actionable negligence. In a celebrated and very often cited decision in Bolam v. Friern Hospital Management Committee (Queen’s Bench Division),3 it was observed that a doctor is not negligent if he is acting in accordance with the acceptable norms of practice unless there is evidence of a medical body of skilled persons in the field opining that the accepted principles/ procedure were not followed. The test so laid down popularly came to be known as Bolam’s test and stands approved by the Supreme Court in Jacob Mathews v. State of Punjab and Another.4 If we apply the same in the present case, we would find that Dr. Neeraj Sood was a competent and a skilled doctor possessing requisite qualification to perform PTOSIS surgery and to administer the requisite treatment and that he had followed the accepted mode of practice in performing the surgery and that there was no material to establish any overt act or omission to prove negligence on his part. As stated earlier, no evidence was adduced to prove that he had not exercised sufficient care or has failed to exercise due skill in performing the surgery. 17. In Jacob Mathews (supra) this Court held that a professional may be held liable for negligence if he is not possessed of the requisite skill which he supposes to have or has failed to exercise the same with reasonable competence. The complainant has not adduced any evidence to establish that Dr. Neeraj Sud or the PGI were guilty of not exercising the expertise or the skill possessed by them, so as to hold them liable for negligence. No evidence was produced of any expert 3 English Law (1957) 1 WLR 582 4 [2005] Supp. 2 SCR 307 : (2005) 6 SCC 1 1482 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports body in the medical field to prove that requisite skill possessed by Dr. Neeraj Sood was not exercised by him in discharge of his duties. 18. In other words, simply for the reason that the patient has not responded favourably to the surgery or the treatment administered by a doctor or that the surgery has failed, the doctor cannot be held liable for medical negligence straightway by applying the doctrine of Res Ipsa Loquitor unless it is established by evidence that the doctor failed to exercise the due skill possessed by him in discharging of his duties.