An “equal footing” conception may not therefore be feasible to adequately address the asymmetrical relationship between the polluters and those affected by their actions. Instead, a recognition of the historical experience of marginalised classes of persons while accessing and effectively using the legal system, will allow for necessary appreciation of social realities and balancing the arm of justice. xxx xxx xxx 80. In the backdrop of the above weighty concerns, this Court should advert to what Schiffer and Dowling have stated on the “Blindfold of Lady Justice”, which symbolises “the ideal of administering equal justice to everyone who comes to our courts, regardless of race, creed, or economic class”. [Schiffer, L.J. & Dowling, T.J. (1997), “Reflections on the Role of the Courts in Environmental Law”, 27(2) Environmental Law 327-342.] The relevance of this concept is particularly apposite when we consider the inability of most marginalised communities, to access the legal machinery.” (emphasis supplied) NEED FOR A CHANGE: FROM ANTHROPOCENTRIC TO ECOCENTRIC 31. There is a crying need for a change in our approach. Man being an enlightened species, is expected to act as a trustee of the Earth. It is his duty to ensure the preservation of the ecosystem and to continuously endeavour towards the protection of air, water and land. It is not his right to destroy the habitat of other species but his duty to protect them from further peril. A right to enjoy cannot be restricted to any specific group, and so also to human beings. The time has come for mankind to live sustainably and respect the rights of rivers, lakes, beaches, estuaries, ridges, trees, mountains, seas and air. It is imperative to 118 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports do so as there is always a constant threat to forests due to the ever- increasing population. Man is bound by nature’s law. Therefore, the need of the hour is to transform from an anthropocentric approach to ecocentric approach which will encompass a wider perspective in the interest of the environment. Dr. Susana Borras in her paper titled “New Transitions from Human Rights to the Environment to the Rights of Nature” published in Transnational Environmental Law, Volume 5, Issue 1, April 2016 has reflected on the rights of nature (p. 114), “A new approach is emerging, however: the recognition of the rights of nature, which implies a holistic approach to all life and all ecosystems. In recent years, a series of normative precedents have surfaced, which recognize that nature has certain rights as a legal subject and holder of rights. These precedents potentially contribute not merely a greater sensitivity to the environment, but a thorough reorientation about how to protect the Earth as the centre of life. From this perspective, known as ‘biocentrism’, nature is not an object of protection but a subject with fundamental rights, such as the rights to exist, to survive, and to persist and regenerate vital cycles. The implication of this recognition is that human beings have the legal authority and responsibility to enforce these rights on behalf of nature in that rights of nature become an essential element for the sustainability and the survivability of human societies.