[We avoided an expression which could have given rise to controversy]. Therefore we have laid down, not theoretical words and formulae, but rather the content of the thing we desire.” 15 Justice O. Chinnappa Reddy in his book “The Court and the Constitution of India: Summits and Shallows” explains that socialism is another name for humanism: - “…….After all, what is the essence of Socialism? Socialism is no more than humanism or at any rate the essential step towards humanism. The central problem of socialism (that is, humanism) is the problem of man, and its most essential aspect is that of creating conditions for man’s happiness and full development.” 16 Apart from the fact that “socialism” is now a part of our Preamble, many of the provisions in Part IV of the Constitution are rooted in socialist philosophy, such as Articles 38, 39, 39A, 41, 42, 43, 43A and 47. A word on socialism, which has a direct influence on Article 38 and Article 39 (b) and (c), would be in . Socialism, thankfully, is not a rigid concept and over the years has been adopted and adjusted according to the needs of society. ‘Socialism’ in the context of the Indian Constitution is just another name for welfare economy. “Indian socialism is about what the Constitution of India wants to have for the people of India, the establishment of 15 cOnstituent asseMBly deBates, vOl. I, Pg. 62. 16 O. chinnaPPa reddy, the cOurt and the cOnstitutiOn Of india: suMMits and shallOws (Oxford University Press, 2008), Pg. 139. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 271 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. a welfare state.”17 What measures this welfare State has to adopt in a democracy is given in the Charter of Instructions contained in Part IV of the Constitution, that is Directive Principles of State Policy, which we will discuss shortly. 10. In the 1940s, when discussions were on as to what shape the free and independent nation would take, the nascent industrial class in India also understood well that the path independent India was to take will be influenced by socialist principles. The industrial class, though in many ways a beneficiary of the colonial rule, was essentially nationalist in character. It gave broad support to the national movement against imperialism and associated with the nationalist movement both as a segment of Indian society and as a separate and distinct political force; though it did not do so through direct participation.18 “The Indian capitalist class had developed a long-term contradiction with imperialism while retaining a relationship of short-term dependence on and accommodation with it.”19 Our industrial community understood well, the role of the State in heavy industries and infrastructure, which was inevitable, even desirable, as till that time there was not enough capital in private hands, which could take large scale infrastructural projects, like dams, roads, railways and heavy industries. The industrial class recognised that it was the State alone which has to be the biggest investor and proponent of industrial revolution in India.