[2024] 9 S.C.R. 644 : 2024 INSC 719 Rajesh Mitra @ Rajesh Kumar Mitra & Anr. v. Karnani Properties Ltd. (Civil Appeal No(s). 3593-3594 of 2024) 20 September 2024 [Sudhanshu Dhulia* and Prasanna B. Varale, JJ.] Issue for Consideration Whether the appellants-children of the original tenant had also became tenants upon the death of their father, by virtue of s.2(h) of the old Act-West Bengal Premises Tenancy Act, 1956; and whether the 1997 Act would cover such tenants who were protected under the 1956 Act. Headnotes† West Bengal Premises Tenancy Act, 1956 – s.2(h) – West Bengal Premises Tenancy Act, 1997 – s.2(g) – Death of the original tenant in the year 1970, before the commencement of 1997 Act-prior to July 10, 2001 – Devolution of tenancy on the tenant’s widow and the appellants, children who were minor at the time of his death – Eviction suit by respondent- landlord – Application u/Ord. XII r.6 by the respondent seeking a ‘ on admission’ by relying on the deposition of the appellant, in another case where the appellant had admitted that the tenancy was in his mother’s name – Case of the respondent that since the mother died in 2009, the appellants not entitled to stay in the premises beyond the year 2014 in terms of s.2(g) of the 1997 Act, which protects the rights of the children and dependents of a tenant only for a limited period of five years – Case of the tenant that the tenancy was heritable as per s.2(h) of the 1956 Act, which was then in force, thus, could not be evicted based on the New Act; and that the appellants along with their mother had become tenants on the property in 1970 on the death of their father – Suit decreed by the trial court directing the tenant to vacate the suit property and hand over the possession to the respondent – Single Judge and the Division Bench of the High Court decreed the suit of the landlord on the basis of alleged admission by the appellant in another matter – Correctness: * Author [2024] 9 S.C.R. 645 Rajesh Mitra @ Rajesh Kumar Mitra & Anr. v. Karnani Properties Ltd. Held: Courts below ought not to have decreed the suit of the landlord on the basis of alleged “admission” by the appellant made in another unconnected matter – It does not pass muster the test of “admission” visualised in Ord. XII r.6 – Question and its answer are both mixed question of fact and law, a so called ‘admission’ against the law can never be an “admission” as visualised u/Ord. XII r.6 – It is not a ‘clear admission’ as is being made out – What has been given to the appellants under law cannot be taken away on the basis of an unclear deposition – There cannot be an admission against law – Furthermore, enforcement of a new statute ipso facto will not take away the rights already accrued under a repealed statute, unless this intention is reflected in the new statute – Courts can, and must, differ from the literal meaning of words if the reading of any provision provides absurd results – Ambiguous drafting leads to manifold problems and generates lengthy litigations – There is no clarity in the 1997 Act to suggest that it extinguishes the rights of all tenants, who inherited tenancy rights under Old Act retrospectively – Statutory laws operate from the date of their enforcement i.e., prospectively – In case the legislature intends to make law retrospective then such an intention of legislature must be shown clearly and unambiguously in the statute itself – Division Bench’s mere interpretation of a statutory provision will not make the law retrospective and take away the heritable rights of a tenant – Mother and the appellants jointly inherited the tenancy from the father, in the year 1970 – Thus, the impugned liable to be set aside as appellants’ tenancy did not expire in the year 2006, by the introduction of 1997 Act, in the absence of a clear and unequivocal intention in the 1997 Act to have a retrospective operation – s of the Single Judge and the Division Bench set aside – Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 – Ord.