In such cases the storage or possession of child pornographic material itself would sufficiently be indicative of the requisite intention either under Section 15 sub-section(s) (2) or (3) as the case may be, and there would be no requirement to adduce any additional material as long as the manner of storage or possession of such material or the attending circumstances itself is sufficiently indicative of such intention. 104. For illustration; say certain child pornographic material was found stored in five to six television devices in a hotel run by ‘A’. Here, because the pornographic material has been found to be stored in multiple devices that too at a place which has easy access for the public, the same would be indicative that the ‘A’ was using the hotel and the television devices therein as a means for facilitating display of such pornographic material, and thus, would be punishable under Section 15 sub-section (2) of the POCSO. 105. For another illustration say again certain child pornographic material were found stored in five to six television devices in a hotel run by [2024] 10 S.C.R. 227 Just Rights for Children Alliance & Anr. v. S. Harish & Ors. ‘A’, but this time some price was mentioned onto the pornographic material itself. Here, because some amount of money was found to be mentioned on the material itself and the said material was stored in a place with easy public access, the same would be indicative that the ‘A’ was using the hotel and the television devices therein as a means for facilitating display of such pornographic material in lieu of monetary gain, thus, would be punishable under Section 15 sub-section (3) of the POCSO. 106. The aforesaid illustrations have been provided only as a guiding example to highlight the distinction between sub-section(s) (1), (2) and (3) of Section 15 of the POCSO. These illustrations should not be mechanically applied or construed by any court in any proceeding while dealing with any matter involving Section 15 of the POCSO devoid of the context in which these illustrations have been given and without applying its mind as to whether the necessary ingredients have been established or not in the individual facts and circumstances of the matter. Any matter involving Section 15 sub-section (1), (2) or (3) of the POCSO, must be dealt with independent of the illustrations narrated above and stricto-sensu in accordance with only the ratio of this decision. 107. Lastly, we must also caution the police and the courts to be mindful of the fact that wherever in a given case a particular sub-section of Section 15 is found to be applicable, the other two remaining sub-sections of the said provision will cease to be applicable. Section 15 sub-section(s) (1), (2) and (3) respectively of the POCSO are independent and distinct offences. The three offences cannot coexist simultaneously in the same set of facts. They are distinct from each other and are not intertwined that they cannot survive without each other. This is because, the underlying distinction between Section 15 sub-section(s) (1), (2) and (3) respectively lies in the different degree of culpable mens rea that is required under each of the three provisions.