Para 9.9. 70 Article 8 – Awareness-raising 1. States Parties undertake to adopt immediate, effective and appropriate measures: a) To raise awareness throughout society, including at the family level, regarding persons with disabilities, and to foster respect for the rights and dignity of persons with disabilities; b) To combat stereotypes, prejudices and harmful practices relating to persons with disabilities, including those based on sex and age, in all areas of life; c) To promote awareness of the capabilities and contributions of persons with disabilities. 2. Measures to this end include: a) Initiating and maintaining effective public awareness campaigns designed: i. To nurture receptiveness to the rights of persons with disabilities; ii. To promote positive perceptions and greater social awareness towards persons with disabilities; iii. To promote recognition of the skills, merits and abilities of persons with disabilities, and of their contributions to the workplace and the labour market; b) Fostering at all levels of the education system, including in all children from an early age, an attitude of respect for the rights of persons with disabilities; c) Encouraging all organs of the media to portray persons with disabilities in a manner consistent with the purpose of the present Convention; d) Promoting awareness-training programmes regarding persons with disabilities and the rights of persons with disabilities. 71 OHCHR, Monitoring the Convention on the Rights of Person with Disabilities: Guidance for Human Rights Monitors Professional Training Series No. 17 ( 2010). https://www.ohchr.org/sites/default/files/ Documents/Publications/Disabilities_training_17EN.pdf [2024] 7 S.C.R. 273 Nipun Malhotra v. Sony Pictures Films India Private Limited & Ors. as autistic persons, deaf persons, blind persons, and persons with psychosocial disabilities, are less likely to interact with colleagues or be more productive due to fewer distractions. It is crucial to identify and eliminate value systems like ableism that underpin legislation, policies, and practices leading to inequality and discrimination. 50. Article 4.3 is significant for raising awareness.72 The CRPD Committee recommends that States parties implement systematic awareness- raising programs with the participation of Disabled Persons’ Organizations73 and Organizations of Persons with Disabilities.74 This is articulated in the General Comment 7 on Articles 4.3 and 33.3 which talk about the participation of persons with disabilities in the implementation and monitoring of the Convention75. The Comment states that these programs should include media campaigns that portray positive images of persons with disabilities, especially those with albinism, psychosocial and/or intellectual disabilities, and deaf- blind persons, as human rights holders. 76 51. Stereotypes, ableism, and misconceptions that prevent independent living for persons with disabilities must be eradicated, promoting a positive image of their contributions to society. Training programs for public-sector officials must align with the principles of the CRPD and the human rights model of disability to overcome entrenched gender and disability stereotypes. Awareness-raising should involve authorities, civil servants, professionals, the media, the general public, and persons with disabilities and their families, and should be carried out in close cooperation with representative organizations of persons with disabilities. 52. The CRPD requires member states to “closely consult with” and “actively involve” persons with disabilities through their organizations 72 Art 4 (2) CRPD states that: “With regard to economic, social and cultural rights, each State Party undertakes to take measures to the maximum of its available resources and, where needed, within the framework of international cooperation, with a view to achieving progressively the full realization of these rights, without prejudice to those obligations contained in the present convention that are immediately applicable according to international law.” 73 “DPO” 74 “OPDs” 75 See OHCHR, General Comment 7 on Article 4.3 and Article 33.3- the participation of persons with disabilities in the implementation and monitoring of the Convention, (CRPD/C/GC/7, 09 November 2018).