Since section 6A was predicated on the terms of the Assam Accord, it extended citizenship solely to immigrants in Assam because the Union of India had exclusively engaged in this accord with Assam. This serves as the basis of intelligible differentia vis-à-vis other States. As discussed earlier, in assessing the reasonableness of classification, the Court must ascertain whether relevant factors were considered and whether similarly situated individuals were grouped in alignment with the law’s objective. Both these criteria are met in this instance. Section 6A duly considered the pertinent factors, notably that the Assam Accord pertained solely to the State of Assam. Since a piquant situation such as that in Assam did not exist in any of the other States, Section 6A’s objective did not extend to allowing such citizenship in these other States. Hence, the classification between the State of Assam and other States had a direct nexus with the object of the statute. 190. The next question that arises before us is whether the Court should go one layer further and hold that since such an agreement was 1084 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports entered only with the State of Assam, the said exercise is liable to be construed as violative of Article 14 or whether the Union of India ought to have entered into similar agreements with other States? This has to be answered in the negative since such a determination falls outside the scope of judicial review, as this Court being not a representative body, should refrain from substituting its for that of the elected representatives. The decision to enter into political compromises and agreements is a prerogative of the political entities involved, based on the specific circumstances and negotiations at hand. In the case of Assam, the unique situation and the negotiations conducted between 1980 and 1985 led to the Assam Accord, wherein certain benefits were extended to the State. However, it may not be appropriate for us to venture into the exercise of analysing whether similar agreements should have been pursued with other States like West Bengal. 191. Apart from the cases discussed while analyzing Issue i (Judicial Review) (supra), such judicial restraint has also been advocated by foreign courts. Lord Ruskill, in a 5-judge bench of the House of Lords in Council for Civil Service Union v. Minister for the Civil Service,144 elucidated that: "(…) Prerogative powers such as those relating to the making of treaties, the defence of the realm, the prerogative of mercy, the grant of honours, the dissolution of Parliament and the appointment of ministers as well as others are not, I think susceptible to judicial review because their nature and subject matter are such as not to be amenable to the judicial process. The courts are not the place wherein to determine whether a treaty should be concluded or the armed forces disposed in a particular manner or Parliament dissolved on one date rather than another.” [Emphasis supplied] 192. Indeed, India’s federal structure allows for diverse relationships between the Union and its constituent States, enabling the Parliament to engage in different agreements based on distinct 144 Council for Civil Service Union v. Minister for the Civil Service, 1985 AC 374, para 177.