(i) The further question considered was, whether, a Court of law can a convict to remain in jail in default of payment of fine. It was observed that even in the absence of a specific provision in the law empowering a Court to imprisonment in default of payment of fine, such power is implicit and is possessed by a Court administering criminal justice. In this regard, reference was made to Sections 40 to 42 and Sections 63 to 70 IPC as well as Section 30of the CrPC which deals with a sentence of imprisonment in default of payment of fine and Section 25 of the General 896 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Clauses Act, 1897 which deals with recovery of fine. It was observed that even in the absence of a provision to the contrary viz. that no of imprisonment can be passed in default of payment of fine, such power is explicit and can always be exercised by a court having regard to Section 30 of the CrPC. (b) In Sharad Hiru Kolambe vs. State of Maharashtra, (2018) 18 SCC 718 (“Sharad Hiru Kolambe”), the point for consideration was regarding quantum of fine that was imposed by way of a default sentence in case of non-payment of fine. It was contended that though the substantive sentence stood remitted and the appellant was directed to be released on completion of fourteen years of actual sentence, the appellant would still be inside till he completes twenty-four years. This was because the trial court in the said case directed “all sentences shall run concurrently”, therefore, all default sentences must also run concurrently inter se. It was contended that the default sentences so directed was unconscionable and excessive. (i) This Court speaking through Lalit, J. (as the learned Chief Justice then was) observed that if the term of imprisonment in default of payment of fine is a penalty which a person incurs on account of non-payment of fine and is not a sentence in a strict sense, imposition of such default sentence is completely different and qualitatively distinct from a substantive sentence. Theoretically, if the default sentences awarded in respect of imposition of fine in connection with two or more offences are to be clubbed or directed to run concurrently, there would not be any occasion for the persons so sentenced to deposit the fine in respect of the second or further offences. It would effectively mean imposition of one single or combined sentence of fine. Such an exercise would render the very idea of imposition of fine with a deterrent stipulation while awarding sentence in default of payment of fine to be meaningless. If imposition of fine and prescription of mandatory minimum is designed to achieve a specific purpose, the very objective will get defeated if the default sentences were directed to run concurrently. Therefore, the contention regarding concurrent running of default [2024] 1 S.C.R. 897 Bilkis Yakub Rasool v. Union of India & Others sentences was rejected. It was observed that there is no power of the Court to the default sentences to run concurrently but if a prisoner does not pay the fine or refuses to pay the fine then he must undergo the default sentences so imposed.