6. In the instant case, the appellant without approaching the concerned court under Section 451, Cr.P.C, directly approached the High Court by filing Special Criminal Application under Article 226/227 of the Constitution of India, which could not be said to be the proper course [2024] 4 S.C.R. 611 Khengarbhai Lakhabhai Dambhala v. The State of Gujarat of action for getting the custody of the property i.e. the vehicle in question in this case. When there is a specific statutory provision contained in the Cr.P.C. empowering the criminal court to pass appropriate for the proper custody and disposal of the property pending the inquiry or trial, the appellant could not have invoked the extraordinary jurisdiction of the High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution of India seeking release of his vehicle. 7. The respondent State has also raised the contention that Section 98(2) of the said Act puts an embargo against release of the vehicle till the final of the court if the quantity of seized liquor is more than the prescribed quantity. Since, such contention is often raised, we deem it necessary to deal with the provisions contained in Section 98 of the Act also. Section 98 reads as under: - “98. Things liable to confiscation- (1) Whenever any offence punishable under this Act has been committed, (a) any intoxicant, hemp, mhowra flowers, molasses, materials, still, utensil, implement or apparatus in respect of which the offence has been committed, (b) where, in the case of an offence involving illegal possession, the offender has in his lawful possession any intoxicant, hemp, mhowra flowers or molasses other than those in respect of which an offence under this Act has been committed, the entire stock of such intoxicant, hemp, mhowra flowers, or molasses, (c) where, in the case of an offence of illegal import, export or transport, the offender has attempted to import, export or transport any intoxicant, hemp, mhowra flowers or molasses, in contravention of the provisions of this Act, rule, regulation or or in breach of a condition of a licence, permit, pass or authorization, the whole quantity of such intoxicant, hemp, mhowra flowers or molasses which he has attempted to import, export or transport, (d) where, in the case of an offence of illegal sale, the offender has in his lawful possession any intoxicant, hemp, mhowra flowers or molasses other than that in respect of which an offence has been committed, 612 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the whole of such other intoxicant, hemp, mhowra flowers or molasses, shall be confiscated by the of the Court. (2) Any receptacle, package or covering in which any of the articles liable to confiscation under sub-section (1) is found and the other contents of such receptacle, package or covering and the animals, carts, vessels or other conveyances used in, carrying any such article shall like- wise be liable to confiscation by the of the Court. [ but it shall not be released on bond or surety till the final judgement of the Court where the quantity of the seized liquor is exceeding the quantity as may be prescribed by the rules.