Digital Supreme Court Reports “31. Stated simply, “unjust enrichment” means retention of a benefit by a person that is unjust or inequitable. “Unjust enrichment” occurs when a person retains money or benefits which in justice, equity and good conscience, belong to someone else. 32. The doctrine of “unjust enrichment”, therefore, is that no person can be allowed to enrich inequitably at the expense of another. A right of recovery under the doctrine of “unjust enrichment” arises where retention of a benefit is considered contrary to justice or against equity. xxx xxx xxx 45. From the above discussion, it is clear that the doctrine of “unjust enrichment” is based on equity and has been accepted and applied in several cases. ...” (Emphasis supplied) 109. Thus, from the aforesaid, it is clear that the concept of ‘Unjust Enrichment’ is a by-product of the doctrine of equity and it is an equally well settled cannon of law that equity always follows the law. In other words, equity cannot supplant the law, equity has to follow the law if the law is clear and unambiguous. 110. This Court in C. Natarajan (supra) had held that forfeiture of 25% of the deposit does not constitute as an unjust enrichment with the following relevant observations being reproduced below: - “35. In the light of guidance provided by the above decisions, what needs to be ascertained first is whether the Bank received or derived any benefit or advantage by forfeiture of 25% of the sale price. We do not think that the Bank has been enriched, much less unjustly enriched, by reason of the impugned forfeiture. Receipt of 25% of the sale price by the Bank from the contesting respondent was not the outcome of any private negotiation or arrangement between them. It was pursuant to a public auction, involving a process of offer and acceptance, and it was in terms of statutory provisions contained in the Rules, particularly rule 9(3), that money changed hands for a definite purpose. Receipt of 25% of the sale price does not constitute a benefit, a fortiori, retention thereof by [2024] 2 S.C.R. 85 The Authorised Officer, Central Bank of India v. Shanmugavelu forfeiture cannot be termed unjust or inequitable, so as to attract the doctrine of unjust enrichment. The Bank, as a secured creditor, is entitled in law to enforce the security interest and in the process to initiate all such steps and take all such measures for protection of public interest by recovering the public money, lent to a borrower and who has squandered it, in a manner authorized by law. The contesting respondent participated in the auction well and truly aware of the risk of having 25% of the sale price forfeited in case of any default or failure on his part to make payment of the balance amount of the sale price. Question of the Bank being enriched by a forfeiture, which is in the nature of a statutory penalty, does not and cannot therefore arise in the circumstances.” (Emphasis supplied) 111.