The purpose of law is to promote for the benefit of the citizen and to protect rights and entitlements guaranteed by the Constitution and by statute. Access to justice as a means of securing fundamental freedoms and realising socio-economic entitlements is complementary to the work of other organs of the State. The modern doctrine of separation of powers has moved away from a “one organ - one function” approach, to a more realistic perspective which recognises the complementarity in the work which is performed by institutions of governance. Judicial review is founded on the need to ensure accountable governance in the administration of law as an instrument of realising the rights guaranteed by the Constitution. If the function of judicial review in facilitating the realisation of socio-economic rights is construed in the context of the modern notion of separation of powers, there is no real conflict between the independence of the judicial process and its reliance on published reports of Parliamentary Committees. Ultimately it is for the court in each case to determine the relevance of a report to the case at hand and the extent to which reliance can be placed upon it to facilitate access to justice. Reports of Parliamentary Committees become part of the published record of the State. As a matter of principle, there is no reason or justification to exclude them from the purview of the judicial process, for purposes such as understanding the historical background of a law, the nature of the problem, the causes of a social evil and the remedies which may provide answers to intractable problems of governance. The court will in the facts of a case determine when a matter which is contentious between the parties would have to be adjudicated [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1925 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. upon independently on the basis of the evidence adduced in accordance with law. 276. In the circumstances, the reference is answered by holding that: 276.1. As a matter of principle, there is no reason why reliance upon the report of a Parliamentary Standing Committee cannot be placed in proceedings under Article 32 or Article 136 of the Constitution; 276.2. Once the report of a Parliamentary Committee has been published, reference to it in the course of judicial proceedings will not constitute a breach of parliamentary privilege; 276.3. The validity of the report of a Parliamentary Committee cannot be called into question in the court. No Member of Parliament or person can be made liable for what is stated in the course of the proceedings before a Parliamentary Committee or for a vote tendered or given; and 276.4. When a matter before the court assumes a contentious character, a finding of fact by the court must be premised on the evidence adduced in the judicial proceeding as explained in paras 265 and 274.” The final conclusions of the Bench were as follows: “449.1. According to clause (2) of Article 105 of Constitution of India no Member of Parliament can be held liable for anything said by him in Parliament or in any committee.