In respect of the Robe Allowance (Serial No 17), the SNJPC recommended that such a demand would not be entertained by the next JPC. Twelve out of the twenty-one allowances form the subject matter of a recommendation either by the Sixth or, as the case may be, Seventh Central Pay Commission either on the same or on revised rates. 9. At the outset, it needs to be clarified that since the SNJPC has proposed a revision of the existing rates as applicable, the States/ Union Territories shall continue to pay the allowances at the rates which were applicable in respect of each allowance where the SNJPC has recommended that the revised rates shall come into effect later than 1 January 2016. Objections by the Union Government and State Governments: 10. Before we deal with each individual allowance, it would be necessary to record that, broadly speaking, the objections which have been raised by the States, Union Territories and the Union Government can be classified into three categories : (a) The revision of rates or, as the case may be, the new allowances will result in an increased financial burden and expenditure; (b) The rules governing the payment of allowances prescribed by each State for their own administrative establishment must be followed; and (c) the benefits which are provided to judicial officers must be equivalent to those provided to other Government officers. 11. The submissions urged on behalf of the States have been considered in several previous s of this Court, more specifically in relation to the recommendations of the SNJPC itself. On the aspect of the [2024] 1 S.C.R. 337 All India Judges Association v. Union of India & Ors increased financial burden and additional expenditure, this Court, in its dated 5 April 2023, relied on the earlier decision in the All India Judges Associationv.Union of India (II)5 andheld that contentions regarding the financial implications of the directions are liable to be rejected when the directions stem from the obligation of the state. In other words, a plea of financial burden cannot be raised to resist mandatory duties of the state. Providing necessary service conditions for the effective discharge of judicial functions is one such duty. The observations in that regard are contained in paragraph 19 of the dated 05 April 20236. 12. The same objection was dealt with in the subsequent of this Court dated 19 May 2023 at paragraph 26.7 The Court noted that the issue of financial burden has been examined in these very proceedings on at least three occasions and that this Court had earlier expressed the hope that it will not be re-agitated in view of All India Judges Association vs Union of India (II)8. 13. Judicial service is an integral and significant component of the functions of the State and contributes to the constitutional obligation to sustain the rule of law. Judicial service is distinct in its characteristics and in terms of the responsibilities which are cast upon the officers of the District Judiciary to render objective dispensation of justice 5 (1993) 4 SCC 288.