In our view since the subject matter is same, i.e., what amounts to “input” though the end use is for two different products, one tangible, in the form of final manufactured product, and one intangible i.e., output service, applying similar tests to determine what amounts to “input” would not be impermissible. 11.12.4 We have also noted that the Bombay High Court had taken the view that it cannot be said that it is impossible to provide the service without the aid of the towers, thus showing non dependency of antenna on tower. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1599 M/s Bharti Airtel Ltd. v. The Commissioner of Central Excise, Pune In our view, while theoretically antenna may receive and transmit signal without the tower, practically, the same is not feasible and tower is an essential accessory for keeping the antenna at an appropriate height and in a stable position so that there is no disturbance in receiving and transmission of signal and there can be wider coverage of signal. The link between antenna and tower is almost inseparable for the effective functioning of antenna for providing mobile telecommunication service and it cannot be said that the nexus between antenna and tower is remote. Rather, in our view, their relationship is quite proximate and inseparable for proper functioning of antenna. In this regard, we have noted the decision of the Gujarat High Court in Industrial Machinery Manufacturers Pvt. Ltd. vs. State of Gujarat (1965) 16 STC 380 (Guj) wherein the Gujarat High Court held that humidifiers which are used by the textile mills for improving the quality of the yarn produced in general, and even though humidifiers were essentially electric motors and not directly connected with the manufacturing process of yarns, yet these were considered to be machineries for use in the manufacture of yarn. The said finding by the Gujarat High Court was based on the essentiality of the humidifiers. By applying the same principle in the present case, towers and PFBs though themselves are not electrical equipment, are essential for proper functioning of antenna. Thus tower being essential to rendering of output service of mobile telephony, these items certainly can be considered to be “inputs” akin to antenna. Without the towers and the PFBs, there cannot be proper service of mobile telecommunication. Hence, these certainly would come within the definition of “input” under Rule 2(k)(ii). 11.12.5 What we have noted also is that the CESTAT rejected the plea of the Assessee that towers and parts thereof are inputs under Rule 2(k) by observing that the towers are admittedly immovable structures and hence ipso facto non- marketable and non-excisable and these do not lead to manufacture of goods and that towers and PFBs certainly are not used for providing mobile services. By relying on 1600 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Explanation-2 to Rule 2(k) which provides that input includes goods used in the manufacture of capital goods which are further used in the factory of the manufacturer, the CESTAT held that these items are not inputs.