It was further held that, any subsequent amendment in the Motor Vehicles Act or a total repeal of the Motor Vehicles Act under a fresh legislation on that topic would also not affect the definition of ‘motor vehicle’ in Section 2(c) of the Orissa Taxation Act. 31. This Court unequivocally held that the intention of Parliament for modifying the Motor Vehicles Act had no relevance in determining the intention of the Orissa Legislature in enacting the Orissa Taxation Act. This Court held that the dumpers and rockers, which were used by the miners in their premises though registrable under the Motor Vehicles Act were not taxable under the Orissa Taxation Act as long as they were working solely within the premises of the respective owners. 32. In the case of Mahindra and Mahindra Ltd. (supra), Section 55 of the Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices Act, 1969 (“MRTP Act, 1969” for short) provided that any person aggrieved by an made by the Commission under Section 13 may prefer an appeal to the Supreme Court on ‘one or more of the grounds specified in Section 100 of the CPC’. Section 100 of the CPC at the time of the incorporation of the MRTP Act specified three grounds on which a second appeal could be brought to the High Court and one of the grounds was that the decision appealed against was contrary to law. However, by the Code of Civil Procedure (Amendment) Act, 1976 with effect from February 1, 1977, it was provided that a second appeal shall lie to the High Court only if the High Court is satisfied that the case involves a substantial question of law. It was sought to be argued that substitution of the new Section 100 amounted to repeal and re-enactment of the former Section 100 and therefore the reference in Section 55 of the MRTP Act, 1969 to Section 100 of CPC must be construed as reference to the new Section 100 and 24 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the appeal would be tenable only on ground specified in the new Section 100 of CPC i.e., on a substantial question of law. 33. Rejecting the said contention, this Court observed thus: “8. The first question that arises for consideration on the preliminary objection of the respondents is as to what is the true scope and ambit of an appeal under Section 55. That section provides inter alia that any person aggrieved by an made by the Commission under Section 13 may prefer an appeal to this Court on “one or more of the grounds specified in Section 100 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908”. Now at the date when Section 55 was enacted, namely, December 27, 1969, being the date of coming into force of the Act, Section 100 of the Code of Civil Procedure specified three grounds on which a second appeal could be brought to the High Court and one of these grounds was that the decision appealed against was contrary to law.