Digital Supreme Court Reports be read independent of the words a “formal defect” and clause (a). Court has been given a wider discretion to allow withdrawal from suit in the interest of justice in cases where such a prayer is not covered by clause (a). Since in the present case, we are only concerned with “formal defect” envisaged under clause (a) of Rule 1 sub-rule (3), we choose not to elaborate any further on the ground contemplated under clause (b), that is, “sufficient grounds”.” (Emphasis supplied) 44. The main purpose of permitting the withdrawal of a suit and its re-filing is to ensure that justice is not thwarted due to technicalities. Where permission under 23 Rule 1 is granted, the principle of estoppel does not operate and the principle of res judicate would also not apply. However, 23 Rule 1 is not intended to enable the plaintiff to get a chance to commence litigation afresh in to avoid the results of his previous suit, or to engage in multiple proceedings with the motive of bench-hunting. 45. 23 Rule 2 stipulates that any fresh suit instituted on permission granted under 23 Rule 1 shall be governed by the law of limitation in the same manner as if the first suit had not been instituted. The object underlying this Rule is to prevent a party from misusing the liberty of filing a fresh suit for evading the limitation period governing the said suit. The said rule is reproduced hereinbelow: “2. Limitation law not affected by first suit.—In any fresh suit instituted on permission granted under the last preceding rule, the plaintiff shall be bound by the law of limitation in the same manner as if the first suit had not been instituted.” 46. Undoubtedly, an application under Section 11(6) of the Act, 1996 is not a suit and hence will not be governed stricto-sensu by 23 Rule 1 of the CPC. However, in a number of decisions, this Court has extended the principle underlying 23 Rule 1 to proceedings other than suits on the ground of public policy underlying the said rule. The appellant has submitted that in view of the aforesaid decisions, there is no reason why the principles of 23 Rule 1 should not be extended to an application for appointment of arbitrator under Section 11(6) of the Act, 1996. 47. A two-Judge Bench of this Court in Sarguja Transport Service v. State Transport Appellate Tribunal, M.P., Gwalior and Others [2024] 12 S.C.R. 167 M/s HPCL Bio-Fuels Ltd. v. M/s Shahaji Bhanudas Bhad reported in (1987) 1 SCC 5 while elaborating upon the principle underlying 23 Rule 1 of CPC, extended them to writ petitions under Articles 226 and 227. Relevant observations from the said decision are as follows: “7. […] The principle underlying Rule 1 of XXIII of the Code is that when a plaintiff once institutes a suit in a court and thereby avails of a remedy given to him under law, he cannot be permitted to institute a fresh suit in respect of the same subject-matter again after abandoning the earlier suit or by withdrawing it without the permission of the court to file fresh suit.