The Chairman and the Vice-Chairman of the Governing Body shall be the members of the Church of North India. Out of categories (a) and (m) in clause (1), only category (k) may be a member of the teaching staff who may not be a Christian. Two members referred under category (l) to be appointed by the Delhi University may not be Christian and likewise, under the category (n) may not be Christian. But the remaining members shall be Christians. Out of thirteen categories, only three categories might be non-Christians and therefore, it makes little difference in the Christian character of the Governing Body of the College. A comparison of Statute 30(c) of the Delhi University at pages 127-28 of Calendar Volume I will show the difference between the Governing Body of other colleges under the Statute as contrasted with St. Stephen’s College. Principal 39. It is again significant to note the difference between the method of appointment of the Principal of St. Stephen’s College and all other colleges. The Principal of St. Stephen’s College is appointed by the Supreme Council and he must be a Christian belonging to Church of North India (Rule 4). He will exercise control, and maintain discipline and regulation of the College. He will be in complete charge of the admissions in the College assisted by admission committee. But the Principals of other affiliated colleges under Ordinance XVIII clause 7(2) [page 335 Calendar Volume I] are to be appointed by the Governing Body of the College. 40. The immovable property of the College shall be vested in the Indian Church trustees, who shall merely act as Trustees, and shall have no power of management whatsoever. All other property connected with the College shall be vested in the Society (Rule 21).” [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1977 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. 142. During the examination of the particular college under consideration, the Court observes that the institution was established by missionaries with the primary purpose of providing Christian religious education - as per paragraph 30. It also observes that the assets and property of the college are legally owned by the church - as described in paragraph 40. The Court also notes that at the time of its inception, the college was under the exclusive management of a body composed entirely of Christians - as outlined in paragraph 35. The Court notices that the rules of the institution’s society stipulate that all members must be appointed by Christian organizations - as mentioned in paragraph 35. The Court lays specific emphasis on the fact that the administration of the college is also entrusted to a body comprised entirely of Christians - as indicated in paragraph 36. The Court notes that the Principal of the college holds an ex-officio position and is required to be a Christian - according to paragraph 39. As far as historical factors are concerned, the Court notes that the construction of the college building was commissioned by a minority community and funded by them - as detailed in paragraphs 31-34.