Digital Supreme Court Reports Schedule of the Constitution. The issue before this Court was whether the amendments violated the basic structure of the Constitution. 49. Chief Justice A N Ray held that the constitutional validity of a statute depends entirely on the existence of the legislative power and the express provision in Article 13. Since the legislation is not subject to any other constitutional limitation, applying the basic structure doctrine to test the validity of a statute will amount to “rewriting the Constitution.”52 The learned Judge further observed that application of the undefinable theory of basic structure to test the validity of a statute would denude legislatures of the power of legislation and deprive them of laying down legislative policies.53 Justice K K Mathew similarly observed that the concept of a basic structure is “too vague and indefinite to provide a yardstick to determine the validity of an ordinary law.”54 Justice Y V Chandrachud (as the learned Chief Justice then was) observed that constitutional amendment and ordinary laws operate in different fields and are subject to different limitations.55 50. The majority in Indira Nehru Gandhi (supra) held that the constitutional validity of a statute cannot be challenged for the violation of the basic structure doctrine. However, Justice M H Beg (as the learned Chief Justice then was) dissented with the majority view by observing that the basic structure test can be used to test 52 Indira Nehru Gandhi (supra) [134] and [137] 53 Indira Nehru Gandhi (supra) [136] [“136. The theory of basic structures or basic features is an exercise in imponderables. Basic structures or basic features are indefinable. The legislative entries are the fields of legislation. The pith and substance doctrine has been applied in to find out legislative competency, and eliminate encroachment on legislative entries. If the theory of basic structures or basic features will be applied to legislative measures it will denude Parliament and State Legislatures of the power of legislation and deprive them of laying down legislative policies. This will be encroachment on the separation of powers.”] 54 Indira Nehru Gandhi (supra) [357] 55 Indira Nehru Gandhi (supra) [691] and [692]. [“691 […] The constitutional amendments may, on the ratio of the Fundamental Rights case, be tested on the anvil of basic structure. But apart from the principle that a case is only an authority for what it decides, it does not logically follow from the majority in the Fundamental Rights case that ordinary legislation must also answer the same test as a constitutional amendment. Ordinary laws have to answer two tests for their validity: (1) The law must be within the legislative competence of the legislature as defined and specified in Chapter I, Part XI of the Constitution, and (2) it must not offend against the provisions of Article 13(1) and (2) of the Constitution. “Basic structure”, by the majority , is not a part of the fundamental rights nor indeed a provision of the Constitution. The theory of basic structure is woven out of the conspectus of the Constitution and the amending power is subjected to it because it is a constituent power.