However, after the 1993 Amendment to the DMC Act, the term ‘Aldermen’ was dropped and substituted by the descriptive language-‘persons who have special knowledge and experience in municipal administration’. 12 “3. Establishment of the Corporation (1) With effect from such date as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint, there shall be a Corporation charged with the municipal government of Delhi, to be known as the Municipal Corporation of Delhi. (2) The Corporation shall be a body corporate with the name aforesaid having perpetual succession and a common seal with power, subject to the provisions of this Act, to acquire, hold and dispose of property and may by the said name sue and be sued. (3) The Corporation shall consist of eighty councillors chosen by direct election on the basis of adult suffrage from various wards into which Delhi shall be divided in accordance with the provisions of section 5: Provided that twelve out of the eighty seats of councillors shall be reserved for the members of the Scheduled Castes.” Gazette of India Extraordinary, Jan-Dec 1957, Part 2 Section 2 pg. 552. [2024] 8 S.C.R. 213 Government of NCT of Delhi v. Office of Lieutenant Governor of Delhi 1957. However, when the Act was notified on 28th December, 1957, Section 313 relating to Constitution of the Corporation comprised of councillors as well as Aldermen was introduced. The procedure for election of Aldermen was provided in Section 1314 of the Act, as per which they were to be elected by the councillors from persons who are qualified to be councillors, but were neither councillors nor had contested in the election to the post of councillors. Constitution (Sixty-Ninth) Amendment and establishment of Legislative Assembly for NCTD and introduction of Articles 239AA and 239AB: 9. A little after three decades of passing of the DMC Act, the Union Government felt the need to reorganize the administrative and municipal authorities in the Union Territory of Delhi and constituted a committee (popularly referred to as the Balakrishnan Committee) to study and make recommendations on the same. The Committee recommended the decentralization of Delhi administration and the constitution of a legislative assembly for NCTD by way of a Constitutional Amendment. In so far as municipal administration is concerned, the Committee inter-alia touched upon the then position relating to election of Aldermen and made certain recommendations.15 13 “3. Establishment of the Corporation (1) With effect from such date as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint, there shall be a Corporation charged with the municipal government of Delhi, to be known as the Municipal Corporation of Delhi. (2) The Corporation shall be a body corporate with the name aforesaid having perpetual succession and a common seal with power, subject to the provisions of this Act, to acquire, hold and dispose of property and may by the said name sue and be sued. (3) The Corporation shall be composed of councillors and aldermen. (4) ……… (5) ……… (6) ……… (7) The total number of aldermen shall always be six.” Gazette of India Extraordinary, Jan-Dec 1957, Part 2 Section 1 pg.