y The expression “plant or machinery” has not been defined under the CGST Act. The definition of “plant and machinery” provided in the explanation to Section 17 will not apply to the expression “plant or machinery”. Since the legislature has intentionally used two different expressions in clauses (c) and (d) of Section 17(5), different meanings will have to be assigned to these expressions. y Clauses (c) and (d) of Section 17(5) give unequal treatment to unequals. Though they may appear to be similar, they are quite different from each other. Besides using different expressions, clauses (c) and (d) use a completely different 808 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports language. Clause (c) applies to the works contract, which will not per se apply to clause (d). The classes of cases covered by clauses (c) and (d) of Section 17(5) are two separate classes and the same cannot be treated equally. b. Secondly, it is submitted that malls, hotels, warehouses, etc., are ‘plants’ and, therefore, are exempted from the provision. The submissions in relation to this can be summarised as follows: y The word “plant” is not defined under the CGST Act or the General Clauses Act, 1897. It is also not defined in any of the State GST enactments. Reliance was placed on a decision of this Court in the case of Indcon Structurals (P) Ltd. v. Commissioner of Central Excise, Chennai17 in support of the proposition that the words and expressions in taxing statute unless defined in the statute itself, have to be understood in the sense that the person dealing with them understands them as per the trade understanding, commercial and technical practice and usage. Reliance was also placed on a decision of this Court in the case of CIT, Andhra Pradesh v. Taj Mahal Hotel, Secunderabad18 wherein this court held that the word “plant” means land, building, machinery, apparatus and fixtures employed in carrying on trade and other industrial business. y Functionality or essentiality tests must be applied to decide what a plant is. Ultimately, a plant is an apparatus used by a businessman for carrying on his business. It does not include his stock in trade, but it does include all goods and property, whether movable or immovable. Apart from holding that a generating station building, hospital, and pond are plants, this Court has also held that even a dry dock is a plant. A building or a warehouse must be considered a ‘plant’ within the meaning of Section 17(5)(d) if it serves as an essential tool of trade with which business is carried on. However, if it merely serves as a setting in which business is carried on, it will not qualify as a ‘plant’. 17 [2006] Supp. 1 SCR 11 : (2006) 4 SCC 786 18 [1972] 1 SCR 168 : (1971) 3 SCC 550 [2024] 10 S.C.R. 809 Chief Commissioner of Central Goods and Service Tax & Ors. v. M/s Safari Retreats Private Ltd. & Ors. y Since buildings have been specifically excluded from the definition of “plant and machinery” in the explanation to sub-section (5) of Section 17, the word ‘plant’ in the expression ‘plant or machinery’ must be taken in its natural sense, which will include buildings.