Dr Ambedkar noted the importance of such instructions in the following terms: “The inclusion of such instructions in a Constitution such as is proposed in the Draft becomes justifiable for another reason. The Draft Constitution as framed only provides a machinery for the government of the country. It is not a contrivance to install any particular party in power as has been done in some countries. Who should be in power is left to be determined by the people, as it must be, if the system is to satisfy the [2024] 11 S.C.R. 137 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. tests of democracy. But whoever captures power will not be free to do what he likes with it. In the exercise of it, he will have to respect these instruments of instructions which are called Directive Principles. He cannot ignore them. He may not have to answer for their breach in a Court of Law. But he will certainly have to answer for them before the electorate at election time. What great value these directive principles possess will be realized better when the forces of right contrive to capture power.” (emphasis supplied) 151. On 19 November 1948, the Constituent Assembly discussed some of the provisions in Part IV of the draft Constitution. An amendment was moved by Mr Damodar Swarup Seth to draft article 30, which corresponds to Article 38 of the present constitution, in the following terms: “Sir, I move that for article 30, the following be substituted: “30. The State shall endeavour to promote the welfare, prosperity and progress of the people by establishing and maintaining democratic socialist and for the purpose the State shall direct its policy towards securing :— (a) the transfer to public ownership of important means of communication, credit and exchange, mineral resources and the resources, of natural power and such other large economic enterprise as are matured for socialisation;* (b) the municipalisation of public utilities; (c) the encouragement of the organisation of agriculture, credit and industries on co-operative basis.” 152. Mr Seth advanced the view that the principles laid down in draft article 30 must be made more specific and convey a clear indication about the ‘economic nature of the social to be established’. He was of the view that the provision must expressly state an endeavour to establish and maintain a ‘democratic socialist ’, which in his view, was necessary to mitigate the ‘capitalistic ’ He opined: 138 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “Sir, my reason for submitting this amendment is that I feel that as it is worded, the article is somewhat indefinite and vague, and does not convey any clear indication as to the economic nature of the social to be established. We all know that the society in which we now live is of a capitalistic or character and in this society we see the exploiter and exploited classes both existing side by side; and the exploiting class is naturally the top-dog and the exploited class the under-dog.