2149 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons (h) for any incidental or supplementary matters, including, in particular, the grant or issue of licences, permits or other documents and the charging of fees therefor. 15.9 Sub-section (4) of Section 18G provides that no made in exercise of any power conferred under Section 18G shall be called in question in any court. Thus, a notified may be issued by the Central Government bearing in mind the situations and conditions which may arise in the Indian economy pertaining to a particular scheduled industry. Article 254, Repugnancy and Doctrine of Occupied Field: 16. There is also a further angle to the matter in the context of concurrent powers of Parliament and State Legislatures vis-à-vis Entry 33(a) – List III and Article 254 of the Constitution. Nicholas in his Australian Constitution, 2nd Edition, page 303, refers to three tests of inconsistency or repugnancy: (i) There may inconsistency in the actual terms of the competing statutes; (ii) Though there may be no direct conflict, a State law may be inoperative because the commonwealth law; or commonwealth court is intended to be a complete exhaustive Code; and (iii) Even in the absence of intention, a conflict may arise when both State and commonwealth seek to exercise their powers over the same subject matter.” 16.1 In Tika Ramji, this Court accepted the above three rules evolved by Nicholas, among others, as a useful guide to test the question of repugnancy. The same was also quoted by this Court in M/s. Hoechst Pharmaceuticals Ltd. vs. State of Bihar, AIR 1983 SC 1019 (“Hoechst Pharmaceuticals Ltd.”). In the said case, it was observed that the question of repugnancy between a law made by Parliament and a law made by the State Legislature arises only in case both the legislations occupy the same field with respect to one of the matters enumerated in the Concurrent List and there is direct conflict between the two laws. It is only when both these requirements are fulfilled that the State law will, to the extent of repugnancy, become void. Article 254(1) has no application to cases of repugnancy due to overlapping found between List II on the one hand and Lists I and III on 2150 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the other. If such overlapping exists in any particular case, the State law would be ultra vires because of non-obstante clause in Article 246(1) read with the opening words “subject” in Article 246(3). In such a case, the State law will fail not because of repugnance to the Union law but due to want of legislative competence. Thus, the question of repugnancy arises only when both the Legislatures are competent to legislate in the same field, that is, with respect to one of the matters mentioned in the Concurrent List. Hence, Article 254(1) cannot apply unless both the Union and the State laws relate to a subject specified in the Concurrent List and they occupy the same field.