He also admitted that his relatives were residing around 4 km from the place of incident at Nagaral. However, he chose not to inform them either. He also admitted that he took no steps to provide medical treatment to PW-4 who was lying unconscious at the place of incident as a result of the assault. The said fact could have been entertained if the place of incident was completely secluded. Such is not the case, as it is admitted that the place of incident fell on a bus route and buses were indeed plying. 28. It was almost 18 hours after the assault that PW-3 managed to reach Aidbhavi to inform PW-2 about the incident. The High Court found the conduct of PW-3 to be perfectly natural, as it was understandable that PW-3 wanted to inform PW-2 before anyone else. Such conduct would have been justified if PW-2 was residing in close proximity of the place of incident. The very fact that PW-3 did not even contemplate about providing medical help to PW-4 or to seek protection from the local police despite such a drastic assault and instead, chose to wait for 18 hours, raises a reasonable doubt on the credibility of his version. This circumstance assumes a greater importance in light of the fact that PW4 was the cousin brother of PW3 and not some stranger. The conduct of PW-3 was not that of a reasonable man placed in such circumstances and the Trial Court was right in terming it as artificial. 29. The conduct of PW-3 renders his very presence at the place of incident as doubtful. Despite a heavy assault by multiple accused persons, he did not suffer any injury at all. That too when he was indeed chased by A3 while attacking PW-4. It is extremely doubtful that the assailants simply chose to give up on PW-3 and did not pursue him behind the bushes, despite knowing that PW-3 could turn out to be an eye witness of the incident. The story that follows the story of hiding behind the bushes is equally doubtful and leaves one speculating. The timelines, the route taken by PW-3, complete disregard for severely injured PW-4, failure to inform the police post despite access to it etc. are some of the factors that raise a reasonable doubt on the entire story. The chain of circumstances created by the testimony of PW-3 is not consistent with the outcome of guilt. 304 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 30. The version of PW-4 is that he was attacked from the back by A3 and thereafter, he fell unconscious. As per his testimony and the testimony of PW-3, PW-4 was attacked by an axe on his head, back and scrotum. The first point of corroboration is to be seen from the circumstances following the assault. The assault on PW-4 took place at around 4 P.M. and he was admittedly unconscious thereafter. He remained as such until he was “self-admitted” in the hospital at around 12:30 P.M. the following day.