Thereafter, a gazette notification was published on 06.06.1936 promulgating the Government of India (Scheduled Castes) 1936 notifying the list of castes that were to be considered as “the Scheduled Castes” across the territory of India. The post constitutional exercise by the Constitution (Scheduled Castes) 1950 and Constitution (Scheduled Tribes), 1950, as originally enacted under Articles 341 and 342 of the Constitution was basically an exercise in recasting the Schedule to the 1935 Act. The relevant clauses of the said two Presidential s were in the following terms: “Clause 2 of the Constitution (Scheduled Castes) , 1950 2. Subject to the provisions of this , the castes, races or tribes or parts of, or groups within, castes or tribes specified in Parts I to XXV of the Schedule to this shall, in relation to the States to which those Parts respectively relate, be deemed to be Scheduled Castes so far as regards member thereof resident in the localities specified in relation to them in those Parts of that Schedule. Clause 2 of the Constitution (Scheduled Tribes) , 1950 2. The Tribes or tribal communities, or parts of, or groups within, tribes or tribal communities, specified in Parts I to XXII of the Schedule to this shall, in relation to the States to which those Parts respectively relate, be deemed to be Scheduled Tribes so far as regards members thereof [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1621 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. residents in the localities specified in relation to them respectively in those Parts of that Schedule”. 43. The subsequent amendments to the aforesaid two s, from time to time were made to bring the position in tune with the amendments to the First Schedule to the Constitution made at different points of time by creation of new States andalterations in the area and boundaries of existing States. 44. As discussed earlier, the Presidential s made under Article 341(1) or Article 342(1) enumerating the lists of castes/ races, tribes recognized as “Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes” cannot be altered or varied by any State or any authority including the Court. It is Parliament alone which has been vestedwith the powers to so act, that too, by law made, as well settled by catena of decisions discussed hereinabove. 45. The very language employed in Article 341 that “the castes, races or tribes or parts of or groups within castes, races or tribes, shall for the purposes of the Constitution be deemed to be Scheduled Castes in relation to that State or Union Territory, as the case may be”, mandates that each caste, each race, each tribe or each part of or group within the castes, races or tribes shall by the deeming fiction be the“Scheduled Castes” for the purposes of the Constitution, irrespective of the parameters by which such caste/ race or tribe is recognised as “Scheduled Caste” in relation to that State. Though the members of “Scheduled Castes” are drawn from different castes, races and tribes, they attain special status by virtue of Presidential Notification under Article 341.