– Nothing contained in this Act shall apply to workmen employed in an industrial establishment engaged in the construction of buildings, bridges, roads, canals, dams or other construction work whether structural, mechanical or electrical.” The language of the provision is clear. It implies that this act shall not apply to those workmen who are engaged in the construction of buildings and the like or other construction work be it structural, mechanical, or electrical. Therefore, those establishments and their workmen shall be exempt, who are engaged exclusively, in the work of construction. The objectives of the Corporation, which have been reproduced15 in the affidavit of the Union before the High Court, state:- 15 Page 137 of the paperbook in SLP (c) 2649 of 2020 610 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “ x x x iii) To undertake the designing and construction of hospitals and other buildings for the Government, or any other person including local authorities, corporations, societies, trusts, companies firms and individuals. …” 24. This, however, in our view would not allow the Corporation to wash its hands off the responsibilities or obligations under the Act, since the construction to be undertaken by the Corporation, is only one of the many activities to be undertaken by it. To take all the workers out of the purview of the Act, especially, when the said workers, like the members of the respondent union, were not the ones undertaking construction is unwarranted. 25. It was further argued that many of the persons directed to be granted permanent employment by the of the Inspector of Labour have found profitable employment elsewhere, and as such the SLP on their behalf should be dismissed. We cannot accept this submission. Simply because some of the persons involved in the employment dispute have allegedly found other employment, that does not justify a dismissal of others’ claims. Per the written submissions of the appellants in the appeal arising out of SLP(C)No.2649 of 2020, twelve appellants have approached this court. And therefore, it must be seen to its logical conclusion. 26. It was argued before the Courts below that the respondents had not continued in service after a certain point in time, however, the said argument was not accepted and we find no reason to take a different view on fact which since the year 1997 remains proven and recognized by the Courts. 27. As such, both requirements, of the establishment being covered under the definition of industrial establishment as provided and that of the employee having uninterruptedly continued in service for 480 days or more for 24 months, having been met we have no hesitation in holding that the Act would apply to the parties to the present dispute. [2024] 5 S.C.R. 611 Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation Limited v. Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation Employees Welfare Union & Anr. 28. The next question to be considered is whether the High Court on remand, could have ignored the of the Inspector of Labour and suggested that the employees raise an industrial dispute questioning their non-employment.