105 M/S Bharti Airtel Limited v. A.S. Raghavendra [herein, the Government of Karnataka] referred the dispute to the Labour Court under Section 10(1)(c)3, ID Act on 27.06.2013. Pleadings were completed and witnesses were examined by both sides. 5. On 05.09.2017, the Labour Court made its Award recording findings of fact and held that the respondent had failed to plead or prove that he was a “workman” and that on an assessment of the evidence on record, he was performing the role of a Manager and thus was not a “workman” within the meaning of Section 2(s), ID Act, and accordingly rejected the reference. Aggrieved, the respondent filed Writ Petition No.13842 of 2018 (L-TER) before the High Court challenging the Labour Court’s Award and the learned Single Judge by and dated 29.11.2019, partly allowed the writ petition, relying upon the of this Court in Ved Prakash Gupta v Delton Cable India (P.) Ltd., (1984) 2 SCC 569. The learned Single Judge held that since there was an absence of power in the respondent, whilst the Unit Trust of India Act, 1963 (52 of 1963), or the Food Corporation of India established under Section 3, or a Board of Management established for two or more contiguous States under Section 16 of the Food Corporations Act, 1964 (37 of 1964), or the Airports Authority of India constituted under Section 3 of the Airports Authority of India Act, 1994 (55 of 1994), or a Regional Rural Bank established under Section 3 of the Regional Rural Banks Act, 1976 (21 of 1976), or the Export Credit and Guarantee Corporation Limited or the Industrial Reconstruction Corporation of India Limited, or the Banking Service Commission established, under Section 3 of the Banking Service Commission Act, 1975, or an air transport service, or a banking or an insurance company, a mine, an oilfield, a Cantonment Board, or a major port, any company in which not less than fifty-one per cent of the paid-up share capital is held by the Central Government, or any corporation, not being a corporation referred to in this clause, established by or under any law made by Parliament, or the Central public sector undertaking, subsidiary companies set up by the principal undertaking and autonomous bodies owned or controlled by the Central Government, the Central Government, and (ii) in relation to any other industrial dispute, including the State public sector undertaking, subsidiary companies set up by the principal undertaking and autonomous bodies owned or controlled by the State Government, the State Government: Provided that in case of a dispute between a contractor and the contract labour employed through the contractor in any industrial establishment where such dispute first arose, the appropriate Government shall be the Central Government or the State Government, as the case may be, which has control over such industrial establishment.’ 3 ‘10. Reference of disputes to Boards, Courts or Tribunals.—(1) Where the appropriate Government is of opinion that any industrial dispute exists or is apprehended, it may at any time, by in writing,— (a) xxx; or (b) xxx; or (c) refer the dispute or any matter appearing to be connected with, or relevant to, the dispute, if it relates to any matter specified in the Second Schedule, to a Labour Court for adjudication; or (d) xxx: Provided that where the dispute relates to any matter specified in the Third Schedule and is not likely to affect more than one hundred workmen, the appropriate Government may, if it so thinks fit, make the reference to a Labour Court under clause (c) :’ 106 [2024] 4 S.C.R.