19. On 19 April 2023, the High Court passed the Second Impugned . The High Court noted that the Additional Chief Secretary (Finance) was not present, while the Secretary (Finance) and the Special Secretary (Finance), who also appeared on the previous date, were present. The High Court noted that on the date of the First Impugned , the officials of the Finance Department categorically stated that they have “no objection” if the Government issued in 2018 is modified or amended. The recall application, according to the High Court, constituted “ex-facie criminal contempt”, as it did not indicate any valid reasons for non-compliance with the First Impugned . The High Court held: “30. [..] From perusal of the entire affidavit, it is not clear as to which part of the the officers intend to recall, rather, the prayer made therein is to recall the entire , but no reason has been assigned as to how the is obnoxious on the whole. In other words, the affidavit that has been filed today is false, misleading and averments, therein, constitute ex-facie criminal contempt. 31. On specific query, it is informed by the· officers present in the Court, on perusal of the record, that pursuant to the dated 4 April 2023, the Chief Secretary had [2024] 1 S.C.R. 225 THE STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. v. ASSOCIATION OF RETIRED SUPREME COURT AND HIGH COURT JUDGES AT ALLAHABAD & ORS convened a meeting of the officers on 13 April 2023. The Advocate General had opined to comply the . Further, the office of the Law Department on 6 April 2023, had forwarded the proposed Government /amendment to confer benefits upon the retired Judges for approval of the Finance Department. The proposal is not to frame Rules under Article 229 of the Constitution. These facts have been suppressed. As per the stand of the officers, it is only after approval by the Finance Department, submitted by the Law Department, the matter would be placed before the Cabinet. In this backdrop, affidavit is not only false but also misleading as the affidavit does not disclose as to why the proposal submitted by the Law Department was not approved or the reason for not approving it, rather, frivolous issues have been raised with regard to the procedure to be adopted while notifying the Government or the issue of Article 229 of the Constitution. Affidavit does not clarify as to why the Government as proposed by the Law Department was not approved by the Finance Department till date. The approach of the officers of the Finance Department is writ large, that the proposal submitted by the High Court, would not be complied and in their overzealous approach and adamant attitude are opposing compliance of the writ court without any valid basis. 32. In the circumstances, having regard to the averments made in the affidavit and the conduct of the officers suppressing material facts and misleading the Court, prima facie, have committed criminal contempt of the Court.” (emphasis supplied) 20.