Thereby, it was contended, that the impugned Guidelines do not have the sanction of law. Therefore, learned senior counsel and learned counsel for the petitioners contended that the Guidelines dated 08.08.2008 may be struck down as running foul of Articles 19(1)(g) and 14 of the Constitution of India. 4.12 Learned senior counsel for petitioner in Writ Petition(C) No.1360 of 2021, Sri P.S. Patwalia relied upon the of this Court in Institute of Chartered Financial Analysts of India vs. Council of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India, (2007) 12 SCC 210, (“Institute of Chartered Financial Analysts of India”) to contend that undertaking more tax audits could not possibly classify as professional misconduct. According to the learned senior counsel, the aforesaid case assists their submissions insofar as it was held that classification of an activity must be looked at pragmatically and within the structural context and realities. Therein, it was held that acquiring a qualification could not be construed as a professional misconduct and consequentially, such a restriction was held to be violative of Articles 14 and 19(1)(g). On a similar ground, emphasizing the sanctity of a right guaranteed under Article 19(1)(g), reliance was placed on paras 14 and 15 of the in B.P. Sharma vs. Union of India, (2003) 7 SCC 309, (“B.P. Sharma”), wherein this Court held as unconstitutional, a ban on carrying on a [2024] 6 S.C.R. 811 Shaji Poulose v. Institute of Chartered Accountants of India & Others private profession or self-employment on attaining a certain age specified by the State in the absence of any reasons therefor. 4.13 Learned senior counsel appearing for the petitioners in Writ Petition (C) No.267/2021 argued that by no stretch of imagination could the restriction as sought to be imposed herein could be achieved simply through a resolution – a delegated legislation not specifically provided for by the Parliament to impose a quantitative restriction. It was further contended that the Guidelines are ultra vires the provisions of the Act inasmuch as there is no power at all under the Act to lay down a maximum limit on the number of tax audits. Learned senior counsel focused on the language of the Preamble of the 1949 Act to argue that the Act was sought by the Parliament to ‘make provisions’ to regulate the profession. Thereby, any regulation made has to relate to a specific provision and no omnibus power to regulate has been granted to the Council. 4.14 Learned senior counsel Sri Patwalia further contended that the power to issue Guidelines has been conferred for the first time by the Amendment Act, 2022 by way of insertion of sub-clause (fa) and hence the impugned Guideline issued earlier in the year 2008 is without authority of law. Furthermore, it was contended that where Section 30B of the 1949 Act provides for power to make Regulations “for the purpose of carrying out the objects of the Act”, subject to the following conditions: (i) prior approval of the Central Government under Sub-section (3) of Section 30 and (ii) the requirement under Section 30-B of laying the same before Parliament.