PW-9 Niranjan Singh has deposed as under: “2. …After some time the non-applicant Patwari came by his motorcycle and he contacted with the applicant in front of his residence. The applicant gave the amount of bribe to the accused Patwari. He took it in his hand and placed it in the pocket of his shirt. 3. During this time constable Shivshanker and Rajkumar suddenly tried to catch and the accused patwari tried to run away and constable Shivshanker and Rajkumar caught him. At the same time taking advantage of the darkness, the accused threw away the bribe money on the ground and the accused began to swing and jerk (‘jhooma-jhatki’ as available from the Hindi version). At the same time wife of the accused came out of the residence and began to cry. Enough crowds assembled at the spot of incident and patwari was doing too much swing and jerk…. During the incident I had suffered injuries near my right eye and at the ankle of the right leg. In this regard my medical examination was also done at District hospital Tili Sagar” (Emphasis supplied) [2024] 8 S.C.R. 947 Mahendra Kumar Sonker v. The State of Madhya Pradesh 26. We have also examined the evidence of Dr. H.L. Bhuria PW-13, who recorded the injuries as mentioned hereinabove and stated that the injuries might have been caused with hard and blunt object. (Emphasis supplied) 27. We have also carefully perused the defence witnesses including the evidence of DW-2 Sitaram Chourasia who generally states that three to four persons came and there was pushing and shoving (‘dhakka mukki’ as is evident from the Hindi deposition) between the accused and those persons. 28. Having considered the oral evidence and the medical evidence, we are constrained to conclude that the prosecution has not established that the appellant has assaulted or used criminal force against the trap party. In fact, what transpires is that when the appellant was apprehended there appears to have been an attempt by the appellant to wriggle out and jostling and pushing appears to have happened, in the process of the appellant trying to extricate himself from the arrest. None of the ingredients of assault or criminal force have been attracted. 29. Further, there is absolutely no evidence to show that the accused used any hard and blunt object. PW-13 Dr. H.L. Bhuria had deposed that the injuries on PW-9 Niranjan Singh, PW-8 N.K. Parihar, Constable Raj Kumar and Constable Shivshankar might have been caused by hard and blunt object. In view of the above, there is no evidence to indicate that the accused assaulted or used criminal force on the trap party in execution of their duties or for the purpose of preventing or deterring them in discharging their duties. In short, none of the ingredients of Section 353 are attracted. The jostling and pushing by the accused with an attempt to wriggle out, as is clear from the evidence, was not with any intention to assault or use criminal force.