Two kinds of institutions were incorporated as teaching universities. They consisted of institutions which were established and incorporated at the same time, and institutions in which the establishment of the institution predated its incorporation. Universities in the latter category, however, were teaching colleges converted into teaching universities. The University at Punjab is one such example. The Annamalai University would also fall in this category. In the case of Annamalai University, the Hon’ble Diwan Bahadur Sir S.R.M Annamalai Chettiyar had established and was maintaining colleges around Chidambaram in Tamil Nadu. The college was converted to a University through the enactment of Annamalai 91 See Entry 11 of List II to the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution prior to Constitution(Forty-second Amendment) Act 1976 92 Oxford Dictionary defines the word ‘incorporated’ as formed into business company with legal status 93 Oxford Dictionary defines establish as ‘to start or create an organization, a system.’ [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1731 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. University Act 1928.94 The ‘establishment’ and ‘incorporation’ of these universities was distinct. The incorporation of the University was necessary to confer degrees recognised by the Government. However, there was an institution that pre-dated the incorporation of the University that continued to exist even after the incorporation. Thus, the instance of conversion of teaching collages to teaching universities elucidates the distinction between the “establishment” and “incorporation” of educational institutions. 95. The word ‘establish’ as used in Article 30(1) cannot and should not be understood in a narrow and legalistic sense. The words used in clause (1) of Article 30 have to be interpreted in view of the object and purpose of the article, and the guarantee and protection it confers. The guarantee and protection are not dependent on the basis or the manner in which the legal requirements were/are complied with, rather it concerns the persons who have founded and created the establishment. The incorporation by a statute or the procedure and requirements in law are not determinative factors. The persons behind it, that is, the promoters and founder(s) are important. They should belong to a linguistic or a religious minority. There will always be individuals and groups instrumental in catalysing and setting up the institution. Thus, giving a legal character to an educational institution through state or sovereign action, it does not ipso facto follow that the university so established deprives the group of persons/individuals the guarantee under clause (1) of Article 30 of the Constitution. Universities are as much educational institutions as schools and colleges. The interpretation in Azeez Basha (supra) confers a legalistic meaning to the word ‘established’, sans the context of clause (1) of Article 30. No distinction exists between universities and other educational institutions such as schools and colleges for the purpose of Article 30(1). 96. The following conclusions emerge from the discussion above: a. The teaching universities and colleges serve the common function of educating students. No distinction between the two can be drawn for the purposes of Article 30(1) which guarantees minorities the right of greater autonomy in the administration of educational institutions to curate a model of education which best serves the interests of the community; and 94 See the preamble of the Annamalai University Act 1928 1732 [2024] 11 S.C.R.