For the price of goods Three years When the period of sold and delivered to be credit expires. paid for after the expiry of a fixed period of credit. 17. The position in law would have been otherwise, if section 24(1) itself had prescribed a period of limitation different from the one in Article 15 (supra). Since section 24 does not prescribe any period of limitation than that prescribed by the 1963 Act, as is done by the new avatar thereof in the 2003 Act, limitation would set in immediately upon the consumer’s neglect to pay the amount mentioned in the bill raised by the licensee. This Court, in Ajmer Vidyut Vitran Nigam Ltd. v. Rahamatullah Khan,24 followed by Prem Cottex v. Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam Ltd.,25 has held that a consumer can be said to have neglected to pay any sum due to the licensee only after a demand is raised by the licensee and if no demand is raised by the licensee, the question of a consumer neglecting to pay any sum due to the licensee does not and cannot arise. Thus, a licensee acquires the right of action to institute a suit immediately after the consumer neglects to pay the amount mentioned in the bill raised by it. 18. There could be situations like the one in Rahamatullah Khan (supra) where the licensee might have committed a mistake. In such a case, the period of limitation would begin only from the point of discovery of the mistake and not earlier; and, such a case could be covered by section 17 of 1963 Act. 19. It cannot be overemphasized that section 17 of the 1963 Act is meant to save suits from being dismissed as time-barred, which could not 24 [2020] 2 SCR 929 : (2020) 4 SCC 650 25 [2021] 8 SCR 645 : (2021) 20 SCC 200 356 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports be filed due to bona fide mistakes or errors. If a suitor alleges that the suit could not be instituted by him within the prescribed period of limitation because of some mistake, which came to be discovered beyond the period prescribed for institution of a suit, it is open to such suitor to claim exemption from limitation in terms of VII Rule 6 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 and such exemption can be granted in an appropriate case. However, if a suitor alleges to have discovered a mistake later but it is proved on evidence being led that exercise of reasonable diligence could have resulted in the mistake being discovered on an earlier date, limitation would begin to count from that earlier date; and, in case, the count from the said earlier date takes the date of institution of the suit beyond the prescribed period of limitation, the bar of limitation would get attracted. Mistake is, thus, not a circumstance which can be used as a shield to save negligence in all cases. Absence of due diligence or lack of bona fides would not clothe a suitor to take undue advantage of a beneficent provision like section 17; it is for the relevant court to separate the grain from the chaff.