Explanation (b) thereto defines a wife to include a woman who has been divorced by, or has obtained a divorce from, her husband and has not remarried. The definition being inclusive is therefore expansive in nature. A divorced woman who has not remarried as well as a wife are placed on par for the purpose of seeking maintenance. 4. The States of Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Tripura, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal have made State Amendments to Section 125 of the CrPC. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1277 Mohd. Abdul Samad v. The State of Telangana & Anr. Right to maintenance in a constitutional context: 5. Section 125 of the CrPC is a measure of social justice with a view to protect women and children and is aligned to the salutary object enshrined in Article 15(1) and (3) of the Constitution read with Article 39(e) of the Constitution. For immediate reference, Article 15(1) and (3) and Article 39(e) are reproduced as under: “15. Prohibition of discrimination on grounds of religion, race, caste, sex or place of birth.—(1) The State shall not discriminate against any citizen on grounds only of religion, race, caste, sex, place of birth or any of them. xxx xxx xxx (3) Nothing in this article shall prevent the State from making any special provision for women and children. xxx xxx xxx 39. Certain principles of policy to be followed by the State.—The State shall, in particular, direct its policy towards securing— xxx xxx xxx (e) that the health and strength of workers, men and women, and the tender age of children are not abused and that citizens are not forced by economic necessity to enter avocations unsuited to their age or strength;” 6. Article 15(3) is a fundamental right while Article 39 is a Directive Principle of State Policy that is fundamental in the governance of the country and it is the duty of the State to apply these principles while making the law. Thus, the statutory right to seek maintenance under Section 125 of the CrPC is also embedded in the text, structure and philosophy of the Constitution. Article 15(3), read with Article 39(e) manifests a constitutional commitment towards special measures to ensure a life of dignity for women at all stages of their lives. This ought to be irrespective of the faith a woman belongs to. The remedy of maintenance is a critical source of succour for the destitute, the deserted and the deprived sections of women. There can be no manner of doubt that it is an instantiation of the 1278 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports constitutional philosophy of social justice that seeks to liberate the Indian wife including a divorced woman from the shackles of gender- based discrimination, disadvantage and deprivation. 7. Further, Section 125 of the CrPC is independent of and in addition to maintenance that could be awarded under the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act, 2005 (for short, “2005 Act”) which is applicable to an ‘aggrieved woman’ in a ‘shared household’ as defined under the provisions of the aforesaid Act.