13. It is stated by the Respondents that the right of redemption is nowhere mentioned in the SARFAESI Act, and one has to refer to Section 60 of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882, which has been interpreted to reserve the right of Mortgagor to redeem the property fill the stage of the same being conveyed/transferred to a third party. 14. This interpretation has been upheld in the landmark case of Nardas Karsondas V/s S.A. Kamtam and Anr [Annexure R-2] (1977) 3 SCC 247 where it has been held that: “34. The right of redemption which is embodied in Section 60 of the Transfer of Property Act is available to the mortgagor unless it has been extinguished by of parties. The combined effect of Section 54 of the Transfer of Property Act and Section 17 of the Indian Registration Act is that a contract for sale in respect of immovable property of the value of more than one hundred rupees without registration cannot extinguish the equity of redemption. In India, it is only on execution of the conveyance and registration of transfer of the Mortgagor’s interest by registered instrument that the mortgagor’s right of redemption will be extinguished. The conferment of power to sell without intervention of the Court in a Mortgage [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1683 Celir LLP v. Mr. Sumati Prasad Bafna & Ors. Deed by itself will not deprive the mortgagor of his right t redemption. The extinction of the right of redemption is not extinguished at the expiry of the period. The equity of redemption is not extinguished by mere contract for sale. 35. The mortgagor’s right to redeem will survive until there has been completion of sale by the mortgagee by a registered Deed. In England a sale of property takes place by agreement but it is not so in our country. The power to sell shall not be exercised unless and until notice in writing requiring payment of the principal money has been served on the mortgagor. Further Section 69(3) of the Transfer of Property Act shows that when a sale has been made in professed exercise of such a power, the right of the purchaser shall not be impeachable on the ground that no case had arisen to authorize the sale. Therefore, until the sale is complete by registration the mortgagor does not lose right of redemption.” 15. This position has also been echoed in the case of Mathew Varghese V/s M. Amrithakumar, 2014 5 SCC 610 [Annexure R-3] where this Hon’ble Court has held that upon a combined reading of S. 60, 54 of the Transfer of Property Act and S. 17 of the Registration Act, it can be concluded that the extension of the right of redemption comes much later than the sale notice. 16. Though the decision in Mathew Varghese (supra) was prior to the 2016 Amendment to SARFAESI Act, its applicability has been continued to be held valid even after the amendment to the said Act. A Division Bench of the Hon’ble High Court of Telangana in the case of Concern Readymix V/s Authorized Officer, Corporation Bank and Anr, 2018 SCC OnLine Hyd 783 [Annexure R-4], whereby the Hon’ble Court, after juxtaposing the Amended and Unamended provisions of Section 13(8) of the SARFAESI Act, 1684 [2024] 12 S.C.R.