However, all the said objections were rejected by the CAG that maintained its stand in the final Report. 9.2 The High Court observed that at that stage, KPCL did a sudden summersault. Faced with the Audit Report of the CAG, 1216 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports KPCL proceeded to raise a demand on the appellants seeking reimbursement to the tune of ₹52,37,00,000/- (Rupees Fifty two crores thirty seven lacs only) as cost of the rejects and threatened KECML that in case of default of payment, recovery would commence from their running bills. This made KECML file two writ petitions, which were allowed by the High Court with the following observations: xxxxxxx “36. We find that the report of CAG cannot be the sole basis for any liability being caused or for that matter the sole basis for the prosecution to be launched. However, mere drawing up of FIR by the CBI against unknown officials of KPCL, EMTA and KEMTA cannot provide legal basis or impetus for unilateral demand by KPCL for recovery of ₹52,37,00,000/- (Rupees Fifty Two Crores Thirty Seven Lakh) only. We hold that such action is arbitrary and unsustainable in law.” 9.3. The aforesaid judgement was assailed by KPCL by approaching this Court. The said appeals were dismissed by a three Judges Bench of this Court of which one of us (Hon’ble Ms. Hima Kohli, J) was a member with the observations that the Audit Report of the CAG appeared to have been the starting point for the entire dispute between the parties. When the CAG Report was first submitted, KPCL had itself raised objections to the quantification of the coal rejects by the CAG but on its objections being turned down, KPCL raised a demand on KECML seeking reimbursement on the basis of very same CAG Report to which it had not so long ago, filed objections. 9.4. The observations made by this Court in the captioned decision are germane and are extracted below: “13. The present matter pertains to a tender that was awarded by the appellant to EMTA nearly twenty years ago, in the year 2002. The CAG report that appears to have been the starting point for the entire dispute between the parties is dated March, 2013, close to a decade back. In such circumstances, to even advert to arguments on the maintainability of the writ petitions would be unjust to the parties involved. [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1217 M/s Karnataka Emta Coal Mines Limited and Another v. Central Bureau of Investigation 14. Coming to the merits of the appeal, from the facts, it appears that in the first instance, when the CAG report was first submitted, the appellant itself had raised objections to the quantification of coal rejects arrived at by the CAG. However, when the audit objections were rejected by the CAG, and the final report was made available, the appellant demanded reimbursement from KEMTA based on the same CAG report to which it had filed objections. Such a change of stand by the appellant has not been sufficiently explained.