31 RADHEY SHYAM YADAV & ANR. ETC. v. STATE OF U.P. & ORS. “5. The entire basis of the dismissal of the appellant depends upon the factum of the alleged misrepresentation attributed to the respondent. The Industrial Court in its impugned has noticed the fact that the respondent was appointed in April 1994 pursuant to the selection procedure followed by the competent authority and that he was selected by the panel of Selection Committee consisting of 6 members which included the very same Social Welfare Officer who had sent the proposal including the name of the respondent for appointment. It also noticed the fact that the selection in question was made after an oral interview and the required test as also the medical examination. The Industrial Court also noticed the fact that the appointment of the respondent was confirmed after one-year period and thereafter the respondent has been working without any complaint. The said Industrial Court also noticed the fact that the termination of the respondent was based on a show-cause notice issued on 5-7-1999 which was replied to by the respondent on 17-7-1999 and the termination was made in a summary procedure permissible under Rule 90(b) of the Service Regulations. The Industrial Court after perusing the pleadings and the notice issued to the respondent came to the conclusion that the alleged misrepresentation which is now said to be a fraud was not specifically pleaded or proved. In the show-cause notice, no basis was laid to show what is the nature of fraud that was being attributed to the appellant. No particulars of the alleged fraud were given and the said pleadings did not even contain any allegation as to how the appellant was responsible for sending the so-called fraudulent proposal or what role he had to play in such proposal being sent. It also noticed from the evidence of Mr Waghmare, Social Welfare Officer who sent the proposal before the Labour Court that he did not utter a single word as to whether the said supplementary list was ever called for by the department concerned or not. Thus applying the basic principle of rule of evidence which requires a party alleging fraud to give particulars of the fraud and having found no such particulars, the Industrial Court came to the conclusion that the respondent could not be held guilty of 32 [2024] 1 S.C.R. DIGITAL SUPREME COURT REPORTS fraud. The said finding of the Industrial Court has been accepted by the High Court. Mr. Bhasme though contended that the fraud in question was played in collusion with the Social Welfare Officer and 2 other employees of the Board and action against the said 2 employees of the Board has been taken, but by that itself we are unable to accept the argument of Mr. Bhasme that there is material to support the contention of the Board that the appellant had also contributed to making the misrepresentation at the time of applying for the job with the Board. In the absence of any such particulars being mentioned in the show-cause notice or at the trial, attributing some overt act to the respondent, we do not think the Board can infer that the respondent had a role to play in sending a fraudulent list solely on the basis of the presumption that since the respondent got a job by the said proposal, the said list is a fraudulent one.