On 2.10.2002, at 10 O’Clock, I went to District Social Welfare Officer for obtaining permission to go to Kannauj, then he directed me to not go to Kannauj. When, it has already been written to the District Savings Officer that you call your record, then, you do not need to go there. Thereafter, I returning back to the Office, started performing official work. In noon time at 12.30 O’ Clock, the Chief Development Officer, gave me information on telephone that you leave all your work and go to Kannauj and meet the learned District Magistrate. I immediately reached Kannauj by Scooter, where, at 2:15 O’ Clock, I went the bungalow of District Magistrate, where, it was told that the learned District Magistrate has departed and you please meet the District Savings Officer Prabhat Mishra, then, I went to Shri Mishra at 2:45 O’ Clock, then, he continued sitting me in his Office till 5:30 O’ Clock and told me that the learned District Magistrate has not sit till now and we will go from here at 5 O’clock. At 5:30 O’ Clock, Shri Mishra had taken me to the Chief Development Officer Shri Shashidhar Dwivedi. Conversation of Shri Mishra had already taken place previously with CDO Sahab. The CDO Sahab asked that why the pension of 327 widows has not been distributed yet, then I replied that due to non-availability of their bank accounts, it could not have been distributed. On this, he, while using very indecent words, used odd words against me very much and that I am unable to give full particulars of above. He told me that even after my call, you did not come to me, have you become a very big governor. Further says that DM Sahab has refused to go there and thereat, he keeps filling the Officers a lot and does not want to perform work and even everything was told about Suspension and other things. Thereafter, Shri Mishra had taken me at the residence of learned District Magistrate from where, I was called at 7:30 O’clock. After making me aware about the information, the respected [2024] 3 S.C.R. 161 Prabhat Kumar Mishra @ Prabhat Mishra v. The State of U.P. & Anr. sir asked me reason for not coming to Kannauj, then, I made him aware about the situation. Sir, it is requested that I, even after the fact that the post of District Probation Officer is lying vacant, am executing, and discharging my duties diligently with honesty and full devotion. Due to non-availability of my Officers in two districts, now, it is beyond my control to perform work with two different Officers. Sir, it was told by you that to not go to Kannauj and discharge your duty of Farrukhabad smoothly, but, I was suddenly given to go to Kannauj that you leave all the work and come to Kannauj and then, I have already sent the information on 1.10.2002, to the District Economics and Statistics Officer, Kannauj, where it was available, but, I was called only for insulting me.