Presently, the High Court itself concluded that the three vehicles in question were transferred, be it by way of sale or gift. The vehicles were, therefore, not owned and possessed in praesenti by the dependent family members of Karikho Kri at the time of the filing of his nomination. This point of distinction was completely lost sight of by the High Court but, in our considered opinion, it made all the difference. 28. Therefore, non-disclosure of the three vehicles in question could not be held against Karikho Kri in the light of the aforestated analysis. 6 [2014] 7 SCR 258 : (2014) 14 SCC 162 [2024] 4 S.C.R. 415 Karikho Kri v. Nuney Tayang and Another Such non-disclosure cannot, by any stretch of imagination, be treated as an attempt on his part to unduly influence the voters, thereby inviting the wrath of Section 123(2) of the Act of 1951. We may note that Karikho Kri had declared the value of the movable assets of his dependent family members and himself as ₹8,41,87,815/-. The value of the three vehicles in question, by comparison, would be a mere miniscule of this figure. In any event, suppression of the value of these three vehicles would have no impact on the declaration of wealth by Karikho Kri and such non-disclosure could not be said to amount to ‘undue influence’. 29. Coming to the next ground, if the acceptance of a nomination is found to be improper and it materially affects the result of the election in so far as the returned candidate is concerned, Section 100(1)(d)(i) of the Act of 1951 would come into play. It would be appropriate and apposite at this stage for us to take note of precedential law on this point. In Vashist Narain Sharma vs. Dev Chandra and others7, a 3-Judge Bench of this Court noted that the burden of proving that the improper acceptance of a nomination has materially affected the result of an election would arise in one of three ways: (i) where the candidate whose nomination was improperly accepted had secured less votes than the difference between the returned candidate and the candidate securing the next highest number of votes, (ii) where the person referred to above secured more votes, or (iii) where the person whose nomination has been improperly accepted is the returned candidate himself. It was held that in the first case the result of the election would not be materially affected because if all the wasted votes were added to the votes of the candidate securing the next highest votes, it would make no difference to the result and the returned candidate would retain the seat. However, in the other two cases, the result may be materially affected and insofar as the third case is concerned, it may be readily conceded that such would be the conclusion. 30. In Hari Vishnu Kamath vs. Syed Ahmad Ishaque and others8, a Constitution Bench of 7 Judges considered the scope of enquiry under Section 100(1)(d) of the Act of 1951.