appellants’ execution application. c. It is a cardinal principle that to succeed in a suit for permanent prohibitory injunction, the plaintiff must either establish title, proprietary rights over the suit property or prove possession over the same; however, the Trial Court had not found either the title of the plaintiffs or proved their possession in respect of the suit property. d. A court need not always pronounce on the facts of a plaint or on those admitted due to non-filing of a written statement or want of specific denial. A court has the option of pronouncing only in cases where it deems it prudent; it also has the option to pass such an appropriate as it seems fit. e. A reading of Rules 1, 5 and 10 of VIII, CPC show that they concern themselves with only a single defendant to a suit and not several defendants. The Trial Court, instead, could have proceeded to hear the Suit ex parte under Rule 11 of IX, CPC since Kazmi’s written statement was on the record. Hence, the Trial Court had no authority in law to decree the Suit against one defendant without adjudicating upon the controversy involved. f. The dated 5th August, 1991 was not a within the scope of section 2(9) read with Rule 4(2) of XX, CPC and did not meet the basic requirements of a “” and a decree as per section 2(9) and 2(2), CPC, respectively. Rival Contentions 9. Ms. Meenakshi Arora, learned senior counsel for the appellants while seeking our interference with the impugned submitted as under: a. The High Court fell into error by not appreciating the fact that the Executing Court exceeded its jurisdiction by going behind the dated 5th August, 1991 and the decree that was drawn up in terms thereof, returning a finding that the same was not executable. 528 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports b. Samiullah had been provided ample opportunity to file his written statement but had failed to do so. In any event, the dated 5th August, 1991 had not been challenged, and had attained finality. c. The Trial Court, vide an interim dated 31st May, 1990, had directed Kazmi and Samiullah to maintain status quo and not interfere with the peaceful possession of the suit property, by the appellants. The High Court had erroneously held that a perusal of the aforementioned did not indicate any rider placed upon the parties from alienating the suit property, and that the sale deed dated 3rd November, 1997 was validly entered into. d. The Purchasers were purchasers pendente lite and could not have purchased the suit property without leave of the Trial Court. The decisions in Surjit Singh and Others v. Harbans Singh and Others6 and Manohar Lal v. Ugrasen7 were referred to in support of the contentions that the transfer of property during pendency of proceedings and also in contravention of the interim of injunction was impermissible. e. Further, the Purchasers forcibly dispossessed the appellants of their peaceful possession of the suit property on 10th October, 2004 in gross violation of the injunction dated 16th January, 1998 passed by the Executing Court.