36. Besides that, two incised wounds with clear cut margins were found on the head of the deceased. Though doctor (PW-1) said that they could be caused by a sharp-edged stone but whether the seized stone could have caused it is not proved. Importantly, the stone was not shown to the doctor to have his opinion as to whether those head injuries could be caused by use of it. For all the reasons above, we are of the considered view that the recovery allegedly made from the place discovered consequent to the disclosure statement/pointing out by the accused is inconsequential as it could not be connected to the crime. The High Court erred by placing reliance on the same. 37. Otherwise also, the disclosure statement (Exb. Ka-18) was not admissible in evidence because the alleged discovery was not made pursuant to that statement. Disclosure statement was recorded at the police station whereas recovery was made from the place pointed out by the accused enroute to the police station. It was, therefore, a case of recovery from the place allegedly pointed out by the accused and not based on a disclosure statement. In Geejaganda Somaiah vs. State of Karnataka,11 this Court has cautioned the courts about misuse of provision of Section 27 of the Evidence Act, 1872 while observing as under: “22. As the section is alleged to be frequently misused by the police, the courts are required to be vigilant about its application. The court must ensure the credibility of evidence by police because this provision is vulnerable to abuse. It does not, however, mean that any statement made in terms of the aforesaid section should be seen with suspicion and 11 [2007] 3 SCR 899 : (2007) 9 SCC 315 1254 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports it cannot be discarded only on the ground that it was made to a police officer during investigation. The court has to be cautious that no effort is made by the prosecution to make out a statement of the accused with a simple case of recovery as a case of discovery of fact in to attract the provisions of section 27 of the Evidence Act.” (Emphasis supplied) 38. Above apart, there is another reason to doubt the alleged discovery (i.e., based on disclosure made by the accused-appellants) or recovery (i.e., at their pointing out), as the case may be. This we say so, because in all seizure memorandums including that of torch, prepared on three dates i.e., 3.2.1997, 6.2.1997 and 9.2.1997, there is one common witness, namely, PW-8. Recovery made on 6.2.1997 is a chance recovery because by then there was no disclosure statement on record. Notably, as per evidence on record, accused appellants were on their way to the police station when they allegedly pointed out the place where they had assaulted the deceased before dragging him to the field. In such circumstances, it is quite unlikely that PW-8 would be present at the spot to be available as a witness of the recovery.