That the expenses towards execution of this document will be borne by the mortgagor and after completion of the said period if the mortgagor with condition seller fails to repay the principal amount along with interest then this document will be treated as Sale Deed and the mortgagor with condition seller will have the right to demand the money towards expenses of this document from the mortgagee but the mortgagor will have no right to: claim interest on this amount.” The inclusion of the condition within the same document satisfies the third essential ingredient as mandated by the proviso to Section 58(c) of the Act. 18. Therefore, it can be concluded that all the essential ingredients of a mortgage by conditional sale under Section 58(c) of the Act are satisfied in the present case as there was an ostensible sale of the property by the mortgagor to the mortgagee and the sale was conditional, stipulating that upon default of payment within three years, the sale would become absolute as well as that the condition was embodied in the same document, i.e. the mortgage deed, that effected the transaction. 19. At this juncture, we must address that the Trial Court and the High Court placed significant emphasis on the fact that the plaintiff remained in possession of the suit land after the execution of the mortgage deed. They inferred that since possession was not delivered to the defendant, the transaction could not be a mortgage by conditional sale but was instead a simple mortgage. However, this conclusion overlooks critical aspects of the evidence and the nature of the possession in the present case. It is an admitted position by both parties that the plaintiff (mortgagor) remained in possession of the suit land after the execution of the mortgage deed. Importantly however, the nature of this possession was permissive and for the purpose of safeguarding the property. This is also evident from the testimony of the defendant-DW1, Vijay Kumar Khedia, who stated in his deposition: “After the documentation, Sarkar gave the possession of the land to my sister. Later on, Sarkar said that they will [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1139 Leela Agrawal v. Sarkar & Anr. guard the land, so they will be allowed to live there.” Here, “Sarkar” refers to the plaintiff and her husband, and “my sister” refers to the defendant. 20. The permissive possession granted by the defendant to the plaintiff was a practical arrangement, given that the plaintiff was already residing on the land. This arrangement does not confer any additional rights upon the plaintiff beyond those specified in the mortgage deed. The Trial Court and the High Court erred in concluding that the continuous possession of the plaintiff negated the possibility of the transaction being a mortgage by conditional sale. The key factors that need to be considered are: • Nature of Possession: The possession was permissive and at the discretion of the defendant. It was not an indication of ownership or an absolute right but was granted to safeguard the property.