131. No doubt that the report refers to the objection of the Uttarakhand Forest Department to the estimation of the FSI, which is also reiterated before us by Mr. Nadkarni, learned Senior Counsel during his arguments. 132. The report of the CEC further highlights that taking into consideration the sequence of events that happened, it was of the opinion that it was the then Hon’ble Forest Minister who was the main architect of the entire matter. In a nutshell, the reasons thereof are as under : (i) That, the State Vigilance Department vide letter dated 19th September 2019 and the PCCF and HoFF vide letters dated 18th September 2019 and 21st September 2019 had requested the State Government not to post Mr. Kishan Chand at any sensitive post, he was still given a posting in a sensitive post. (ii) That, though there was no proposal from the Forest Department and no recommendation from the Civil Service Board (CSB) to post Mr. Kishan Chand at the Kalagarh Forest Division, ignoring the recommendation of the PCCF & HoFF and the State Vigilance Department, the then Hon’ble Forest Minister inserted the name of Mr. Kishan Chand, DFO at serial No. 11 in the proposal relating to transfer and postings. This insertion was made on 26th April 2021 before the concerned file was submitted to the Hon’ble Chief Minister for approval of the posting proposal. (iii) Though the Secretary (Forests) vide notings dated 27th October 2021, after considering the seriousness of the irregularities reported by the NTCA, recommended placing Mr. Kishan Chand under suspension, the then Hon’ble Forest Minister has not only overruled the recommendation of the Secretary (Forests) for suspension but also justified the proposed posting to Lansdowne Division stating that Mr. Kishan Chand only executed works which had been started by his predecessors. [2024] 3 S.C.R. 263 In Re: T.N. Godavarman Thirumulpad v. Union of India & Ors. In Re: Gaurav Kumar Bansal (iv) The then Hon’ble Forest Minister justified the construction of new buildings on the ground that they were being constructed as per the approvals granted by the Corbett Tiger Reserve Foundation. Overruling the proposal of the Secretary (Forest) for suspension, the then Hon’ble Forest Minister justified the actions of the DFO Mr. Kishan Chand, and recommended that the officer be transferred from the post of DFO Kalagarh Forest Division to the post of DFO Lansdowne Forest Division, Lansdowne. (v) Subsequently, the posting of Mr. Kishan Chand was reviewed and revised on 24th November 2021 by the Hon’ble Chief Minister and the officer was posted to the Office of the HoFF on administrative grounds. This change in proposal relating to the posting of Mr. Kishan Chand was put up to the Chief Minister directly as was noticed by the CEC from the copies of the notings on the file. (vi) Ignoring the recommendation of the authorities to place Mr. Kishan Chand under suspension, the then Hon’ble Forest Minister once again attempted to post the officer to Lansdowne Territorial Forest Division by inserting his name at serial no.