The Act was enacted following the recommendations of the Ramachandran Raju Commission constituted by the State Government. The Commission was tasked with ascertaining the groups among the Scheduled Castes in the State who had failed to avail of the benefits of reservations in college admissions and state public services. The Commission found inter-se backwardness among the Scheduled Castes in the state in matters of reservation in education and appointment. Accepting its findings- that there were inequalities among the Scheduled Castes as far as the distribution of the benefits of reservation was concerned - the State Government promulgated the Andhra Pradesh Scheduled Castes (Rationalisation of Reservations) Ordinance 1999. While proceedings challenging the Ordinance were pending, the State enacted a law to replace Ordinance. Section 3, which provided for ‘Rationalisation of Reservations,’ apportioned the benefits of reservation among Scheduled Castes into four groups – Groups A, B, C and D - in varying percentages : 1% for Group A, 7% for Group B, 6% for Group C and 1% for Group D respectively, subject to the availability of eligible candidates. The Andhra Pradesh High Court rejected challenges to the Act, leading to appeals which came to be decided by this Court in Chinnaiah (supra). 11 4. Notwithstanding anything contained in the 1994 Act or the 2006 Act or in any other law for the time being in force or in any , decree or of any Court or other authority, having regard to the social and educational backwardness of Arunthathiyars included in the Scheduled Castes, sixteen per cent of the appointments or posts reserved for the Scheduled Castes shall be offered to Arunthathiyars, if available, in appointments or posts in the services under the State, on preferential basis amongst the Scheduled Castes, in such manner as may be prescribed. Explanation.- For the purposes of this Act, “services under the State” includes the services under- (i) The Government (ii) He legislature of the State (iii) Any local authority (iv) Any Corporation or Company owned or controlled by the Government; or (v) Any other authority in respect of which the State Legislature has power to make laws [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1349 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. 12. The appellants argued that the State legislature lacked legislative competence to enact the law. They argued that once enumerated in the Presidential List under Article 341 of the Constitution, the Scheduled Castes constitute a homogenous class, which is incapable of further subdivision/sub-classification. Such a classification, they argued, amounted to tinkering with the Presidential List, in violation of Article 341(2) and Article 14 of the Constitution. 13. The respondent-State on the other hand, argued that Article 341 allows the President to identify certain castes as Scheduled Castes and only Parliament can include or exclude entries from the List so created. The State argued that it could, in exercise of powers under Articles 15(4) and 16(4) decide the scope and extent of reservations. This power, they argued, was not limited by Article 341 which operates in an entirely different field.