Accordingly, the High Court’s view was affirmed and the appeal was dismissed. However, Indira Banerjee, J. disagreeing with the aforesaid view observed that the Family Court has the jurisdiction to convert the application for maintenance filed under Section 125 of the CrPC into an application under Section 3 of the 1986 Act and to decide the same. In view of the difference of opinion between the two learned Judges, the matter was placed before Hon’ble the Chief Justice of India for referring the matter to a larger Bench. However, the larger Bench of three-Judges by its dated 22.09.2022 disposed of the appeal without going into the questions referred to the said Bench. Be that as it may, what is of relevance from the aforesaid case, is Banumathi, J.’s reasoning that the 1986 Act is not contrary to the object of Chapter IX of the CrPC as it provides remedies to a divorced Muslim woman. Therefore, the non-obstante clause, occurring in Sections 3(1), 4(1) and 7 cannot be lightly assumed to bring in the effect of supersession of Section 125 of the CrPC and cannot be allowed ‘to demolish or extinguish the existing right unless the legislative intention is clear, manifest and unambiguous’. I also find force in Indira Banerjee J’s reasoning that the 1986 Act manifests the Parliament’s intent to protect and further the rights of Muslim women. 1304 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Placing reliance upon the right to be treated equally irrespective of religion, as it is enshrined in Article 2 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and Articles 14 and 26 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, the learned judge held that Muslim women cannot be afforded a lesser degree of protection than other classes of women. It was also held that: “57. The Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, 1979, commonly referred to as Cedaw, recognises amongst others, the right of women to equality irrespective of religion, as a basic human right. Article 2 of Cedaw exhorts State parties to ensure adoption of a woman-friendly legal system and woman-friendly policies and practices. 58. As a signatory to Cedaw, India is committed to adopt a woman-friendly legal system and woman-friendly policies and practices. The 1986 Act for Muslim Women, being a post Cedaw law, this Court is duty-bound to interpret the provisions of the said Act substantively, liberally, and purposefully, in such a manner as would benefit women of the Muslim community.” 40. Therefore, the position of law with regard to harmonious interpretation of Sections 125-128 of the CrPC and the 1986 Act can be summarised as under: i. There cannot be a disparity amongst divorced Muslim women on the basis of the law under which they were married or divorced in the matter of their maintenance post-divorce. The definition of “divorced woman” under the 1986 Act would include only a Muslim woman who has married according to Muslim law but also divorced under that law.