Paragraph 2 of the Notification dated 14 September 2006 is in the following terms: "2. Requirements of prior Environmental Clearance (EC): The following projects or activities shall require 2 NGT 80 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports prior environmental clearance from the concerned regulatory authority, which shall hereinafter referred to be as the Central Government in the Ministry of Environment and Forests for matters falling under Category ‘A’ in the Schedule and at State level the State Environment Impact Assessment Authority (SEIAA) for matters falling under Category ‘B’ in the said Schedule, before any construction work, or preparation of land by the project management except for securing the land, is started on the project or activity: (i) All new projects or activities listed in the Schedule to this notification; (ii) Expansion and modernization of existing projects or activities listed in the Schedule to this notification with addition of capacity beyond the limits specified for the concerned sector, that is, projects or activities which cross the threshold limits given in the Schedule, after expansion or modernization; (iii) Any change in product - mix in an existing manufacturing unit included in Schedule beyond the specified range.” The construction of airports in item 7(a) of the Schedule. 8. By the of this Court dated 22 April 2024, the Secretary of the District Legal Services Authority, Cachar was directed to visit the site and submit a report to this Court on: (i) Whether any felling of shade trees had taken place; (ii) Whether any eviction at the site had taken place; and (iii) The nature of the activities which have been carried out at the site. 9. At this stage, it would be material to note that contrary to the assertions of the appellants, on 22 April 2024, an affidavit was filed by the Joint Secretary to the Government of Assam in the General Administration Department stating that: [2024] 6 S.C.R. 81 Tapas Guha & Ors. v. Union of India & Ors. (i) there has been no felling of shade trees at the site in question; (ii) no eviction of individuals or households had taken place from the land under consideration since the tract was not inhabited; and (iii) removal of tea bushes “occurs routinely even as part of regular tea cultivation” for which no environmental clearance is required. Annexed to the affidavit is a letter dated 22 April 2024 (issued on the same date as the affidavit) by the Member Secretary of the State Environment Impact Assessment Authority, Assam to the Member Secretary, SEIAA, Assam in the following terms : “Inviting reference to the subject cited above, this is to inform you that the matter has been referred by the Special Chief Secretary (Environment & Forest), Govt. of Assam, inviting comments / opinion as to the requirement of prior Environmental Clearance (EC) for clearance of Tea bushes, uprooting /removal of shade / cover crops in respect of Doloo Tea Estate. On careful perusal of the averments made in the instant petition, it is to be stated herein that cultivation of Tea in Assam is falling within the category of Special Cultivation for which the Govt.