59). It also bore his endorsement to the effect that the patient was fit for giving statement at present which was signed by him. He stated that the contents of Ex. 59 were correct. He proved his endorsements and the signatures on Ex. 59. He also stated that he had put an endorsement before recording the statement and another endorsement after recording the statement; the endorsement date and time was in his handwriting. Regarding 752 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the second endorsement after recording of the statement, he stated that the endorsement was his but by mistake he had mentioned the time as 11:45 PM. He also stated that at the time of admission of the patient, he had recorded the history narrated by her. The patient had informed him that her husband had set her on fire. He asserted that he had correctly recorded the history as narrated by the patient. It was in his own handwriting, the contents of which were proved by him (Ex. 117). 17.1. Though PW-13 was extensively cross-examined, nothing inconsistent or contradictory to what he had stated in his evidence-in-chief could be extracted. 18. We will analyze the evidence of PW-12 and PW-13 at the time of examination of Ex. 59. Before proceeding to Ex. 59, let us briefly analyze the evidence of the prosecution witnesses discussed thus far. 19. In his evidence-in-chief, PW-2 stated that constable Rajgire was in the crowd in front of the residence of Rekha and that he had told him that the husband and brother-in-law of Rekha had set her on fire by pouring kerosene on her person. While Rekha was undergoing treatment in the hospital, constable Sayyed Chand asked her in the presence of PW-2 as to how she had sustained the burn injuries. In response, Rekha stated that her husband and brother-in-law had set her on fire by pouring kerosene. She had further stated that her in-laws used to instigate her husband whenever he used to come home on leave from the army, raising question marks over her character and citing that as the reason for not parting with her salary. This would be enough for the husband to abuse and assault her which ultimately led to the incident in question. However, in his cross-examination, PW-2 admitted that police had not included in his Section 161 statement that the in-laws of Rekha had told her husband that she was not handing over her salary to them for which Rekha was abused and assaulted. It was also not mentioned in the statement under Section 161 Cr.P.C. that the appellant had gagged the mouth of Rekha by one hand and poured kerosene on her person by the other hand. However, he stated that he was present in the hospital when PW-6 had recorded the statement of Rekha in detail (Ex. 59). 19.1. Likewise, in her cross-examination, PW-3 admitted that it was not mentioned in her statement recorded under Section 161 Cr.P.C. that her daughter Rekha was subjected to cruelty by [2024] 6 S.C.R.