1271 Mohd. Abdul Samad v. The State of Telangana & Anr. never sought to restrict the rights of a divorced Muslim woman to iddat period. Rather, by virtue of the introduction of Section 3 of the 1986 Act in this socio-beneficial legislation, the idea was to confer the benefit of maintenance as well as a reasonable and fair provision for the lifetime of a divorced Muslim woman, subject to her remarriage. Adding to this well-expounded interpretation of the provisions of the 1986 Act, it is hereby pertinent to highlight that a divorced Muslim woman is not restricted from exercising her independent right of maintenance under the secular provision of Section 125 of CrPC 1973, provided she is able to prove the requisites encompassed by the said statute. 33. Having said that, it is also not to be a case where a specious amount rendered in favour of a divorced woman by virtue of requirements laid down in either the personal law or the customary law of the parties is utilised to evade the liability under Section 125 of CrPC 1973 or to seek an equivalent reduction in the amount of maintenance to be provided therein. There ought to be a reasonable substitute for the maintenance under personal or customary law equating to a rational nexus between the actual sum of maintenance paid and the potential of maintenance under the equivalent provision of secular law. Having made the said observations, a reference should again be made to the decision in Fuzlunbi (supra) in paragraph numbers 19(1) to 19(4) which declared that: “19. We may sum up and declare the law foolproof fashion: (1) Section 127(3)(b) has a setting, scheme and a purpose and no talaq of the purpose different from the sense is permissible in statutory construction. (2) The payment of an amount, customary or other, contemplated by the measure must inset the intent of preventing destitution and providing a sum which is more or less the present worth of the monthly maintenance allowances the divorcee may need until death or remarriage overtake her. The policy of the law abhors neglected wives and destitute divorcees and Section 127(3)(b) takes care to avoid double payment one under custom at the time of divorce and another under Section 125. 1272 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (3) Whatever the facts of a particular case, the Code, by enacting Sections 125 to 127, charges the court with the humane obligation of enforcing maintenance or its just equivalent to ill-used wives and castaway ex-wives, only if the woman has received voluntarily a sum, at the time of divorce, sufficient to keep her going according to the circumstances of the parties. (4) Neither personal law nor other salvationary plea will hold against the policy of public law pervading Section 127(3)(b) as much as it does in Section 125. So a farthing is no substitute for a fortune nor naive consent equivalent to intelligent acceptance…” 34. It is observed that there shall arise a couple of peculiar circumstances while considering the right for seeking cancellation of an by the husband concerned, through an application under Section 127(3) (b) of CrPC 1973.