Although these are not justiciable provisions of the Constitution, they are indications that the Constitution recognises the importance of the natural world. The importance of the environment, as indicated by these provisions, becomes a right in other parts of the Constitution. Article 21 recognises the right to life and personal liberty while Article 14 indicates that all persons shall have equality before law and the equal protection of laws. These articles are important sources of the right to a clean environment and the right against the adverse effects of climate change. 21. In M.C. Mehta v. Kamal Nath,16 this Court held that Articles 48A and 51A(g) must be interpreted in light of Article 21: “8. …. These two articles have to be considered in the light of Article 21 of the Constitution which provides that no person shall be deprived of his life and liberty except in accordance with the procedure established by law. Any disturbance of the basic environment elements, namely air, water and soil, which are necessary for “life”, would be hazardous to “life” within the meaning of Article 21 of the Constitution.” 22. In Virender Gaur v. State of Haryana,17 this Court recognised the right to a clean environment in the following terms: “7. … The State, in particular has duty in that behalf and to shed its extravagant unbridled sovereign power and to forge in its policy to maintain ecological balance and hygienic environment. Article 21 protects right to life as a fundamental right. Enjoyment of life and its attainment including their right to life with human dignity encompasses within its ambit, the protection and preservation of environment, ecological balance free from pollution of air and water, sanitation without which life cannot be enjoyed. Any contra acts or actions would cause environmental pollution. Environmental, ecological, air, water, pollution, etc. should be regarded as amounting to violation of Article 16 [2000] Supp. 1 SCR 389 : (2000) 6 SCC 213 17 [1994] Supp. 6 SCR 78 : (1995) 2 SCC 577 1338 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 21. Therefore, hygienic environment is an integral facet of right to healthy life and it would be impossible to live with human dignity without a humane and healthy environment. Environmental protection, therefore, has now become a matter of grave concern for human existence. Promoting environmental protection implies maintenance of the environment as a whole comprising the man-made and the natural environment. Therefore, there is a constitutional imperative on the State Government and the municipalities, not only to ensure and safeguard proper environment but also an imperative duty to take adequate measures to promote, protect and improve both the man-made and the natural environment.” 23. In Karnataka Industrial Areas Development Board v. C. Kenchappa,18 this Court took note of the adverse effects of rising sea levels and rising global temperatures. In Bombay Dyeing & Mfg. Co. Ltd. (3) v. Bombay Environmental Action Group,19 this Court recognised that climate change posed a “major threat” to the environment. 24. Despite a plethora of decisions on the right to a clean environment, some decisions which recognise climate change as a serious threat, and national policies which seek to combat climate change, it is yet to be articulated that the people have a right against the adverse effects of climate change.