This national identity is manifested in institutions such as AMU, which has pioneered the idea that India and its institutions, belong, and are open to all Indians, irrespective of caste, creed, religion, or sex. To remove an institution like AMU from this national project would hurt India’s integrity and the idea of fraternity among its citizens. 147. The appellants have argued that the Constitution is a living document which needs to evolve with time and this Court has not only the power but also the duty to read and interpret the Constitution to reflect the aspirations of the people of this county. The doctrine of progressive realisation of rights has been this Court’s north star for over several decades. This Court has “found” rights which were not explicitly set forth in Part III of the Constitution. For better or for worse, the Constitution in the present form is substantially different than the Constitution which was adopted by the Constituent Assembly. Hence, there are no inherent or constitutional limitations before us to expand the scope of Part III of the Constitution in suitably appropriate cases. 1918 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 148. However, that is quite different than what the appellants are asking us to do in the present case. Acceptance of their arguments will result in this Court engaging in historical revisionism. Anyone claiming that historical facts can be changed by judicial fiat, is sorely mistaken. Courts are the custodian of the “truth” and cannot create an alternative version of the “truth”, which are not supported by historical facts. To do so would be thoroughly unjust, arbitrary, and unreasonable. Allowing Courts to create alternative facts in support of a pre-determined conclusion would obliterate the creditability of this Court among the citizenry. Facts cannot be created by the stroke of a pen, and to attempt to do that, 100 years later, would be a misguided endeavour. conclusIon 149. In the light of the above discussion, the claim of the appellants cannot stand. AMU was neither established by any religious community, nor is it administered by a religious community which is regarded as a minority community; hence, AMU does not qualify as a minority institution. Protection under Article 30(1) of the Constitution is, thus, not available. This submission of the appellants has no historic, legal, factual, or logical basis. 150. In terms of clause (5) of Article 145 of the Constitution, it is my firm opinion that not only do the references not require an answer, it is also declared that AMU is not a minority educational institution and that the appeals seeking minority status for it should fail. acknowledgement 151. Before parting, I express my sincere appreciation for the members of the bar who addressed this bench. Listening to their erudite arguments was indeed enriching. Further, I express gratefulness to my research assistants who worked tirelessly and burned the midnight oil, in tandem with me, to help me win the race against time. The scholarly contributions in books and treatises which were consulted and the artificial intelligence systems now available, which have opened up a whole new world, did provide me with valuable guidance and inputs.