In our view, the decision by the Mysore High Court cannot be read so widely as laying down the [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1805 Mineral Area Development Authority & Anr. v. M/s Steel Authority of India & Anr. Etc. law that the Union’s power to regulate and control results in depriving the States of their power to levy tax or fee within their legislative competence without trenching upon the field of regulation and control. There is a distinction between power to regulate and control and power to tax, the two being distinct and that difference has not been kept in view by the Mysore High Court.” In substance, this Court observed that Union’s power to regulate and control is distinct from the State’s power to levy tax and the distinction between the two had not been borne in mind by the Mysore High Court which aspect shall be discussed later. 23.6 Moving further in paragraph 56, this Court in Kesoram observed as under: “(A diversion from the main issue) Royalty, if tax? 56. We would like to avail this opportunity for pointing out an error, attributable either to the stenographer’s devil or to sheer inadvertence, having crept into the majority in India Cement Ltd. case [(1990) 1 SCC 12 : 1989 Supp (1) SCR 692 : AIR 1990 SC 85] . The error is apparent and only needs a careful reading to detect. We feel constrained — rather duty-bound — to say so, lest a reading of the containing such an error — just an error of one word — should continue to cause the likely embarrassment and have adverse effect on the subsequent judicial pronouncements which would follow India Cement Ltd. case [(1990) 1 SCC 12 : 1989 Supp (1) SCR 692 : AIR 1990 SC 85], feeling bound and rightly, by the said having the force of pronouncement by a seven-Judge Bench. Para 34 of the Report reads as under: (SCC p. 30) “34. In the aforesaid view of the matter, we are of the opinion that royalty is a tax, and as such a cess on royalty being a tax on royalty, is beyond the competence of the State Legislature because Section 9 of the Central Act covers the field and the State Legislature is denuded of its competence under Entry 23 of List II. In any event, 1806 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports we are of the opinion that cess on royalty cannot be sustained under Entry 49 of List II as being a tax on land. Royalty on mineral rights is not a tax on land but a payment for the user of land.” 23.7 In paragraph 57, this Court made its inferences on what was observed by the seven-judge Bench of this Court in paragraph 34 (extracted above) of India Cement as under: “57. In the first sentence the word “royalty” occurring in the expression “royalty is a tax”, is clearly an error. What the majority wished to say, and has in fact said, is “cess on royalty is a tax”.