This is a Certificate which the Appellant No. 1 possessed on 03.02.2013. However, this alone is not conclusive. Under Section 4(2), the Caste Certificate issued by the Competent Authority would be valid subject to the verification and grant of Validity Certificate by the Scrutiny Committee. Under Section 6 of this Act, the Government is authorized to constitute a Scrutiny Committee and prescribe the area of its jurisdiction. Under Section 6(2) of this Act, after obtaining the Caste Certificate from the Competent Authority, any person, desirous of availing of the benefits or concessions provided to the said caste, is authorized to make an application, well in time, in such form and in such manner as may be prescribed to the concerned Scrutiny Committee for the verification of such Caste Certificate and issue of a Validity Certificate. Under Section 6(4) of this Act, the Scrutiny Committee was to follow such procedure for verification of the Caste Certificate and adhere to the time limit for verification and grant of Validity Certificate as prescribed. 6. The Rules called the Maharashtra Scheduled Castes, De-notified Tribes (Vimukta Jatis), Nomadic Tribes, Other Backward Classes and Special Backward Category (Regulation of Issuance and Verification of) Caste Certificate Rules, 2012 [hereinafter referred to as the “2012 Rules”] have been framed. Rule 11 prescribes the constitution of the Scrutiny Committee. Rule 14 sets out that any person desirous 170 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of availing of the benefits and concessions provided to the reserved category shall submit an application in the prescribed form with an affidavit to the concerned Scrutiny Committee for verification of his caste claim and issuance of Caste Validity Certificate well in time. Rule 15 mandates that the application for verification of Caste Certificate under Rule 14 shall be filed or submitted well in time in such form and in such manner as may be prescribed in Rule 17. Further Rule 16 provides for the information to be supplied by the applicant. It states that to enable the Scrutiny Committee to decide the application expeditiously, the documents/information set out therein, was to be produced. Apart from setting out certain documents, sub- clause (f) provides for the furnishing of other relevant evidence, if any, subject to admissibility. Explanation 2 of Rule 16 speaks of the applicant undertaking the production of original documents as and when required by the Scrutiny Committee. 7. Rule 17, which prescribes the procedure of Scrutiny Committee, is significant for this case. Sub-Rules 1 to Sub- Rules 3 of Rule 17 are extracted herein below: “17 (1) On receipt of application, the Scrutiny Committee shall ensure that the application and the information supplied therewith is complete in all respects and to carry out scrutiny of the application. (2) Notwithstanding anything contained in these rules, the claimant or applicant or complainant shall be personally responsible for removal of objections raised by Scrutiny Committee, if any, within two weeks or within such extended period, which shall not be more than six weeks, failing which the claim or application or complaint shall be disposed of, by appreciating available records and such decision may be communicated to the applicant by the Scrutiny Committee.