Therefore, it was submitted that the document executed in terms of Section 4 of the MOF Act cannot be construed to be a “conveyance”. He also submitted that under the same Act, duty can be levied only on the “instrument” and not on any “transaction”. Here, in the [2024] 9 S.C.R. 889 Shyamsundar Radheshyam Agrawal & Anr. v. Pushpabai Nilkanth Patil & Ors present case, by Explanation I to Article 25 of Schedule I, what has been done is to provide for levy of duty on a “transaction”, namely, handing over possession and not on the “instrument” as such and hence the provision is ultra vires the Constitution. 7. Under Entry 44 of List III-Concurrent List of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution, any State as well as the Central Government can levy stamp duties other than duties or fees collected by means of judicial stamps, but not including rates of stamp duty and in respect of such instruments mentioned in Entry 91 of List I-Union List of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution. A duty is leviable under Section 3 of the Bombay Stamp Act which indicates the instruments executed in the State or those outside the State but brought into the State for the first time relating to any property situate or to any matter or thing done or to be done in the State shall be chargeable to stamp duty prescribed under the Bombay Stamp Act. Article 25 of Schedule I refers to conveyance and the amount of conveyance as sought to be explained by the Explanation. Explanation I to Article 25 of Schedule I to the Bombay Stamp Act reads as follows: “Explanation I.—For the purposes of this article, where in the case of agreement to sell an immovable property, the possession of any immovable property is transferred to the purchaser before the execution, or at the time of execution, or after the execution of such agreement without executing the conveyance in respect thereof, then such agreement to sell shall be deemed to be a conveyance and stamp duty thereon shall be leviable accordingly: Provided that, the provisions of Section 32-A shall apply mutatis mutandis to such agreement which is deemed to be a conveyance as aforesaid, as they apply to a conveyance under that Section: Provided further that, where subsequently a conveyance is executed in pursuance of such agreement of sale, the stamp duty, if any, already paid and recovered on the agreement of sale which is deemed to be a conveyance, 890 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports shall be adjusted towards the total duty leviable on the conveyance.” 8. The duty in respect of an agreement covered by the Explanation is leviable as if it is a conveyance. The conditions to be fulfilled are that if there is an agreement to sell immovable property and possession of such property is transferred to the purchaser before the execution or at the time of execution or subsequently without executing any conveyance in respect thereof, such an agreement to sell is deemed to be a “conveyance”.