He thundered: 197 Ibid, pp. 255-256 198 Ibid, p. 256 [2024] 10 S.C.R. 571 Sukanya Shantha v. Union of India & Ors. “When we compare our present position with the one which it was our lot to bear in Indian society of the pre- British days, we find that, instead of marching on, we are only marking time. Before the British, we were in the loathsome condition due to our untouchability. Has the British Government done anything to remove it ? Before the British, we could not enter the temple. Can we enter now ? Before the British, we were denied entry into the Police Force. Does the British Government admit us in the Force? Before the British, we were not allowed to serve in the Military. Is that career now open to us? To none of these questions can we give an affirmative answer… there is certainly no fundamental change in our position. Indeed, so far as we were concerned, the British Government has accepted the social arrangements as it found them, and has preserved them faithfully... Our wrongs have remained as open sores and they have not been righted, although 150 years of British rule have rolled away.”199 (emphasis added) In his classic “Annihilation of Caste”, he stated: “Caste System is not merely division of labour. It is also a division of labourers. Civilized society undoubtedly needs division of labour. But in no civilized society is division of labour accompanied by this unnatural division of labourers into water-tight compartments. Caste System is not merely a division of labourers which is quite different from division of labour—it is an heirarchy in which the divisions of labourers are graded one above the other.”200 118. Like Dr Ambedkar, other scholars have documented how the British reinforced the caste system by not interfering in the matters of caste- based customs. While in enacting the Criminal Tribes Act, the British directly applied the logic of caste, in courts, they facilitated caste oppression directly or directly. In this regard, Marc Galanter noted: 199 “Dr. Ambedkar at the Round Table Conferences”, in Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar: Writings and Speeches, Vol. 2, p. 504 200 B.R. Ambedkar, “Annihilation of Caste”, in Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar: Writings and Speeches, Vol. 1, p. 47 572 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “… from the early days of the “British” legal system a group of matters that might roughly be described as family law - marriage and divorce, adoption, joint family, guardianship, minority, legitimacy, inheritance, and succession, religious endowments - were set aside and left subject to the laws of the various religious communities; i.e., the applicable law in these fields was “personal” rather than territorial. In these family and religious matters Hindus were ruled by dharmasastra not by the ancient texts as such, but as interpreted by the commentators accepted in the locality. At first the courts relied on Brahmin pundits or sastris to advise them on the applicable rules and their interpretation…”201 He highlighted the practice of British non-interference as follows: “The cases show widespread acquiescence by local authorities in the enforcement of these disabilities and suggest that active governmental support of these practices at a local level was at least not uncommon.