It found that compensation was therefore not payable to the appellant. It later dismissed the application for review of its on the ground that no new facts were placed on record which would warrant a review. The Tribunal also observed that the secret witnesses examined by the IO were not examined. 396 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 11. On appeal, the High Court dismissed the appeal against the decision of the Tribunal. By its dated 7 January 2014, the High Court held that: a. From the material available on record, it appeared that the body of the deceased was found lying near the railway track. However, nothing on record indicated that the deceased was travelling as a passenger on the train; b. The post-mortem report indicated that the death took place between forty-eight and seventy-two hours before the conduct of the post-mortem, which was on 9 September 2003 at 1:30 pm. From this, it cannot conclusively be held that the deceased died on 5 September 2003; and c. The report filed by the IO is not supported by substantive material. Since he had no personal knowledge regarding the cause of death, his report cannot be accepted as evidence of the fact that the deceased was travelling as a passenger on the train in question. The Court therefore concluded that the appellant failed to establish that the deceased was travelling as a passenger on 5 September 2023 on the train in question. 12. The High Court later dismissed the review petition preferred by the appellant. It held that: a. The material facts as well as the questions of law had been considered in the under review; and b. The report of the IO was based on a “secret enquiry” conducted by him. The IO did not disclose the material facts which led him to conclude that the deceased was travelling in the train. Further, he was not examined. The opinion of the IO, as recorded in his report, was therefore not substantiated. Therefore, the High Court concluded that the appellant had not made out a case that there was an error apparent on the face of the record. C. The errors in the s of the Railway Claims Tribunal and the High Court 13. From the recapitulation of the various judicial pronouncements leading to the present appeal, it can be seen that the primary issue [2024] 8 S.C.R. 397 Doli Rani Saha v. Union of India is whether the deceased was travelling on the train in question. In Rina Devi (supra), a two-Judge Bench of this Court considered the question of the party on which the burden of proof will lie in cases where the body of the deceased is found on railway premises. This Court held that the initial burden would be on the claimant, which could be discharged by filing an affidavit of the relevant facts. Once the claimant did so, the burden would then shift to the Railways. Significantly, it also held that the mere absence of a ticket would not negate the claim that the deceased was a bona fide passenger.