683 M/s Siddamsetty Infra Projects Pvt. Ltd. v. Katta Sujatha Reddy & Ors. d. The phrase “any other sufficient reason” means a reason that is analogous to the grounds specified in 47 Rule 1 CPC; and e. The mere possibility of two views on the subject cannot be a ground for review. 20. Let us proceed to analyse if the of this Court satisfies the grounds for review. The issues which arose for the consideration of this Court were two-fold: first, whether the suit instituted by the petitioner was barred by limitation; and second, whether the suit for specific performance must be decreed. The finding that time was of essence to the contract was central to the Court’s reasoning on both the issues. E. Limitation 21. The Schedule to the Limitation Act 1963 prescribes the period of limitation. Article 54 of the Schedule prescribes the period of limitation for a suit for specific performance of a contract: Description of suit Period of limitation Time from which period begins to run 54. For specific Three years The date fixed for the performance of a performance, or, if no such contract date is fixed, when the plaintiff has notice that performance is refused. 22. The provision has two parts. The first part deals with situations where the contract fixes a date for performance. The period of limitation of three years runs from the date fixed for completion of performance. The second part deals with situations where the contract does not fix a date for the performance of the contract. In such situations, the period of limitation runs from the date when the plaintiff has notice that the defendant has refused performance. 23. The issue for consideration was whether the sale agreements fix a date for the performance of the agreement. This Court referred to Clauses 3, 21, and 23 to hold that the agreement fixes a date of three months for performance. This Court interpreted Clause 3 as follows: “31. At the outset, this Court has perused Clause 3 of the agreements, which is in two parts. The first part 684 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports provides for the purchaser’s obligations, while the second part details the obligation of the vendors to provide the requisite certificates. Although both the obligations were required to be completed within the stipulated period of three months, there is a substantive difference between these two sets of obligations. The obligation upon the vendors concerned was production of certain certificates, such as income tax exemption certificate and agriculture certificate. No consequences were spelt out for non-performance of such obligations. Whereas the obligation on the purchaser, was to make the complete payment of the sale consideration within three months. The clause further mandates forfeiture of the advance amount if the payment obligation is not met within the time period stipulated therein.” (emphasis supplied) 24. This Court observed that Clause 3 casts two obligations: one on the petitioner/purchaser and the other on the respondents/vendors. To this extent, we find no error.