[2024] 4 S.C.R. 1 : 2024 INSC 257 Level 9 Biz Pvt. Ltd. v. Himachal Pradesh Housing and Urban Development Authority & Another (Civil Appeal No. 4626 of 2024) 02 April 2024 [Bela M. Trivedi* and Pankaj Mithal, JJ.] Issue for Consideration Matter pertains to the correctness of the passed by the High Court disposing the writ petition by accepting the statements of the respondent no. 1-tenderee and respondent no. 2-successful bidder, permitting the respondent no.1 to withdraw the cancellation of initial tendering process and permitting the respondent no. 2 to execute the project on the same terms and conditions as in the initial tender, though the said tender was already withdrawn by the respondent no.1 in view of the report of the independent Committee confirming gross irregularities and illegalities committed by the officers of the respondent no.1. Headnotes Tender – Notice inviting tender – Issuance of letter of intent in favour of the successful bidder by the tenderee – Challenge to, by the unsuccessful bidder – Cancellation of initial tender process by the tenderee and withdrawal of the letter of intent issued in favour of the successful bidder on account of pending litigations in the High Court – Thereafter, issuance of fresh NIT by tenderee – Challenge to – High Court disposed of the writ petition by merely accepting the statement of the tenderee that it had no objection to go ahead with the initial tendering process and the statement of the initial successful bidder that it was ready to execute the project on the same terms and conditions as initially agreed, though the said tender was already withdrawn by the tenderee in view of the irregularities and illegalities committed by it, as recorded by an independent committee appointed by the High Court in earlier writ petitions – Correctness: * Author 2 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Held: No right whatsoever created in favour of the respondent no. 2-successful bidder, and the respondent no. 1 HIMUDA-tenderee cancelled the tender and issued fresh NIT, as such the respondent no. 1 could not have agreed to allow the respondent no. 2, who was found to be not technically qualified, to go ahead with the execution of the project in question and that too without giving the other two parties any opportunity to negotiate – Respondent no. 1 in collusion with the respondent no. 2, took the High Court for a ride and misused the process of law for covering up the irregularities and illegalities committed in the tender process by the officers of the respondent no. 1 – High Court also could not notice the ill-intention of the respondent nos. 1 and 2 and disposed of the petition, permitting them to go ahead with the original tender – Thus, the impugned having been passed without proper application of mind and without assigning any cogent reason for brushing aside the findings recorded by the Independent Committee and the observations made by the Single Bench, is quashed and set aside – Also, the respondent no.1, though ‘State’ within the meaning of Art.