Moreover, the mechanisms established under international climate change law contribute to a more comprehensive and cohesive approach to monitoring and implementing Sustainable Development Goal 7 (SDG7) (i.e., ensuring access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all) and related international obligations.41 45. Internationally, courts have been confronted with the challenging task of adjudicating cases where significant issues related to climate change are at stake. The topics of environmental degradation, pollution, industries, and infrastructure projects have long formed the corpus of cases before courts across countries. Of late, however, an increasing number of cases are to do with climate change, in 40 J Setzer and R Byrnes, ‘Global Trends in Climate Change Litigation: 2023 Snapshot’, London School of Economics and Political Science, (2023). < https://www.lse.ac.uk/granthaminstitute/wp-content/ uploads/2023/06/Global_trends_in_climate_change_litigation_2023_snapshot.pdf> 41 D Bodansky, ‘The Paris Climate Change Agreement: A New Hope?’ (2016) 110 American Journal of International Law, 288. [2024] 3 S.C.R. 1347 M K Ranjitsinh & Ors. v. Union of India & Ors. one way or another. It is necessary to advert to the s from other jurisdictions, not because they have precedential value in the adjudication of this case but to highlight global trends in climate change litigation and to assess the manner in which courts have understood their own role in such litigation. 46. In State of the Netherlands v. Urgenda Foundation,42 the respondent sought directions to the State of the Netherlands directing it to reduce the emission of greenhouse gases. The District Court and the Court of Appeal ruled in favour of the respondent. On appeal, the Dutch Supreme Court affirmed the decisions of the lower courts. It acknowledged the obligations under Articles 2 (right to life)43 and 8 (right to private and family life)44 of the European Convention on Human Rights,45 compelling the State to adopt more ambitious climate policies. The case addressed whether the Dutch government was obligated to reduce greenhouse gas emissions originating from its territory by at least 25% compared to 1990 levels by the end of 2020, and whether a judicial intervention was warranted. 47. The Supreme Court of the Netherlands recognized the direct correlation between anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions and global warming, emphasizing the potentially severe consequences of exceeding a 2°C temperature rise, which could threaten the right to life and disrupt family life.46 Additionally, it observed that the right to private and family life applies to environmental matters where pollution directly impacts these rights, requiring States to implement “reasonable and appropriate measures” to safeguard individuals from significant environmental harm.47 48. In Sacchi, et al. v. Argentina, et al48 sixteen children from different countries sent a communication to the Committee on the Rights of 42 The State of the Netherlands (Ministry of Economic Affairs and Climate Policy) v Urgenda Foundation, HR 20 December 2019, ECLI:NL:HR:2019:2006, para 2.1 43 Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms (European Convention on Human Rights, as amended), art 2. 44 Ibid, art 8. 45 “ECHR” 46 Ibid. 47 Ibid. Para 5.2.3. 48 Committee on the Rights of the Child, Sacchi et al.