right to expression and privacy, child pornography falls outside the ambit of such individual rights and stands on a different footing. It held that Section 67B penalizes various kinds of acts pertaining to child pornography including the act of viewing such material. The relevant observations read as under: - 3.The case of the prosecution is that on 27.06.2020 at 17.38:51 hours, the petitioner browsed, downloaded and transmitted child pornographic material by using Airtel Sim bearing No.9787973370 through his e-mail and Facebook Account. xxx xxx xxx 5. Viewing pornography privately will not constitute an offence. Offence is an act that is forbidden by law and made punishable. That is the definition found in Section 40 of IPC. As on date, there is no provision prohibiting such private acts. There are some who even elevate it as falling within one’s right to free expression and privacy. But child pornography falls outside this circle of freedom. Section 67-B of the Information Technology Act, 2000 penalises every kind of act pertaining to child pornography. [...] Therefore, even viewing child pornography constitutes an offence. (Emphasis supplied) 64. In Ajin Surendran v. State of Kerala & Anr. reported in 2022 KER 7207 child pornographic videos were found stored in the mobile phone of the accused therein. The High Court of Kerala at Ernakulam observed that Section 15 of POCSO gets attracted when any person stores or possesses pornographic material in any form involving a child, with an intention to share or transmit it, whereas Section 67B of the IT Act gets attracted when a person browses or downloads any such material in any electronic form. Accordingly, it held that in view of the videos that were found stored in the accused’s mobile phone, prima-facie both of the aforesaid provisions are said to be squarely attracted, and thus the power under Section 482 cannot be invoked for quashing the criminal proceedings. The relevant observations read as under: - 204 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “3. I have gone through the first information statement as well as the final report. It would show that the mobile phone belongs to the petitioner and the sim card was examined and it was found that in the memory card, pornographic video of children were stored. Section 15 of POCSO Act gets attracted when any person stores or possesses pornographic material in any form involving a child, with an intention to share or transmit child pornography. Section 67B(b) of the IT Act gets attracted when a person among other things, browses or downloads material in any electronic form depicting children in obscene or indecent or sexually explicit manner. Thus, both the sections are squarely attracted. When prima facie case is made out, power under Section 482 cannot be invoked.” (Emphasis supplied) 65. In Manuel Benny v. State of Kerala reported in 2022 KER 9730 it was found that the accused person therein had downloaded and stored pornographic videos depicting children in a sexually explicit manner in his mobile phone from a messaging app; ‘Telegram’ for private viewing.