20 per cent for the recruitment by the Patna High Court and 40 per cent for the recruitment under the Gujarat High Court respectively. 9. The learned counsel on behalf of the writ petitioners contend that the selection process is vitiated as the same is in contravention of the law laid down in All India Judges (2002) where a three Judges Bench after deliberating on the report dated 11.11.1999 submitted by Shetty Commission, inter alia, in the matter of direct recruitment of judicial officers, opined that subject to various modifications in 548 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the , all other recommendations of the Commission are accepted. As because Shetty Commission while suggesting the procedure for selection of judicial officers had specifically indicated that the interview segment shall carry 50 marks without any minimum cut-off marks, the prescription of minimum marks in the viva-voce test is contended to be arbitrary and unreasonable. 10. According to the learned counsel, the writ petitioners have better aggregate score (written and viva-voce combined), but are deprived of selection only because they failed to secure the qualifying marks in the interview. It is additionally argued that the interview marks are arbitrarily awarded and that is why the Shetty Commission recommended doing away with the cut-off of marks, in the viva-voce segment. 11. Mr. Ajit Kumar Sinha, learned senior counsel appearing in the lead writ petition, highlights the discrepancies in the Bihar selection process. Commenting on the meandering nature of the selection process under the Patna High Court and the decision taken for the moderation of marks and granting further relaxation of 5% in aggregate marks in the written examination, Mr. Sinha argued that moderation of marks should have been considered for the interview segment, as well for facilitating selection of those who scored high marks in the written examination but failed to qualify only for securing the below cut off marks in the interview segment. The learned counsel questions the fairness of the process which needed repeated course correction such as resorting to moderation and the relaxation of aggregate marks in the written test segment, as is clearly admitted in the additional affidavit of the Patna High Court. It is therefore argued that the Court should not only pass appropriate on the faulty selection process but should also allow appointment on the basis of the aggregate score (written+viva) basis, without enforcing the cut-off marks bar, in the viva segment. 12. According to the petitioner’s counsel, even after the declaration of the final result on 8.4.2016, the Selection and Appointment Committee, continued to act till September, 2016, by issuing corrigendum, publishing fresh result of the written examination, conducting interviews for a few candidates and publishing the ultimate result. It is then argued by Mr. Sinha that if the Patna High Court wanted to consider candidates from a larger pool, because of the large number [2024] 6 S.C.R. 549 Abhimeet Sinha & Ors. v. High Court of Judicature at Patna & Ors. of vacancies, the relaxation of qualifying marks in the interview segment should have been a natural option.