Negi, T.K. Nayak, Ms. Marbiang Khongwir, Ms. Taruna Ardhendumauli Prasad, Pranav Sachdeva, Sanjay Kumar Visen, Ankur S. Kulkarni, Pashupathi Nath Razdan, M. Shoeb Alam, Abhinav Mukerji, Nishe Rajen Shonker, Mrs. Anu K Joy, Alim Anvar, Abraham Mathew, Santosh Krishnan, Sahil Bhalaik, Hitesh kumar Sharma, S.K. Rajora, Akhileshwar Jha, Amit Kumar Chawla, Ms. Ritika Raj, Ms. Komal, Ms. Niharika Dwivedi, M. Yogesh Kanna, Ms. Vanshaja Shukla, Ms. Ankeeta Appanna, Ms. Rachna Gandhi, Raghvendra Kumar, Anand Kumar Dubey, Ms. Inderdeep Kaur Raina, Kartikeya Rastogi, Karan Sharma, Ms. Princy Sharma, Ms. Mrinal Elker Mazumdar, Ms. Indira Bhaskar, Vineet Singh, Kumar Vaibhav, Ms. Devina Sehgal, Advs. for the Respondents. / of the Supreme Court Bela M. Trivedi, J. 1. The petitioners claiming to be the social activists have filed the present petition under Article 32 of the Constitution of India seeking various directions against the States and Union Territories to formulate a scheme to implement the concept of Community Kitchens to combat hunger, malnutrition and starvation and the deaths resulting thereof. The petitioners have also sought direction against the National Legal Services Authority to formulate a scheme in to further the provisions of Article 50(1)A of the Constitution, as also against the Central Government to create a National Food Grid beyond the scope of the Public Distribution Scheme. 816 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 2. This Court vide the dated 27.10.2021 had directed the Union of India to interact with the concerned stakeholders for consideration of the Community Kitchens Scheme or any other similar schemes relating to Community Kitchens which are already in operation in different states. Subsequently also various s were passed by the Court directing the States to attend the meetings managed by the Union of India for exploring the possibility of framing up of the Community Kitchens Scheme. 3. The States/Union Territories have filed their counter affidavits/ responses stating in detail about the schemes adopted and enforced in their respective states like Poshan Abhiyan, Take Home Ration, Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana, Mid-Day Meal, Open Market Sales Scheme, One Nation One Ration Card Scheme, Annapurna Scheme, Antyodaya Anna Yojana etc. also stating that some of the schemes are monitored by the Integrated Child Development Services and Integrated Tribal Development Program. The States in their respective affidavits had also stated that there were no deaths reported due to starvation or malnutrition. The Union of India has also submitted that the Government is committed to focus on combating hunger and malnutrition by implementing various schemes through the State Governments to enhance the food security. As per the submission, the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana was launched to address economic disruptions and is extended to free grain provision to Antyodaya Anna Yojana and Priority Households to alleviate poverty burdens; Atma Nirbhar Bharat Package allocated additional food grain for migrants during the Covid-19 crisis; Pradhan Mantri Poshan Shakti Nirman Scheme aims to improve nutrition among school students and accordingly allocates food grains; Scheme for Adolescent Girls focuses to improve the health and nutrition of adolescent girls aged 11 to 18 years; Annapurna Scheme provides indigent senior citizens with free food grains.