List of Acts Uttar Pradesh Government Servant (Discipline and Appeal) Rules, 1999. List of Keywords Government Servant; Major Penalty; Disciplinary proceedings; Recording evidence; Examination of witness. Case Arising From CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 12509 of 2024 From the and dated 30.07.2018 of the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad, Lucknow Bench in SB No. 6850 of 2016 1636 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Appearances for Parties R. Balasubramanian, Sr. Adv., V. Pattabhiram, Christopher Dsouza, Advs. for the Appellant. Bhakti Vardhan Singh, Adv. for the Respondents. / of the Supreme Court Mehta, J. 1. Leave granted. 2. The instant appeal arises from the dated 30th July, 2018 passed by the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad, Lucknow Bench, allowing the Writ Petition preferred by the respondents and setting aside the dated 5th June, 2015 passed by the State Public Services Tribunal, Lucknow,1 whereby, the Tribunal had allowed the Claim Petition2 preferred by the appellant. Brief facts:- 3. The appellant, while being posted as Assistant Commissioner, Commercial Tax, Khand-13, Ghaziabad faced disciplinary proceedings in furtherance of a charge sheet dated 5th March, 2012. The Inquiry Officer conducted the inquiry and submitted an Inquiry Report dated 29th November, 2012. The Disciplinary Authority being the Principal Secretary, Tax Registration Department, Lucknow, U.P., issued a Show Cause Notice accompanied with the Inquiry Report to the appellant. The appellant submitted his reply/objections to the said Show Cause Notice. The Disciplinary Authority, considered the reply of the appellant and issued the dated 5th November, 2014, whereby it awarded the punishment of Censure Entry as well as stoppage of two grade increments with cumulative effect to the appellant. 1 Hereinafter being referred to as ‘Tribunal’ 2 Claim Petition No. 1931 of 2014 [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1637 Satyendra Singh v. State of Uttar Pradesh & Anr. 4. The appellant challenged the imposing penalty by filing the Claim Petition3 before the Tribunal which allowed the same vide dated 5th June, 2015; thereby, quashing the dated 5th November, 2014 and directed that the appellant shall be entitled to all consequential benefits. While allowing the Claim Petition, the Tribunal came to the following conclusions: - “While going through the record available on the file it becomes clear that the Inquiry Officer proved the charges against the petitioner merely, on the basis of conclusion of the verification report prepared under Deputy Collector and the Additional Commissioner, Grade-1, Commercial Tax, Agra Zone, Agra. The delinquent officer was not involved in the inquiry. The petitioner submitted detailed explanation to the show cause notice but when we go through the punishment and the explanation submitted by the petitioner against the show cause notice, we find that proper analysis and deliberation was not done by the opp. (sic) parties to assess the role of the petitioner in the episode. The finding recorded by the Inquiry Officer on the relevant charges can be safely termed as irrational. No reasons have been given for recording those findings. The Inquiry Officer has recorded cryptic findings and concluded that the charges are proved without rationalizing those conclusions.