83. In Very Rev. Mother Provincial (supra), this Court explained ‘establishment’ by categorically holding that it refers to the factum of bringing into existence of the university, and not the founding of the institution: “8. Article 30(1) has been construed before by this Court. Without referring to those cases it is sufficient to say that the clause contemplates two rights which are separated in point of time. The first right is the initial right to establish institutions of the minority’s choice. Establishment here means the bringing into being of an institution and it must be by a minority community. It matters not if a single 43 9th Edition [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1893 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. philanthropic individual with his own means, founds the institution or the community at large contributes the funds. The position in law is the same and the intention in either case must be to found an institution for the benefit of a minority community by a member of that community. It is equally irrelevant that in addition to the minority community others from other minority communities or even from the majority community can take advantage of these institutions. Such other communities bring in income and they do not have to be turned away to enjoy the protection.” (emphasis supplied) 84. Hon’ble V.N. Khare, J. (as His Lordship then was) in T.M.A. Pai Foundation (supra) observed as follows: “254. The expression ‘to establish’ means to set up on permanent basis. The expression ‘to administer’ means to manage or to attend to the running of the affairs…” (emphasis supplied) 85. This Court, in A.P. Christian Medical Educational Society vs. Govt. of A.P.44, emphasized the importance of piercing the veil to gauge whether an institution is truly a minority educational institution, by stating as follows: “8. It was seriously contended before us that any minority, even a single individual belonging to a minority, could found a minority institution and had the right so to do under the Constitution and neither the government nor the University could deny the society’s right to establish a minority institution, at the very threshold as it were, howsoever, they may impose regulatory measures in the interests of uniformity, efficiency and excellence of education. The fallacy of the argument insofar as the instant case is concerned lies in thinking that neither the government nor the University has the right to go behind the claim that the institution is a minority institution and to investigate and satisfy itself whether the claim is well- 44 (1986) 2 SCC 667 1894 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports founded or ill-founded. The government, the University and ultimately the court have the undoubted right to pierce the ‘minority veil’ — with due apologies to the corporate lawyers — and discover whether there is lurking behind it no minority at all and in any case, no minority Institution. The object of Article 30(1) is not to allow bogies to be raised by pretenders but to give the minorities ‘a sense of security and a feeling of confidence’ not merely by guaranteeing the right to profess, practise and propagate religion to religious minorities and the right to conserve their language, script and culture to linguistic minorities, but also to enable all minorities, religious or linguistic, to establish and administer educational institutions of their choice.