93 Lakha Singh v. Balwinder Singh & Anr. 18.1. That the finding is based on no evidence. 18.2. That the finding is perverse, it being such as no reasonable person could arrive at even if the evidence was taken at its face value. 18.3. The finding is based and built on inadmissible evidence which evidence, excluded from vision, would negate the prosecution case or substantially discredit or impair it. 18.4. Some vital piece of evidence which would tilt the balance in favour of the convict has been overlooked, disregarded or wrongly discarded.” (emphasis supplied) 25. Keeping in mind the aforesaid principles, we shall now advert to the submissions advanced on behalf of the parties with reference to the findings recorded by the Courts below and the material available on record. 26. The respondent-plaintiff filed the subject suit with a pertinent assertion that the disputed agreement was executed by the appellant-defendant for sale of his agricultural land admeasuring 30 Kanals and 8 Marlas at the rate of Rs.5,00,000/- per Killa. As per the recital in the agreement, the respondent-plaintiff paid a sum of Rs.16,00,000/- in cash to the appellant-defendant at the time of the execution of the disputed agreement. 27. At this stage, a very crucial fact which is noticeable from the disputed agreement needs to be highlighted. It is not in dispute that the stamp papers were not purchased by the appellant-defendant and rather Amarjeet Singh was the person who purchased the same. The document was typed out in Gurmukhi language and the photostat copy thereof is available on record. A visual overview of the disputed agreement would show that it runs into three pages. The signature of the respondent-plaintiff, and the thumb impression of the appellant-defendant are marked only on the last page thereof. The first and second pages of the agreement, do not bear the signature of the respondent-plaintiff or the thumb impression of the appellant-defendant. There exist significant blank spaces at the foot of the first two pages below the transcription typed out on these two 94 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports pages. These observations give rise to a strong inference fortifying the contention of the appellant-defendant’s counsel that the thumb impression of the appellant-defendant may have been taken on a blank stamp paper and the disputed agreement was typed thereon subsequently. 28. It cannot be denied that the respondent-plaintiff being a Police Constable was mandatorily required to seek permission from his department before entering into an agreement to purchase property of such a high value. However, admittedly, he did not seek any such permission from the department. As per the disputed agreement, the appellant-defendant agreed to sell the suit land to the respondent- plaintiff @ Rs. 5,00,000/- per Killa, which was just about half of the market rate of the land at the relevant point of time, as admitted by the respondent-plaintiff. Going by the rate as fixed in the disputed agreement, the total sale consideration would have amounted to approximately, Rs.18,87,000/-. The disputed agreement recites that the appellant-defendant had received earnest money to the tune of Rs.16,00,000/- for the purpose of doing agriculture and to buy cheaper and better land nearby.