Subsequently, the new act, i.e., the West Bengal Tenancy Premises Act, 1997 (hereafter “1997 Act”) came into force with effect from 10.07.2001. Under the 1997 Act, the tenancy would devolve to the legal heirs of the tenant as specified under section 2(g), but for a limited period of five years. The spouse of the tenant though is excluded from the time limit provided she meets the criteria as laid therein. Section 2(g) of the 1997 Act reads as follows: “(g) “tenant” means any person by whom or on whose account or behalf the rent of any premises is or, but for a special contract, would be payable, and includes any person continuing in possession after termination of his tenancy and, in the event of death of any tenant, also includes, for a period not exceeding five years from the date of death of such tenant or from the date of coming into force of this Act, whichever is later, his spouse, son, daughter, parent and the widow of his predeceased son, who were ordinarily living with the tenant up to the date of death of the tenant as the members of his family and were dependent on him and who do not own or occupy any residential premises, and [in respect of premises let out for non-residential purpose his spouse, son, daughter and parent who were ordinarily living with the tenant up to the date of his death as members of his family, and were dependant on him or a person authorised by the tenant who is in possession of such premises] but shall not include any person against whom any decree or for eviction has been made by a Court of competent jurisdiction: Provided that the time-limit of five years shall not apply to the spouse of the tenant who was ordinarily living with the tenant up to his death as a member of his family and was dependent on him and who does not own or occupy any residential premises, 652 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Provided further that the son, daughter parent or the widow of the predeceased son of the tenant who was ordinarily residing with the tenant in the said premises up to the date of death of the tenant as a member of his family and was dependent on him and who does not own or occupy any residential premises, shall have a right of preference for tenancy in a fresh agreement in respect of such premises [on condition of payment of fair rent]. This proviso shall apply mutatis mutandis to premises let out for non-residential purpose.” (emphasis supplied) 5. The landlord’s case is that after the death of Sh. S.K. Mitra in 1970 his wife Smt. Usha Mitra had become the tenant as per section 2(h) of the 1956 Act. There is also a mention that she gave an undertaking to the landlord that only she succeeds on the property as a tenant and it was her who continued to pay rent after the death of her husband.