47011/1(1)/2002-CPAM/CA GOVERNMENT OF INDIA MINISTRY OF COAL …. New Delhi, dated the 10th November, 2003 ‘To, M/s. Karnataka Power Corporation Ltd., Shakti Bhavan No. 82, Race Course Road, Bangalore - 560 00l, KARNATAKA. ‘Subjet: Allocation of Kiloni, Manoradeep and Baranj I-IV captive coal blocks for power generation to M/s KPCL for their proposed 1000 MW(2x500 MW) TPS at Bellary, Karnataka. ………. The Screening Committee has agreed to identify Baranj l-IV. Manoradeep and Kiloni under the command area of WCL in the State of Maharashtra to meet the requirement of coal for the exclusive use in the proposed TPS at Bellary. Karnataka. The allocation of these blocks are subject to the following conditions :- (i) The coal mined from the blocks shall exclusively be used by the company to meet the requirement of coal in their proposed TPS. 18 at Kiloni, Manoradeep and Beranj I to IV blocks 1172 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (ii) Synchronization/commissioning of the end use plant should be December, 2006. (iii) The setting up of the proposed TPS should be completed by the Company before coal production starts from the captive mine. The bar chart for the coal production should be modified suitably. (iv) The coal mining will be done in accordance with the provisions of Mines & Minerals (Development & Regulation) Act, 1957 and Mineral Concession Rules, 1960 and subject to the provisions of other relevant statutes. (v) Allocation of coal block may be cancelled in case of unsatisfactory progress of implementation of their proposed end use plant, development of captive coal mine or any of them. 3. The allotment of the captive blocks will also be subject to the following conditions: (i) The end use for which coal mined from the captive block should be utilized and all the conditions imposed by the Central Government mentioned in this letter conveying offer by the Screening Committee of captive block to M/s. Karnataka Power Corporation Ltd, may be clearly specified in the mining lease. (ii) All the conditions imposed by the Central Government while conveying the previous approval to the State Government under Section 5(1) of the Mines and Minerals (Development & Regulation) Act, 1957 for grant of mining lease in favour of captive mining party should clearly form part of the lease deed to be executed between the concerned State Government and the party. [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1173 M/s Karnataka Emta Coal Mines Limited and Another v. Central Bureau of Investigation (iii) In case the captive block has been offered for washing-cum-end use, the deed must clearly specify that the beneficiated coal from the washery will exclusively be used for the end use (power generation) as approved by the Central Government and not for commerce or otherwise. Tailings, middlings or rejects, as the case may be, shall be used for captive consumption only by the applicant as approved by the Central Government. (iv) The allocattee would furnish to this Ministry detailed plan for disposal of unusable containing carbon materials obtained during the process of mining or any process thereafter including washing etc.