The only exception is if the vires of the relevant statutory provision is challenged on either of the two available grounds of challenge, i.e., legislative incompetence and manifest repugnancy with any of the Constitutional rights, and the challenge succeeds on any one of such grounds. In such a case, rights of the affected party invaded by the impugned statutory provision is protected by the courts in the manner considered just and proper bearing in mind the facts and circumstances before it. 39. The 2018 Regulations are subordinate legislation and not per se part of the central statute, i.e., the UGC Act. However, nothing much turns on it. The authority to craft subordinate legislation is derived from the enabling/primary legislation and it is imperative that such legislation harmonises with the provisions outlined in the enabling/ primary legislation. Thus, grounds for challenging a subordinate legislation to ultimately succeed would, normally, be the same. The only additional ground available is that if the subordinate legislation offends any provision of the enabling/primary legislation, that too would provide room for the courts to hold the impugned provision ultra vires such enactment. 40. Respondent 1, for succeeding in her claim, challenged Reg.10(f)(iii) of the 2018 Regulations. However, it is noteworthy that she did not challenge any other regulation. At this juncture, we consider it useful to read Regs.4 and 10 together with Table 3A. Since there is no dispute that respondent 1 possesses requisite eligibility for consideration of her candidature for appointment on the post of Assistant Professor, we refrain from reproducing the eligibility criteria. The other relevant provisions are reproduced hereunder: “4.0. dIReCT ReCRuITmenT 4.1. For the disciplines of Arts, Commerce, Humanities, Education, Law, Social Science, Sciences, Languages, Library Science, Physical Education, and Journalism & Mass Communication. [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1829 Allahabad University Etc. v. Geetanjali Tiwari (Pandey) & Ors. Etc. Etc. I. Assistant Professor: Eligibility (A or B): A. *** OR B. *** Note: The Academic score as specified in Appendix II (Table 3A) for Universities, and Appendix II (Table 3B) for Colleges, shall be considered for short-listing of the candidates for interview only, and the selections shall be based only on the performance in the interview.” (emphasis supplied) “10.0. CounTIng of pasT seRvICes foR dIReCT ReCRuITmenT and pRomoTIon undeR Cas. Previous regular service, whether national or international, as Assistant Professor, Associate Professor or Professor or equivalent in a University, College, National Laboratories or other scientific/professional organisations such as the CSIR, ICAR, DRDO, UGC, ICSSR, ICHR, ICMR and DBT, should count for the direct recruitment and promotion under the CAS of a teacher as Assistant Professor, Associate Professor, Professor or any other nomenclature, provided that: (a) The essential qualifications of the post held were not lower than the qualifications prescribed by the UGC for Assistant Professor, Associate Professor and Professor, as the case may be. (b) The post is/was in an equivalent grade or of the pre- revised scale of pay as the post of Assistant Professor (Lecturer), Associate Professor (Reader) and Professor. (c) The Assistant Professor, Associate Professor and Professor concerned should possess the same minimum qualifications as prescribed by the UGC for appointment to the post of Assistant Professor, Associate Professor and Professor, as the case may be.