The Distributorship Agreement further provides that no additions or modifications made to the aforesaid agreement shall be binding unless it is in writing and is duly signed by the authorized representatives of the parties. Additionally, the said Distributorship Agreement defines a ‘supplementary agreement’ to mean and include any further agreement or agreements 1150 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports that may be executed by the parties including such other terms and conditions that are not incorporated in the main agreement. The relevant clauses read as under: - “1. DEFINITIONS In this agreement, unless the context otherwise requires, the following expressions have the following meanings: xxx xxx xxx Supplementary Agreement: means the further agreement(s) as may be executed between the parties including such other commercial terms and conditions which are not incorporated in this Agreement. xxx xxx xxx 5. DISTRIBUTOR’S OBLIGATIONS xxx xxx xxx 5.4 Payment 5.4.1 Invoice and Payment Terms. Unless credit terms have been expressly agreed by Micromax, payment for the Products shall be made through irrevocable and confirmed letter of credit (L/C) in full before physical delivery of the Products to Distributor (or Distributor’s customer). Time for payment is of the essence and Micromax reserves the right to charge interest on sums overdue, on a day to day basis at the rate of 24% per annum. Such interest shall be payable on demand. 5.4.2. Payments not received by Micromax as per the payment terms shall constitute a default by the Distributor. Micromax shall have the right to invoke the bank guarantee furnished by the Distributor for securing payments in case of default. Distributor agrees not to seek any adjustments, set-off of any other amounts outstanding to Micromax in respect of the bank guarantee nor counter claim from Micromax. xxx xxx xxx [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1151 M/s Arif Azim Co. Ltd. v. M/s Micromax Informatics Fze 23. ENTIRE AGREEMENT 23.1 This Agreement together with the Conditions of Sale, supersedes all prior agreements, arrangements, understandings and undertakings between the parties and constitutes the entire agreement between the parties relating to the subject matter hereof. 23.2 No addition to or modification of any provision of this Agreement shall be binding upon the parties unless made by a written instrument signed by a duly authorized representative of each of the parties. 23.3 Distributor hereby warrants to Micromax that it has not been induced to enter into the Agreement by any prior oral or written representations (whether innocently or negligently made) except as specifically contained in the Agreement.” 5. Furthermore, the aforesaid Distributorship Agreement inter-alia stipulates that the said agreement will be governed by the laws of UAE and subject to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the Dubai Courts. The said Distributorship Agreement also contains an arbitration clause which states that any dispute or difference pertaining to the said agreement or arising therefrom shall be resolved through arbitration alone, the venue of the arbitration shall be Dubai, UAE and that the arbitration shall be subject to the UAE Arbitration & Conciliation rules. The relevant clauses are reproduced hereunder: - “26.