[2024] 6 S.C.R. 761 : 2024 INSC 433 Dani Wooltex Corporation & Ors. v. Sheil Properties Pvt. Ltd. & Anr. (Civil Appeal No. 6462 of 2024) 16 May 2024 [Abhay S. Oka* and Pankaj Mithal, JJ.] Issue for Consideration When can the power under clause (c) of sub-section (2) of section 32 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 be exercised; Is it the Arbitral Tribunal’s duty to fix a meeting for hearing; Whether the failure of the claimant to request the Arbitral Tribunal to fix a date for hearing, per se, is the ground to conclude that the proceedings have become unnecessary; Whether abandonment of claim by a claimant can be a ground to invoke clause (c) of sub-section (2) of section 32. Headnotes Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 – Clause (c) of sub- section (2) of section 32 – When can the power under clause (c) of sub-section (2) of section 32 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 be exercised: Held: The power under clause (c) of sub-section (2) of Section 32 of the Arbitration Act can be exercised only if, for some reason, the continuation of proceedings has become unnecessary or impossible – Unless the Arbitral Tribunal records its satisfaction based on the material on record that proceedings have become unnecessary or impossible, the power under clause (c) of sub- section (2) of Section 32 cannot be exercised – If the said power is exercised casually, it will defeat the very object of enacting the Arbitration Act. [Para 21(a)] Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 – Is it the Arbitral Tribunal’s duty to fix a meeting for hearing: Held: It is the Arbitral Tribunal’s duty to fix a meeting for hearing even if parties to the proceedings do not make such a request – It is the duty of the Arbitral Tribunal to adjudicate upon the dispute referred to it – If, on a date fixed for a meeting/hearing, the parties * Author 762 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports remain absent without any reasonable cause, the Arbitral Tribunal can always take recourse to the relevant provisions of the Arbitration Act, such as Section 25. [Para 21(b)] Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 – Whether the failure of the claimant to request the Arbitral Tribunal to fix a date for hearing, per se, is the ground to conclude that the proceedings have become unnecessary: Held: The failure of the claimant to request the Arbitral Tribunal to fix a date for hearing, per se, is no ground to conclude that the proceedings have become unnecessary. [Para 21(c)] Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 – Clause (c) of sub- section (2) of section 32 – Whether abandonment of claim by a claimant can be a ground to invoke clause (c) of sub-section (2) of section 32: Held: The abandonment of the claim by a claimant can be a ground to invoke clause (c) of sub-section (2) of Section 32 – The abandonment of the claim can be either express or implied – The abandonment cannot be readily inferred – There is an implied abandonment when admitted or proved facts are so clinching that the only inference which can be drawn is of the abandonment – Only if the established conduct of a claimant is such that it leads only to one conclusion that the claimant has given up his/her claim can an inference of abandonment be drawn – Even if it is to be implied, there must be convincing circumstances on record which lead to an inevitable inference about the abandonment – Only because a claimant, after filing his statement of claim, does not move the Arbitral Tribunal to fix a date for the hearing, the failure of the claimant, per se, will not amount to the abandonment of the claim.