It is clarified that if any one or both the accused persons fail to deposit the amount as aforesaid, they shall surrender to custody on expiry of the aforesaid period failing which the investigating agency shall take necessary steps for sending them to jail custody. The impugned and stands modified accordingly.” 11. Thus, it appears that the sentence of five years’ imprisonment as imposed by the trial court came to be reduced to four years. The High Court further held that if an amount of Rs 2.50 lakh is paid by each of the two respondents before it, then the respondents need not undergo even the four years’ of sentence as reduced by the High Court. 12. In such circumstances referred to above, the appellant (original complainant) is before this Court with the present appeals. [2024] 6 S.C.R. 703 Rajendra Bhagwanji Umraniya v. State of Gujarat 13. Mr Harin P Raval, the learned senior counsel appearing for the complainant vehemently submitted that what has been done by the High Court is something impermissible in law. The amount of compensation which is awarded to the victim has nothing to do with the substantive of sentence which the court imposes upon holding the accused guilty of the alleged offence. According to Mr Raval, the High Court having reduced the sentence of five years as imposed by the trial court to four years could not have further modified the of sentence on the premise that the respondents are ready and willing to pay an amount of Rs 5 lakh by way of compensation to the victim. He further submitted that the reliance placed by the High Court on the decision of this Court in the case of Ankush Shivaji Gaikwad vs State of Maharashtra2, is completely misplaced. 14. In such circumstances referred to above, Mr Raval prayed that the impugned of the High Court be set aside and the respondents be asked to undergo sentence of four years’ rigorous imprisonment. 15. On the other hand, these appeals have been vehemently opposed by Mr Purvish Malkan, the learned counsel appearing for the respondents (original accused persons). He would submit that no error much less an error of law could be said to have been committed by the High Court in passing the impugned . He also submitted that it’s been now twelve years since the incident had occurred. He also submitted that the amount of Rs 5 lakh has been deposited before the trial court. 16. In such circumstances referred to above, he prayed that there being no merit in these appeals, the same may be dismissed. ANALYSIS 17. Having heard the learned counsel appearing for the parties and having gone through the materials on record, the only question that falls for our consideration is whether the procedure adopted by the High Court, as reflected in paragraph 19 of the operative part of the , could be said to be in accordance with law. 2 [2013] 8 SCR 863 : (2013) 6 SCC 770 704 [2024] 6 S.C.R.