The first category of institutions is protected by Article 30(1).72 As regards the second and third categories, Chief Justice S R Das observed that the “minority cannot surely ask for aid or recognition for an educational institution run by them in unhealthy surroundings, without any competent teachers, possessing any semblance of qualification, 68 State of Kerala v. Very Rev. Mother Provincial (1970) 2 SCC 417 [9]. 69 Ahmedabad St Xavier’s College Society (supra) [19] (Chief Justice A N Ray) [“19. […] The right to administer is said to consist of four principal matters. First is the right to choose its managing or governing body. It is said that the founders of the minority institution have faith and confidence in their own committee or body consisting of persons elected by them. Second is the right to choose its teachers. It is said that minority institutions want teachers to have compatibility with the ideals, aims and aspirations of the institution. Third is the right not to be compelled to refuse admission to students. In other words, the minority institutions want to have the right to admit students of their choice subject to reasonable regulations about academic qualifications. Fourth is the right to use its properties and assets for the benefit of its own institution.”] 70 Ahmedabad St Xavier’s College Society (supra) [30] [“30. […] The minority institutions have the right to administer institutions. This right implies the obligation and duty of the minority institutions to render the very best to the students. In the right of administration, checks and balances in the shape of regulatory measures are required to ensure the appointment of good teachers and their conditions of service. The right to administer is to be tempered with regulatory measures to facilitate smooth administration.”] 71 [1959] 1 SCR 995 : 1958 SCC OnLine SC 8 [23] 72 In re Kerala Education Bill (supra) [24] [2024] 11 S.C.R. 405 Anjum Kadari & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. and which does not maintain even a fair standard of teaching or which teaches matters subversive of the welfare of the scholars.”73 58. The State has an interest in ensuring that minority educational institutions provide standards of education similar to other educational institutions.74 The State can enact regulatory measures to promote efficiency and excellence of educational standards.75 Regulations about standards of education do not directly bear upon the management of minority institutions.76 The State can regulate aspects of the standards of education such as the course of study, the qualification and appointment of teachers, the health and hygiene of students, and facilities for libraries.77 59. The State may impose regulation as a condition for grant of aid or recognition. Such regulation must satisfy the following three tests: (i) it must be reasonable and rational; (ii) it must be conducive to making the institution an effective vehicle of education for the minority community or other persons who resort to it; and (iii) it must be directed towards maintaining the excellence of education and efficiency of administration to prevent it from falling standards.78 To determine the issue of the reasonableness of a regulation, the court has to determine whether the regulation is calculated to subserve or will in effect subserve the purpose of recognition or affiliation.79 60.