Sections 65 and 71 of the PMLA read thus: “65. Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 to apply.—The provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974) shall apply, in so far as they are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, to arrest, search and seizure, attachment, confiscation, investigation, prosecution and all other proceedings under this Act.” “71. Act to have overriding effect.—The provisions of this Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in any other law for the time being in force.” After carefully perusing the provisions of the PMLA, we find that there is no provision therein which is in any manner inconsistent with Section 205 of the CrPC. Hence, it will apply to a complaint under the PMLA. A summons is issued on a complaint to ensure [2024] 6 S.C.R. 881 Tarsem Lal v. Directorate of Enforcement Jalandhar Zonal Office attendance of the accused before the Criminal Court. If an accused is in custody, no occasion arises for a Court to dispense with the personal attendance of the accused. We may note here that Section 205 empowers the Court to grant exemption only when a summons is issued. Sub-section (2) of Section 205 provides for enforcing the attendance of the accused before the Court at the time of the trial. If the accused who appears pursuant to the summons issued on a complaint were deemed to be in custody, the lawmakers would not have provided for Section 205. Hence, we reject the argument of the learned ASG that once an accused appears before the Special Court on a summons being served to him, he shall be deemed to be in custody. 12. Now, we come to Section 88 of the CrPC. Section 88 reads thus: “88. Power to take bond for appearance.—When any person for whose appearance or arrest the officer presiding in any Court is empowered to issue a summons or warrant, is present in such Court, such officer may require such person to execute a bond, with or without sureties, for his appearance in such Court, or any other Court to which the case may be transferred for trial.” If a summons on a complaint is issued and the accused appears on the returnable date, it is not necessary in every case to direct the accused to furnish bonds as required by Section 88. It is an enabling provision that permits the Court to direct the accused to furnish bonds considering the facts of each case. Based on the submissions made across the Bar, there are three issues concerning Section 88, which are as under: (i) Whether Section 88 applies to an accused who has been served with a summons or applies to an accused who appears before the Court before the summons is issued or served? (ii) Will Section 88 apply to a complaint under the PMLA? (iii) Whether an issued by a Criminal Court to the accused to furnish bonds in accordance with Section 88 amounts to a grant of bail?