PW-4 Smt. Pratima Debnath who used to look after Prabha Ranjan Das, has in no uncertain terms deposed that the Defendants did not stay with Mr. Prabha Ranjan Das. The Defendants used to stay at Beltali, A.D Nagar, which was her parental house. According to PW-4, the Defendants used to come and visit Mr. Prabha Ranjan Das and stayed in the suit property for a day or two. PW-4 has also deposed that even when Prabha Ranjan Das was ill, the Defendant No. 1 i.e. his wife did not bother to come and see her husband and the PW-4 would help him for his medical treatment. The PW-4 has further deposed that she was aware of the agreement of sale and receiving of earnest amount from the Plaintiff and was aware of the fact that the balance amount would be paid within 3 months and the sale deed would be executed and registered. 15. The Trial Court vide and dt. 20.11.2018 has held that the Plaintiff is entitled to get a decree for specific performance 1202 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports of contract and accordingly decreed the suit in favour of the Plaintiff on 23.11.2018. The Trial Court held that: i. The Defendants failed to establish that the suit property was mortgaged to the Agartala Co-operative Urban Bank Ltd. and they were not necessary parties to the suit; ii. The suit in question was filed within limitation; iii. The Registered Agreement of Sale dated 27.05.2016 was signed by Mr. Prabha Ranjan Das himself and the same was identified by PW-2 and PW-3 respectively (Attesting witnesses) iv. Prabha Ranjan Das was mentally fit at the time of signing and registration of the Agreement of Sale. The Defendants lead no evidence or produced any document to their claim that Prabha Ranjan Das was mentally unfit to give effect to the transaction. v. Plaintiff was always ready & willing to perform his part of the contract. vi. Defendants failed to prove that the performance of a contract would involve hardship on them which Prabha Ranjan Das had not foreseen at the time of execution of the Agreement of Sale. subsequent to the contract from any act of the plaintiff. 16. The Trial Court after dealing with all the issues so framed, came to the conclusion that since the Defendants were not residing with deceased Prabha Ranjan Das during his lifetime, therefore, no hardship would be caused to the Defendants if they are asked to execute the sale deed in favour of the Plaintiff. 17. The Trial Court was right in holding that no hardship had resulted from any of the acts of the Plaintiff post execution of the contract. In the instant case the Defendants have failed to show any circumstance existing at the time of the contract that if the suit land was sold, it would cause hardship to them and they would become homeless. The Trial Court rightly decreed the suit & directed the Defendants to execute the registered sale deed in favor of the Plaintiff upon receipt of balance consideration amount of Rs.