The Court directed the Chief Secretary of each State to make all arrangements for facilitating the survey and preparation of the reports by the doctors concerned in each State. 5.14 On 10.2.2017, the Court allowed the impleadment application of Silicosis Peedit Sangh. 5.15 On 1.5.2017, the Court reiterated the dated 23.8.2016 regarding compensation for those affected by and deceased from silicosis to be implemented by all States. The NHRC was permitted to file its recommendations. The CPCB was directed to file an affidavit detailing whether the recommendations in its report were being followed by quartz and other silica dust- producing industries. 5.16 On 05.03.2019, the Court reviewed the report submitted by CPCB filed on 24.7.2017 after the inspection of polluting units which had been functioning in the respondent-State. According to them, a grim picture of large-scale environmental law violations was taking place which led to serious health problems and deaths in affected areas. 5.17 Mr. Prashant Bhushan, counsel for the Petitioner, suggested further steps needed to be taken to ensure the closure of these polluting units. The Respondent counsel indicated that many units have been ed to be closed, and further action is being taken for the closure of non-functional and still-operating units. It was submitted that the respondents-States who allowed such 5 DGMS [2024] 8 S.C.R. 111 Peoples Rights and Social Research Centre (Prasar) & Ors. v. Union of India & Ors. units to operate should be made to pay adequate compensation to the victims. The Union of India be also directed to submit their response to the Reports submitted by the NHRC. 6. Having perused the various reports submitted by the respective State Committees, the NHRC, the CPCB, and the DGMS, the instant writ petition raises two primary aspects for consideration. For both these aspects, there are statutory bodies duly constituted. They would be in a better position to monitor and oversee that the mandate of law and the earlier directions issued by this Court are not only duly implemented but further necessary steps are also undertaken. 7. Firstly, the environmental aspect of the matter pertains to ensuring that industries abide by certain minimal standards to prevent silicosis among their workers. In the event of non-compliance, these industries should face closure. In our considered opinion, the National Green Tribunal6 is the appropriate authority to oversee this aspect of the matter. The NGT, established under the National Green Tribunal Act in 2010, is tasked with the expeditious disposal of cases related to environmental protection and the speedy implementation of decisions. Given that this writ petition was filed in 2006, prior to the establishment of the NGT, these matters could not have been presented before the Tribunal initially. However, we now direct the NGT to oversee the impact of silicosis-prone industries and factories across India and ensure that the CPCB and the respective SPCBs comply with the earlier directions of this Court. Furthermore, we direct the NGT to undertake any additional necessary steps to prevent the spread of silicosis by such industries and factories.