25. This Court, in SLP (Criminal) Nos. 8914-8915 of 2018 [Hani Nishad @ Mohammad Imran @ Vikky vs. The State of Uttar Pradesh], has made the following in a situation where the petitioner was faced with 31 cases: “Considering the submissions, the impugned is modified to the extent that the petitioner shall execute a personal bond for Rs. 30,000/- (Rupees Thirty thousand only) and the same bond shall hold good for all 31 cases. There shall be two sureties who shall execute the bond for Rs. 30,000/- which bond shall hold good for all the 31 cases. It is clarified that the personal bond so executed by the Petitioner and the bond so executed by the two sureties shall hold good for all the 31 cases. With these observations, the Special Leave Petitions are disposed of. Pending applications, if any, shall stand disposed of.” In Hani Nishad (supra) only one State was involved, as all the cases were pending in the State of Uttar Pradesh. 26. We may also usefully note the of this Court In Re Policy Strategy for Grant of Bail in SMWP (Criminal) No. 4/2021 reported in 2023 SCC OnLine SC 483. By the dated 31.01.2023, this Court endorsing certain directions sought by the Amicus Curiae passed an for compliance with those directions. The two relevant directions are extracted hereunder:- “6) If the bail bonds are not furnished within one month from the date of grant bail, the concerned Court may suo moto take up the case and consider whether the conditions of bail require modification/relaxation. 7) One of the reasons which delays the release of the accused/convict is the insistence upon local surety. It is suggested that in such cases, the courts may not impose the condition of local surety.” 27. In the bail in FIR No. 190/2020 registered at P.S. Savina, Udaipur, Rajasthan, there is an for providing a local surety. The petitioner herein hails from Haryana and to secure a local surety will be an arduous task for him. This condition has virtually rendered 572 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports ineffective the for bail. We need to do nothing more than to recall the memorable words of Justice Krishna Iyer in Moti Ram and Ors. vs. State of Madhya Pradesh (1978) 4 SCC 47 :- “33. To add insult to injury, the magistrate has demanded sureties from his own district! (we assume the allegation in the petition). What is a Malayalee, Kannadiga, Tamil or Telugu to do if arrested for alleged misappropriation or theft or criminal trespass in Bastar, Port Blair Pahalgam or Chandni Chowk? He cannot have sureties owning properties in these distant places. He may not know any one there and might have come in a batch or to seek a job or in a morcha. Judicial disruption of Indian unity is surest achieved by such provincial allergies. What law prescribes sureties from outside or non-regional language applications? What law prescribes the geographical discrimination implicit in asking for sureties from the court district?