At the instance of the lessee, the appellant used to place purchase s to the suppliers or manufacturers for the supply of individual items or equipment. After the equipment was delivered and put to use, the lessee used to execute supplementary lease schedules acknowledging the receipt of the leased equipment. Such supplementary lease agreements used to form an integral part of the master-lease agreements. The controversy arose because some States started levying tax merely because the goods were found to be located in their States at the time of executing the master contract. The States where the goods were delivered started levying taxes on the said goods. In particular, the challenge was to the validity of legislations of various States on the ground that one transaction of transfer of the right to use goods was subjected to tax in different States. In the facts of the case, the issue considered by the Constitution Bench was “Where is the situs of the taxable event on the transfer of right to use goods under Article 366(29-A) (d) of the Constitution.” In paragraph 27 of the aforesaid decision, the Constitution Bench held that the levy of tax in accordance with Clause 29A(d) is not on the use of goods but on the transfer of the right to use goods. In other words, it was held that the right to use goods accrues only because of the transfer of the right to use goods. It was held that the transfer is sine qua non for the right to use any goods. It was held that if the goods are available, the transfer of the right to use goods occurs when the contract for the goods is executed. In other words, if the goods are available, irrespective of whether the goods are delivered and the written agreement is entered into between the parties, a taxable event on such a deemed sale would be executing a contract to transfer the right to use goods. However, when there is no written agreement but an oral or implied transfer of the right to use goods, it may be effected by the delivery of goods. Only in such cases the taxable event would be the delivery of goods. In this context, in paragraph 28, the Constitution Bench held that it cannot be said that there would be no complete transfer of the right to use goods unless the goods are delivered. When the goods are in existence, the taxable event for the transfer of the right to use [2024] 1 S.C.R. 505 M/s. K.P. Mozika v. Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Ltd. and Ors. goods occurs when a contract is executed between the lessor and the lessee, and the situs of sale of such a deemed sale would be where the agreement in respect thereof is executed. 30. There is another decision of this Court in the case of BSNL5. This case was decided by a bench of three Hon’ble Judges of this Court. The question decided in this case was about the nature of the transaction by which mobile phone connections were provided.