He submitted that a fraud has been played by the Appellant on the authorities to get her caste certificate by using ‘trial and error’ method by creating multiple forged documents and submitting them to sustain her claim, specifically when her initial documents in support of ‘Mochi’ caste were found to be forged and fabricated. He further urged that, even for the sake of argument if it is assumed that the documents are genuine in nature, then also the Appellant cannot be granted the caste certificate for the reason that the documents on the basis of which the Appellant sought benefit of caste certificate are self-contradictory in nature. He drew the attention of this Court to the first claim submitted by the Appellant where she claimed herself belonging to ‘Ravidasia Mochi’ from Punjab State. Although the said documents were not admitted by the Scrutiny Committee, however, the documents showing the Appellant to be ‘Sikh Chamar’ were admitted and intriguingly, she was granted a ‘Mochi’ caste certificate which had cascading effect of tinkering with the Presidential as neither ‘Sikh Chamar’ nor ‘Ravidasia Mochi’ is recognized as Scheduled Caste for Maharashtra State therein. Hence, such an exercise carried out by Scrutiny Committee by considering the Appellant’s case as ‘Sikh-Chamar’ or ‘Ravidasia Mochi’ even on the surface of it as true for validating her caste [2024] 4 S.C.R. 129 Navneet Kaur Harbhajansing Kundles @ Navneet Kaur Ravi Rana v. State of Maharashtra and Other claim, was impermissible in law since neither ‘Sikh-Chamar’ nor ‘Ravidasia Mochi’ are present in the original Presidential of 1950 for Maharashtra State. 8. To substantiate the above argument, he further placed reliance primarily on the three documents submitted by Appellant before the Scrutiny Committee, i.e., (i) her father’s school leaving certificate; (ii) her father’s caste certificate; and (iii) her self-school leaving certificate. It is submitted that all the above three documents were interpolated, forged and fabricated to procure the caste validity certificate. So far as first document, i.e., Appellant’s father school leaving certificate is concerned, the Vigilance Cell submitted its report that on inspection it was found that the concerned school never issued the said certificate. Secondly, the Appellant’s father caste certificate itself stood cancelled and confiscated by the Scrutiny Committee vide dated 03.11.2017. Though on the very same date, the Scrutiny Committee validated the caste claim in favour of Appellant and rejected the benefit of same caste to her father. Thirdly, the last document, i.e., Appellant’s self-school leaving certificate issued by Kartikeya High School and Junior College, New Hall Road, Kurla West, Mumbai, mentioning ‘Mochi’ under the religion column in favour of Appellant, it is submitted that the said change was done on 23.08.2013 under the political influence on letter sent by Appellant’s husband who is a sitting Member of Legislative Assembly from Badnera constituency in Amravati district. ANALYSIS 9. Before adverting to the merits of the case, it is relevant to highlight that the issue of procurement of caste certificate through fraudulent means has been a longtime menace.