In this case, reliance was placed on Halsbury’s Law of India (Administrative Law) to observe that sufficiency of reasons, in a particular case, depends on the facts of each case while considering an application for remission. It was further observed that mechanical or stereo typed reasons are not adequate as also, a mere repetition of the statutory language in the will not make the a reasoned one. In the aforesaid case, the application for remission was directed to be reconsidered with adequate reasoning and taking into consideration all the relevant factors that govern the grant of remission as laid down in Laxman Naskar. (d) Epuru Sudhakar is also a case where a writ petition was filed under Section 32 of the Constitution challenging an of Government of Andhra Pradesh, whereby a convict (respondent No.2 therein) was granted remission of unexpired period of about seven years’ imprisonment. The petition was filed by the son of the murdered persons while the convict was on bail in the murder case of petitioner No.1’s father therein. In the writ petition it was alleged, inter alia, that the grant of remission was illegal as relevant materials were not placed before the Governor and the impugned was made without application of mind and based on irrelevant and extraneous materials and therefore, liable to be set aside. That was a case where remission or grant of pardon was under Article 161 of the Constitution by the Governor of the State of Andhra Pradesh. This Court, while considering the philosophy underlining the power of pardon or the power of clemency observed that the said power exercised by a department or functionary of the Government is in the context of its political morality. Reliance was placed on Biddle, Warden vs. Perovich, 274 US 480 (1927) (“Biddle”) in which case, Holmes, J of the United States Supreme Court had observed on the rationale of pardon in the following words: 876 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “…a pardon in our days is not a private act of grace from an individual happening to possess power. It is a part of the constitutional scheme. When granted, it is the determination of the ultimate authority that the public welfare will be better served by inflicting less than what the fixed…” (i) It was observed that the prerogative of mercy exercised by a State as a prerogative power of a Crown as in England (U.K.) or of the President of India or Governor of a State in India is reviewable as an administrative action incase there is an abuse in the exercise of the prerogative power. That the prerogative power to pardon or grant clemency or for that matter remission of sentence being a discretionary power, it must be exercised for the public good and the same can be examined by the Courts just as any other discretionary power which is vested with the executive. Therefore, judicial review of the exercise or non-exercise of the power of pardon by the Presidentor Governor is available in law.