The Special Juvenile Police Units (SJPUs) are marked by their unique ability to inject humanity in law enforcement. The task of law enforcement officers, the police in particular, has traditionally been associated by the State’s ability to compel compliance to its norms. The formation of SJPUs reflects a refreshing outlook toward police work, one which is imperative in liberal democracies’ treatment of vulnerable groups. Law with a touch of humanity and law enforcement with a boost of sensitivity and empathy are the cornerstone of the law on children. [Para 88] 3.1 The effective implementation of the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006 (PCMA) also falls within the subject matter of the National Commission for the protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) and State Commissions for the protection of Child Rights (SCPCR) established under Commissions for Protection of Child Rights Act 2005. [Para 92] 3.2 The Ministry of Women and Child Development (MWCD) and the NCPCR have been actively engaged in raising awareness about the negative consequences of child marriage and strengthening the enforcement of the PCMA. In recent years, the NCPCR has conducted multiple review meetings and collaborated with a broad spectrum of stakeholders, including District Magistrates, CMPOs, Child Development Project Officers (CDPOs), Child Welfare Committee (CWCs), and Anganwadi Workers. These initiatives have aimed to create a coordinated approach to tackling child marriage at the grassroots level. [Para 93] [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1519 Society for Enlightenment and Voluntary Action & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. 3.3 The NCPCR has also concentrated on identifying children at risk by compiling school-wise data on those who have dropped out or exhibit irregular attendance. In 2023-2024, the NCPCR identified 645,673 children across India who were either out of school or at risk of early marriage. The Commission directed district authorities to pinpoint vulnerable children from this list, prevent their marriages, and ensure proper rehabilitation for those affected. While these awareness campaigns and data-driven interventions have been vital, it is evident that awareness alone is not enough to prevent child marriages effectively. Enforcement of laws, community engagement, and support systems for vulnerable children are equally crucial. [Para 94] 4. Section 12(c) of the Legal Services Authorities Act 1987 stipulates that any child who has to file or defend a case is entitled to legal services. The Legal Services Authorities are therefore under an obligation under the Act to assist minors who file cases under the PCMA to exercise their statutory rights. The National Legal Services Authority, State Legal Services Authority, District Legal Services Authorities, Taluk Legal Services Committees, High Court Legal Services Committees, and Supreme Court Legal Services Committee have formulated various schemes to be followed while they deal with legal services to children. [Para 96] Child Marriage – Schemes, Policies formulated by the Union Government also, to empower young girls and women – Discussed – Lack in implementation of targeted measures solely for prevention of child marriage – Direction issued for introducing special scheme focusing on skill development, vocational training and economic stability for women and girls who leave child marriages – Various preventive training, education, financial support, community-based initiatives and other initiatives by States and UTs – Stated – Impact analysis of State schemes.