4,81,16,435/-. (v) The appellant had neither served as a Director nor had signed any financial document during the check period, and the appellant had already resigned from the directorship of the allegedly involved Companies two years before the commission of the alleged offence. It was Vaibhav Jain and Ankush Jain and their family members who had a significant influence and control over the said companies. (vi) The appellant’s role in the companies has been delineated in the MOU seized from Vaibhav Jain’s locker, which underscores the business relations and shows that the appellant’s architectural expertise was to be employed for the investment to be financed by the families of Vaibhav Jain and Ankush Jain. Through the quashing of the provisional attachment by the Delhi High Court, the allegation against the appellant being the beneficial owner had stood refuted. (vii) The alleged proceeds of crime through accommodation entries were directed to the families of Vaibhav Jain and Ankush Jain, and the fresh shares issued to the Kolkata based Shell Companies were promptly transferred to Vaibhav Jain and Ankush Jain during the check period. The appellant therefore was not in possession of any proceeds of crime. (viii) The appellant could not be held to be in constructive possession of the property, if there was no dominion or control of the appellant over the said property. As per the ED’s complaint also the appellant was not in possession of the proceeds of crime and therefore also the appellant could not be said to be in constructive possession of the same. (ix) There was no shred of evidence collected by the ED to show that the appellant had provided cash to Kolkata companies during the check period. It was Vaibhav Jain and Ankush Jain [2024] 3 S.C.R. 787 Satyendar Kumar Jain v. Directorate of Enforcement who had explained on their Fragrance business as the legitimate source of the cash during their recording of statements under Section 50 of the PMLA. (x) The Kolkata companies and the persons allegedly providing accommodation entries were not made the accused by the ED. (xi) The allegation of the ED in its complaint that the appellant had committed a predicate offence of hatching a criminal conspiracy and by committing criminal activity had acquired assets to the tune of Rs. 4.81 crore in his name and in the name of his family members while holding the public office, was not the allegation made by the CBI in the FIR registered against the appellant and others with regard to the disproportionate assets charged under Section 13(1)(e) of the Prevention of Corruption Act. (xii) The assumptions of proceeds of crime on the sole basis of accommodation entries is completely contrary to the concept of proceeds of crime as explained in the of Vijay Madanlal Choudhary and Others vs. Union of India and Others1. Such allegation could be a tax violation but could not be considered as proceeds of crime. (xiii) The Prosecution Complaint is silent as to when the scheduled offence was committed and as to how and in what manner the proceeds of crime was laundered within the meaning of Section 3 of the PMLA.