113 Abhishek Banerjee & Anr. v. Directorate of Enforcement authorities u/s. 50 PMLA are not hit by Art. 20(3) or Art. 21 of the Constitution, rather such statements recorded by the authority in the course of inquiry are deemed to be the Judicial proceedings in terms of s. 50(4), and are admissible in evidence, whereas the statements made by any person to a Police Officer in the course of an investigation under Chapter XII CrPC could not be used for any purpose, except for the purpose stated in the proviso to s. 162 CrPC – In view of such glaring inconsistencies between s. 50 PMLA and s. 160/161 Cr.P.C, the provisions of s. 50 PMLA would prevail in terms of s. 71 read with s. 65 thereof. [Para 16] Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 – s. 50 – Power of authorities regarding summons, production of documents and to give evidence – Procedure prescribed u/r. 11 of the Rules, 2005 – Following of, by the Summoning Officer – Requirement: Held: R. 11 of the Rules 2005, requires the Summoning Officer to follow the procedure as prescribed therein, i.e., to issue Summons in Form V appended to the said Rules – Prescribed Form V requires Summoning Officer to mention not only the Name, Designation and Address of the Summoning Officer but also the details of the persons summoned as also the documents sought therein – Foot note of Form V also mentions that the proceedings shall be deemed to be judicial proceedings, and if the person summoned fails to give evidence as mentioned in the Schedule, he would be liable to penal proceedings under the Act – Thus, there being specific procedure prescribed under the Statutory Rules of 2005 for summoning the person under sub-sections (2) and (3) of s. 50 of the Act, the same would prevail over any other procedure prescribed under the Code, particularly the procedure contemplated in s. 160/161 CrPC, as also the procedure for production of documents contemplated in s. 91 of the Code, in view of the overriding effect given to the PMLA over the other Acts including the Cr.P.C. u/s. 71 r/w s. 65 of the PMLA – Prevention of Money-Laundering (Forms, Search and Seizure or Freezing and the Manner of Forwarding the Reasons and Material to the Adjudicating Authority, Impounding and Custody of Records and the Period of Retention) Rules, 2005. [Para 17] Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 – s. 50 – Power of authorities regarding summons, production of documents and to give evidence – At the stage of issue of summons, protection u/Art. 20(3) of the Constitution, if can be claimed by the person: 114 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Held: s. 50 enables the authorized Authority to issue summon to any person whose attendance he considers necessary for giving evidence or to produce any records during the course of the proceedings under the Act, and that the persons so summoned is bound to attend in person or through authorized agent, and to state truth upon the subject concerning which he is being examined or is expected to make statement and produce documents as may be required by virtue of sub-section (3) of s. 50 – At the stage of issue of summons, the person cannot claim protection u/Art.