15 Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India v. Satyanarayan Bankatlal Malu & Ors. insertion or substitution of any matter, then, unless a different intention appears, the repeal shall not affect the continuance of any such amendment made by the enactment so repealed and in operation at the time of such repeal.” We say “not identical” because in the class of cases contemplated by Section 6-A of the General clauses Act, the function of the incorporating legislation is almost wholly to effect the incorporation and when that is accomplished, they die as it were a natural death which is formally effected by their repeal. In cases, however, dealt with by Brett, L.J. the legislation from which provisions are absorbed continue to retain their efficacy and usefulness and their independent operation even after the incorporation is effected.” 27. It could thus be seen that the effect of incorporation means the bodily lifting of the provisions of one enactment and making it part of another so much so that the repeal of the former leaves the latter wholly untouched. However, in the case of a reference or a citation of the provisions of one enactment into another without incorporation, the amendment or repeal of the provisions of the said Act referred to in a subsequent Act will also bear the effect of the amendment or repeal of the said provisions. 28. In the case of Bolani Ores Ltd. (supra), this Court was considering the question as to what would be the effect of amendment of the definition of ‘motor vehicles’ for the purposes of Bihar and Orissa Motor Vehicles Taxation Act, 1930 (for short “the Orissa Taxation Act”). The Orissa Taxation Act had adopted the definition of ‘motor vehicles’ as provided in the Motor Vehicles Act, 1939 for the purposes of taxation. The definition at the time of adoption brought the motor vehicle under the ambit of the said definition. It excluded the ‘motor vehicles’ used solely upon the premises of the owner. However, the said enactment suffered an amendment in the year 1956 and specifically excluded vehicles of special type adapted for use only in a factory or in any other enclosed premises. It was sought to be urged on behalf of the State of Orissa that the definition of ‘motor vehicles’ as adopted in Section 2(c) of the Orissa Taxation Act was not the definition by ‘incorporation’ but a definition by ‘reference’ and therefore amendment to the said definition would also be applicable 16 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports for the purposes of taxation under the Orissa Taxation Act. 29. Rejecting the said contention and referring to various earlier s, this Court observed thus: “29. The question then remains as to whether these vehicles though registrable under the Act are motor vehicles for the purpose of the Taxation Act. It has already been pointed out that before the amendment vehicles used solely upon the premises of the owner, though they may be mechanically propelled vehicles adapted for use upon roads were excluded from the definition of ‘motor vehicle’.