The writ court does not interfere, because a decision is not perfect.’ (emphasis supplied) 858 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 20. The decision was approved by a further decision of this Court in Municipal Council, Neemuch v. Mahadeo Real Estate,8 wherein it was held that: “14. It could thus be seen that the scope of judicial review of an administrative action is very limited. Unless the Court comes to a conclusion that the decision-maker has not understood the law correctly that regulates his decision- making power or when it is found that the decision of the decision-maker is vitiated by irrationality and that too on the principle of ‘Wednesbury unreasonableness’ or unless it is found that there has been a procedural impropriety in the decision-making process, it would not be permissible for the High Court to interfere in the decision-making process. It is also equally well settled that it is not permissible for the Court to examine the validity of the decision but this Court can examine only the correctness of the decision- making process. *** 16. It could thus be seen that an interference by the High Court would be warranted only when the decision impugned is vitiated by an apparent error of law i.e. when the error is apparent on the face of the record and is self-evident. The High Court would be empowered to exercise the powers when it finds that the decision impugned is so arbitrary and capricious that no reasonable person would have ever arrived at. It has been reiterated that the test is not what the Court considers reasonable or unreasonable but a decision which the Court thinks that no reasonable person could have taken. Not only this but such a decision must have led to manifest injustice.” (emphasis supplied) 21. For the present, we keep aside the doctrine of merger. Once the appellate of the Appellate Officer came into existence, the of the Inquiry Officer merged in the former. It had no independent 8 (2019) 10 SCC 738 [2024] 12 S.C.R. 859 Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai & Ors. v. Vivek V. Gawde Etc. Etc. existence. Yet, we have perused the of the Inquiry Officer and we wish to consider, at this point of time, whether the same warrants interdiction. A perusal thereof reveals a reasoned , supported by judicial decisions, answering distinctly each and every contention raised by the noticees. What seems to be apparent is the absence of any of the telling circumstances, as laid down in the decisions above, which could have warranted interference by the High Court in exercise of its writ jurisdiction under Article 226; thus, on this count too, the respondents’ writ petition was liable to be dismissed. 22. In view of the discussion aforesaid, it is held that the High Court in the present case exceeded the ambit of both, its writ and supervisory, jurisdiction insofar as it proceeded to frame points for determination in a summary proceeding, more so when the proceedings were at the embryonic stage of notice having been issued to the respondents.