There is, no doubt, no such thing as fundamental right to recognition by the State but to deny recognition to the educational institutions except upon terms tantamount to the surrender of their constitutional right of administration of the educational institutions of their choice is in truth and in effect to deprive them of their rights under Article 30(1).”]; Milli Talimi Mission v. State of Bihar (1984) 4 SCC 500 [4] 408 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 64. Section 10 empowers the Board to: (i) cancel an examination or withhold the result of an examination; (ii) prescribe fees for conducting examinations; (iii) refuse recognition to institutions that do not fulfil the standards of staff, instructions, equipment, or buildings laid down by the Board; (iv) withdraw recognition to an institution not able to adhere to the standards of staff, instructions, equipment, or buildings laid down by the Board; and (v) inspect an institution to ensure due observance of the prescribed courses of study and facilities for instruction. 65. The legislative scheme of the Madarsa Act suggests that it has been enacted to regulate the standard of education in Madarsas recognized by the Board for imparting Madarsa education. The Madarsa Act grants recognition to Madarsas to enable students to sit for an examination and obtain a degree, diploma, or certificate conferred by the Board. The statute envisages granting recognition to Madarsas which fulfil the prescribed standards for staff, instructions, equipment and buildings. The grant of recognition imposes a responsibility on the Madarsas to attain certain standards of education laid down by the Board. Access to quality teachers, course materials, and equipment will allow Madarsa students to achieve stipulated educational and professional standards.87 Failure of the Madarsas to maintain the standards of education will result in the withdrawal of their recognition. 66. In Bihar State Madarasa Education Board v. Madarasa Hanfia Arabic College,88 the State legislature enacted the Bihar State Madarasa Education Board Act 1982 to constitute an autonomous State Madarasa Education Board to grant recognition, aid, and to supervise and control the academic efficiency in the Madarsas aided and recognized by it. Section 7(2)(n) of the legislation empowered the Board to dissolve the managing committee of a Madarsa for non-compliance with its directions. The issue before this Court was 87 Frank Anthony Public School Employees’ Association v. Union of India (1986) 4 SCC 707 [16] [“16. The excellence of the instruction provided by an institution would depend directly on the excellence of the teaching staff, and in turn, that would depend on the quality and the contentment of the teachers. Conditions of service pertaining to minimum qualifications of teachers, their salaries, allowances and other conditions of service which ensure security, contentment and decent living standards to teachers and which will consequently enable them to render better service to the institution and the pupils cannot surely be said to be violative of the fundamental right guaranteed by Article 30(1) of the Constitution.”] 88 [1989] Supp. 2 SCR 399 : (1990) 1 SCC 428 [2024] 11 S.C.R.