(2) Nothing in clauses (b) and (c) of sub-section (1) applies to— (i) any composition-deed; or (ii) any instrument relating to shares in a Joint Stock Company, notwithstanding that the assets of such Company consist in whole or in part of immovable property; or (iii) any debenture issued by any such Company and not creating, declaring, assigning, limiting or extinguishing any right, title or interest, to or in immovable property except in so far as it entitles the holder to the security afforded by a registered instrument whereby the Company has mortgaged, conveyed or otherwise transferred the whole or part of its immovable property or any interest therein to trustees upon trust for the benefit of the holders of such debentures; or (iv) any endorsement upon or transfer of any debenture issued by any such Company; or (v) any document other than the documents specified in sub-section (1-A) not itself creating, declaring, assigning, limiting or extinguishing any right, title or interest of the value of one hundred rupees and upwards to or in immovable property, but merely creating a right to obtain another document which will, when executed, create, declare, assign, limit or extinguish any such right, title or interest; or (vi) any decree or of a Court except a decree or expressed to be made on a compromise and comprising immovable property other than that which is the subject-matter of the suit or proceeding; or (vii) any grant of immovable property by the Government; or (viii) any instrument of partition made by a Revenue Officer; or (ix) any granting a loan or instrument of collateral security granted under the Land Improvement Act, 1871 (26 of 1871), or the Land Improvement Loans Act, 1883 (19 of 1883); or (x) any granting a loan under the Agriculturists Loans Act, 1884 (12 of 1884), or instrument for securing the repayment of a loan made under that Act; or (x-a) any made under the Charitable Endowments Act, 1890 (6 of 1890), vesting any property in a Treasurer of Charitable Endowments of divesting any such Treasurer of any property; or (xi) any endorsement on a mortgage-deed acknowledging the payment of the whole or any part of [2024] 3 S.C.R. 845 Jugal Kishore Khanna (D) Thr. Lrs. & Anr. v. Sudhir Khanna & Ors. right or extinguishing any right regarding title and interest in an immovable property valued at more than Rs.100/- (One Hundred) has to be done through a document which requires registration and the same not having been done, the presumption in law would be that no such settlement existed between the appellants’ side and the respondents’ side. 17. On the aspect of the Malcha Marg property, it was submitted that both the Courts below have concurrently held in favour of the respondents and thus, there being absolutely no evidence whatsoever to show the same to have been bought by joint family funds, no interference was required with such finding(s). ANALYSIS, REASONING AND CONCLUSION: 18. Having considered the matter, the Court finds that the Impugned of the High Court needs interference.