67. The Investigating Officer(PW-27) also stated that in furtherance of the voluntary statements of accused(A-1 and A-2), he recovered and seized two axes and one koyta produced by A-1 in the field of Ansari and one jambiya produced by A-2. The Investigating Officer(PW-27) nowhere stated in his deposition that the disclosure statement of the accused resulted into the discovery of these weapons pursuant to being pointed out by the accused. 68. The Investigating Officer(PW-27) further stated that he arrested accused A-3, recorded his voluntary statement and seized two sickles. However, neither the so called voluntary statement nor the seizure memo were proved by the Investigating Officer(PW-27) in his evidence. 69. Thus, we are of the firm opinion that neither the disclosure memos were proved in accordance with law nor the recovery of the weapons from open spaces inspire confidence and were wrongly relied upon by the High Court as incriminating material so as to reverse the finding of the acquittal recorded by the trial Court. 70. The evidence of seizure of weapons of the offence is not trustworthy and was rightly discarded by the trial Court. 71. In addition thereto, we may note that admittedly, the prosecution did not procure any serological opinion to establish blood group, if any, on the weapons so recovered. Thus, the recoveries are otherwise also meaningless and an exercise in futility. 72. Thus, neither the evidence of the eye witness is trustworthy nor did the prosecution provide any corroboration to the vacillating evidence of the so called eye witnesses. We have already held that the FIR(Exhibit P-10) was a post investigation document. Thus, the entire prosecution case comes under the shadow of doubt. 73. Resultantly, we are of the firm opinion that the view taken by the trial Court in the dated 23rd July, 2005 recording acquittal of accused is a plausible and justifiable view emanating from the discussion of the evidence available on record. The trial Court’s does not suffer from any infirmity or perversity. Hence, the 202 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports High Court was not justified in reversing the well-reasoned of the trial Court thereby turning the acquittal of the accused appellants into conviction. 74. The impugned dated 14th September, 2009 rendered by the High Court cannot be sustained and is hereby reversed. The accused appellants are acquitted of all the charges. They are on bail and need not surrender. Their bail bonds are discharged. 75. The appeal stands allowed accordingly. 76. Pending application(s), if any, shall stand disposed of. Headnotes prepared by: Ankit Gyan Result of the case: Appeal allowed.