If already the statements of the witnesses were recorded at the village only after seeing the dead body, then in that case Ex.P1 which is the complaint, is hit by Section 162 of CrPC and cannot have evidentiary value.” 12. The trial Court also concluded that the opinion of the Medical Officer regarding time of death of the deceased totally contradicted the case set up by the prosecution witnesses in their evidence regarding the time of incident. 184 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 13. Regarding the seizure of weapons/articles, the trial Court noted at para 19 that the complainant(PW-1) admitted in his cross-examination that the police had shown him the weapons of offence on the date of incident itself. However, as per the Investigating Officer(PW-27), the weapons were shown to have been recovered on 1st October, 2001 and, therefore, evidence of complainant(PW-1) totally contradicted the claim of the Investigating Officer(PW-27) that he had seized the weapons in furtherance of the disclosure statements of the accused. 14. Taking note of these inherent lacunae, infirmities and contradictions in the prosecution evidence, the trial Court proceeded to hold that the prosecution case was full of inconsistencies and infirmities and that it had failed to prove the charges against the accused beyond all manner of doubt. Accordingly, the accused appellants(A-1, A-2 and A-3) and other three accused(A-4, A-5 and A-6) were acquitted of the charges. 15. The State preferred an appeal under Section 378(1) read with 378(3) CrPC challenging the acquittal of the accused. The learned Division Bench of High Court of Karnataka partly allowed the said appeal vide dated 14th September, 2009 and while reversing the acquittal of the accused A-1, A-2 and A-3 as recorded by the trial Court, convicted and sentenced them as above. The appeal against A-4 stood abated on account of his death. The appeal against A-5 and A-6 was dismissed upholding their acquittal. 16. The instant appeal has been instituted at the instance of the accused appellants(A-1, A-2 and A-3) for assailing the dated 14th September, 2009 rendered by the learned Division Bench of the High Court of Karnataka, Circuit Bench, Gulbarga whereby the acquittal of the appellants has been reversed and they have been convicted and sentenced to suffer life imprisonment. Submissions on behalf of the appellants: - 17. Learned counsel representing the appellants urged that the view taken by the High Court in reversing the acquittal of the appellants recorded by the trial Court by a well-reasoned is totally contrary to the settled principles laid down by this Court regarding scope of interference in an appeal against acquittal. 18. Learned counsel urged that the appellate Court should be very slow to intervene with the acquittal of an accused as recorded by the trial [2024] 5 S.C.R. 185 Babu Sahebagouda Rudragoudar and Others v. State of Karnataka Court. Acquittal can be reversed only if the findings recorded by the trial Court are found to be patently illegal or perverse or if the only view possible on the basis of the evidence available on record points towards the guilt of the accused.