II. Neither an declining to initiate proceedings for contempt, nor an initiating proceedings for contempt nor an dropping the proceedings for contempt nor an acquitting or exonerating the contemnor, is appealable under Section 19 of the CC Act. In special circumstances, they may be open to challenge under Article 136 of the Constitution. III. In a proceeding for contempt, the High Court can decide whether any contempt of court has been committed, and if so, what should be the punishment and matters incidental thereto. In such a proceeding, it is not appropriate to adjudicate or decide any issue relating to the merits of the dispute between the parties. 1 [2006] Supp. 2 SCR 986 : (2006) 5 SCC 299 [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1051 Ajay Kumar Bhalla & Ors. v. Prakash Kumar Dixit IV. Any direction issued or decision made by the High Court on the merits of a dispute between the parties, will not be in the exercise of “jurisdiction to punish for contempt” and, therefore, not appealable under Section 19 of the CC Act. The only exception is where such direction or decision is incidental to or inextricably connected with the punishing for contempt, in which event the appeal under Section 19 of the Act, can also encompass the incidental or inextricably connected directions. V. If the High Court, for whatsoever reason, decides an issue or makes any direction, relating to the merits of the dispute between the parties, in a contempt proceedings, the aggrieved person is not without remedy. Such an is open to challenge in an intra-court appeal (if the was of a learned Single Judge and there is a provision for an intra-court appeal), or by seeking special leave to appeal under Article 136 of the Constitution of India (in other cases). The first point is answered accordingly.” 14. Following the decision in Midnapore Peoples’ Coop. Bank Ltd., it is a settled principle that an appeal under Section 19 lies only against an imposing punishment for contempt. 15. In the dated 2 June 2023, it has been held that the respondents before the Court, namely, the appellants to these proceedings are guilty of contempt. A Letters Patent Appeal would not be maintainable under Section 19, if the matter were to only rest there. However, from the extracts which have been reproduced in the earlier part of this , it is evident that the Single Judge: (i) Recorded the submission of the respondent herein (as set out in the written submissions dated 2 March 2023) that even if the implementation of the minor penalty was to take effect from 16 October 2018, he would be entitled to all promotions till the rank of IG from 2021 till the date of his retirement on 31 March 2023; and 1052 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (ii) Held that there was willful disobedience of the directions issued by the Division Bench on 24 December 2019 with respect to pay fixation, seniority and all other consequential benefits including promotion.