62. We are accordingly of the view that the passed by this Court on 19 April 2021 needs to be suitably modified. A blanket direction for undergrounding high voltage and low voltage power lines of the nature that was directed by this Court would need recalibration for the reasons discussed above. This task is best left to domain [2024] 3 S.C.R. 1355 M K Ranjitsinh & Ors. v. Union of India & Ors. experts instead of an a priori adjudication by the Court. Experts can assess the feasibility of undergrounding power lines in specific areas, considering factors such as terrain, population density, and infrastructure requirements. This approach allows for more nuanced decision-making tailored to the unique circumstances of each location, ensuring that conservation objectives are met in a sustainable manner. 63. During the course of the hearing, we had requested Mr Shyam Divan, senior counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioners, Mr R Venkataramani, Attorney General for India, Mr. Tushar Mehta, Solicitor General of India, and Ms Aishwarya Bhati, Additional Solicitor General to propose names of experts for the constitution of a Committee to perform the task which the Court will assign to it. 64. Having received their suggestions and upon evaluating them, we constitute an Expert Committee, the composition of which will be as follows: (i) Director, Wildlife Institute of India, Dehradun; (ii) Dr Hari Shankar Singh, Member, National Board for Wildlife; (iii) Dr Niranjan Kumar Vasu, Former Principal Chief Conservator of Forest; (iv) Mr B Majumdar, former Chief Wildlife Warden and Principal Chief Conservator of Forest, Maharashtra; (v) Dr Devesh Gadhavi, Deputy Director, The Corbett Foundation. (vi) Shri Lalit Bohra, Joint Secretary (Green Energy Corridor), Ministry of New and Renewable Energy; and (vii) Joint Secretary, Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change. 65. Since the work of the Committee, as assigned below, would also traverse the area of the setting up of transmission lines to facilitate solar power generation, we direct that the Committee shall consist of the following two special invitees: (i) Shri Ashok Kumar Rajpur, Member Power Systems, Central Electricity Authority; and (ii) Mr. PC Garg, Chief Operating Officer, Central Transmission 1356 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Utility of India Ltd. 66. The remit of the Committee which has been appointed by the Court shall encompass the following: a. Determining the scope, feasibility and extent of overhead and underground electric lines in the area identified as priority areas in the reports of the Wild Life Institute of India in the States of Rajasthan and Gujarat; b. The need for adopting conservation and protection measures for the GIB as well as other fauna specific to the topography; c. Identification of the measures to be adopted in the priority areas to ensure the long-term survival of the GIB and facilitating an increase in its population. Such measures may include habitat restoration, anti-poaching initiatives, and community engagement programs; d. Evaluating the potential consequences of climate change on GIB habitats, considering factors such as shifting precipitation patterns, temperature extremes, habitat degradation and developing adaptive management strategies to enhance their resilience; e. Identification of suitable options in the context of sustainable development in the matter of laying power lines in the future.