The new minister, however, rejected the request for denotification. Consequently, writ 592 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports petitions were filed, seeking the release of the land based on the note file. This Court held that the notings recorded in the official files do not become decisions and confer no right unless the same are sanctified, authenticated and communicated in the prescribed manner. It further held that any recording in the note-file can always be reviewed, reversed or overruled. The relevant observations read as under: - “43. A noting recorded in the file is merely a noting simpliciter and nothing more. It merely represents expression of opinion by the particular individual. By no stretch of imagination, such noting can be treated as a decision of the Government. Even if the competent authority records its opinion in the file on the merits of the matter under consideration, the same cannot be termed as a decision of the Government unless it is sanctified and acted upon by issuing an in accordance with Articles 77(1) and (2) or Articles 166(1) and (2). The noting in the file or even a decision gets culminated into an affecting right of the parties only when it is expressed in the name of the President or the Governor, as the case may be, and authenticated in the manner provided in Article 77(2) or Article 166(2). A noting or even a decision recorded in the file can always be reviewed/reversed/overruled or overturned and the court cannot take cognizance of the earlier noting or decision for exercise of the power of judicial review. xxx xxx xxx 52. As a result of the above discussion, we hold that the notings recorded in the official files by the officers of the Government at different levels and even the Ministers do not become decisions of the Government unless the same is sanctified and acted upon by issuing an in the name of the President or Governor, as the case may be, authenticated in the manner provided in Articles 77(2) and 166(2) and is communicated to the affected persons. The notings and/or decisions recorded in the file do not confer any right or adversely affect the right of any person and the same can neither be challenged in a court nor made basis [2024] 7 S.C.R. 593 Subodh Kumar Singh Rathour v. The Chief Executive Officer & Ors. for seeking relief. Even if the competent authority records a noting in the file, which indicates that some decision has been taken by the authority concerned, the same can always be reviewed by the same authority or reversed or overturned or overruled by higher functionary/authority in the Government.” (Emphasis supplied) [See also: State of Uttaranchal v. Sunil Kumar Vaish : (2011) 8 SCC 670 at para 24] 82. In Pimpri Chinchwad (supra), a revenue minister passed an for deletion of the land of the respondent therein from acquisition proceeding, but the said was never communicated, however, the same was mentioned in the internal note file.