erroneously been made, part paid or to whom the refund requiring him to show has erroneously been made, cause why he should not requiring him to show cause pay the amount specified why he should not pay the in the notice; amount specified in the notice: Provided that where any duty (4) Where any duty has In respect of the has been levied or has been not been levied or has provision relating short- levied or the interest been short- to issuance of show has not been charged or has cause notice for non- levied or erroneously been part paid or the duty or levy, short-levy, not- refunded, or interest interest has been erroneously paid, part-paid and payable has not been paid, refunded by reason of collusion erroneous refund part-paid or erroneously or any wilful mis-statement or of duty by reasons refunded, by reason of,- suppression of facts by the of collusion, wilful (a) collusion; or importer or the exporter or mis-statement or the agent or employee of the (b) any wilful mis-statement; suppression of importer or exporter, the or facts, no change [2024] 12 S.C.R. 307 Commissioner of Customs v. M/s Canon India Pvt. Ltd. provisions of this sub-section (c) suppression of facts, has been made shall have effect as if for the by the importer or the and the time period words “one year” and “six exporter or the agent or of five years for months”, the words “five years” employee of the importer service of notice were substituted. or exporter, the proper has been retained. officer shall, within five The legislature has years from the relevant further clarified the date, serve notice on the procedure following person chargeable with the service of notice. duty or interest which has not been so levied or which Sub-section (5) of has been so short-levied the new Section or short-paid or to whom 28 provides for the the refund has erroneously levy of interest on been made, requiring him the amount due to show cause why he and permits part- should not pay the amount payment of the specified in the notice. amount mentioned in the notice to (5) Where any duty has not the extent that the been levied or has been short-fall in duty has short- levied or the interest been accepted by has not been charged or the notice. has been part- paid or the duty or interest has been Sub-section (6) of erroneously refunded by the new Section reason of collusion or 28 lays down the any wilful mis-statement manner in which or suppression of facts the proceedings by the importer or the following the exporter or the agent or the service of the show employee of the importer cause notice will or the exporter, to whom be either closed on a notice has been served payment of the full under sub- section (4) by amount mentioned the proper officer, such The legislature person may pay the duty has removed in full or in part, as may be the pecuniary accepted by him, and the distinction and interest payable thereon the consequent under section 28AA and approvals from the penalty equal to different authorities twenty- five per cent of the for issuance of show duty specified in the notice cause notices.