In other words, the matter had attained finality. No benefit ought to have been given of this family settlement and therefore the appeal of the State was allowed. The of the Prescribed Authority declaring the land to be surplus was upheld. Against this , respondent filed a Writ Petition before the High Court which has been allowed vide impugned dated 21.02.2022 on the ground that after the family partition separate notice ought to have been given to each of the tenure holder and since it has not been given, the entire procedure initiated by the Prescribed Authority are vitiated and the High Court thus has set aside the dated 18.10.1994 of the Additional Commissioner (Judicial), Lucknow Division, Lucknow. 8. According to us, the learned Single Judge of the High Court has not appreciated either the position of law or the facts in the case as were required. Once the entire objection of Late Shri Hari Shankar Tiwari regarding the family settlement, etc. were rejected not only by all the authorities,but also by the High Court and then ultimately by this Court, where the Special Leave Petition itself was withdrawn, there was absolutely no occasion for starting a fresh round of litigation which were nothing less than a ruse and an abuse of the process of law, apart from being barred by Res Judicata. 9. We are not surprised therefore that the of the Additional Commissioner (Judicial), Lucknow Division, Lucknow in its dated 18.10.1994 while allowing the appeal of the State had made a stringent comment on the Prescribed Authority, who ought not to have passed an on 23.09.1985. The Additional Commissioner (Judicial) in his has said that “this decision by the sub-ordinate court also raises question on the integrity of the learned Prescribed Authority”. 10. In fact, we totally agree with the views of the Additional Commissioner that the entire mischief has been done by the Prescribed Authority in this matter, who should not have interfered in this matter. Now it is 718 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports too late in the day to issue a notice for an which was passed in the year 1985 by the Prescribed Authority, though this is indeed a case where a departmental enquiry should have been instituted against the concerned officer. 11. Be that as it may, the appeal is allowed and the of the High Court dated 21.02.2022 is set aside. 12. The District Magistrate, Hardoi is directed to immediately take possession of the surplus land as declared surplus (33 Biswa 8 Bigha and 14.8 Biswansi) and let the same be distributed to the landless or in accordance with law and process which is now to be followed in such cases. Result of the case: Appeal allowed. †Headnotes prepared by: Nidhi Jain