Therefore, the precautionary principles must be purposefully applied to insulate from the scientific uncertainty about hazardous GMOs in future. 17.2 On the decision of GEAC to approve HT mustard/GM mustard/ DMH-11 for environmental and commercial release, learned counsel contended that GEAC in its 147th meeting decided to permit environmental release/commercial cultivation of HT mustard. Based on the recommendation of the Expert Committee as well as the comments received from DBT and DARE, the Committee recommended the following: “VI. Usage of any formulation of herbicide is recommended only under controlled and specified conditions exclusively for hybrid seed production after obtaining label claim and approval from Central Insecticide Board & Registration Committee (CIB&RC). VII. Usage of any formulation of herbicide is not permitted for cultivation in the farmer’s field under any situation and such use would require the necessary permission as per the procedures and protocols of safety assessment of insecticides/herbides by CIB&RC. Any such use in the farmer’s field without due approval from CIB&RC would attract appropriate legal action under Central Insecticides Act 1968 and Rules 1971, EP Act 1986 and the Rules made thereunder.” 2026 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 17.3 It is learnt by the petitioners that HT transgenic mustard hybrid DMH-11 seed was sown for seed selection in Kanpur and Bharatpur at the Directorate of Rapeseed and Mustard Research (DRMR). The 301st report of the Department related PSC on Science and Technology, Environment & Forests, titled “Genetically Modified Crops and its impact on Environment” (2017) (“301st Report of PSC”, for the sake of convenience) noted that the Government put on hold the earlier approval given by GEAC to DMH-11 (vide Page 26 of the 301st PSC report/Pg.672, Compilation). This is because in undertaking seed selection, it would be necessary to spray illegal glufosinate on the seedlings, for it is only seedlings which have been successfully engineered for resistance to the herbicide which could be selected for seed production. The concomitant advisory to farmers not to spray would then go meaningless, as the farmers would definitely spray for the short-term gain to kill weeds. In this regard, it is mentioned that planting of HT – Bt cotton and Bt brinjal and other such crops on commercial scale have gone on despite illegal effects of the same. 17.4 It was also submitted that the National Bureau of Plant Genetic Resources (NBPGR) had stated that India has rich biodiversity in mustard. The Indian Gene Banks have 5477 Brassica juncea (“Indian mustard”) accessions, which would all be at the risk of contamination. 17.5 On the recommendations of the TEC as regards HT/GM crops, it was submitted that HT crops being a potent carcinogen may lead to breast cancer. Therefore, the TEC recommended a complete ban on HT crops. 17.6 It was next contended that the first crop given de facto approval by GEAC was Bt cotton, followed by Bt brinjal, in respect of which there was a moratorium vide dated 09.02.2010 of the Ministry of Science, Environment & Forests. In the case of transgenic mustard hybrid DMH-11 (HT crop), the technical dossier running into thousands of pages was made available for 30 days at the headquarters of GEAC in New Delhi for physical inspection.