The argument was repelled by holding that the difference between suspension plus report and recommendatory report was a distinction without a difference. It was also held that the delinquent had filed an appeal against the report of the Regional Inspector to the Chairman of the Board. He was heard in compliance with the Regulation 26. In conclusion, Justice Krishna Iyer held the following:- “15. These general observations must be tested on the concrete facts of each case and every miniscule violation does not spell illegality. If the totality of circumstances satisfies the Court that the party visited with adverse has not suffered from denial of reasonable opportunity the Court will decline to be punctilious or fanatical as if the rules of natural justice were sacred scriptures.” Not only was that a case where the Regional Inspector held an enquiry, additionally, the Board also heard the delinquent. That was not a case on the issue under consideration here. This case also is of little assistance to the respondents. 59. The principles deducible are as follows:- i) audi alteram partem as a facet of natural justice wherever applicable at the original stage ought to be strictly complied with. ii) In cases where the jurisdiction of the appellate/revisional/higher body is circumscribed like in Farid (supra) and in the case at [2024] 4 S.C.R. 227 Krishnadatt Awasthy v. State of Madhya Pradesh & Ors. hand, courts ought to reject the argument that the hearing before the appellate/revisional/ higher body, has cured the breach of the audi alterm partem rule at the original stage. iii) Ordinarily, violation of the audi alteram partem rule, at the original stage, will not be curable in appeal/revision. However, if the jurisdiction of the appellate/revisional/higher body is comprehensive as found in Jayantilal Ratan Chand (supra) and Sangameswaran (supra), the Courts may be justified in concluding on the given facts, that the breach of the audi alteram partem rule, in the original stage, has stood redressed due to the scope and sweep of the higher proceeding. However, it will be purely within the discretionary power of the court depending on the facts of the case. This, in turn, will depend on the court being satisfied that the fair opportunity given by the higher body has ensured complete justice. Even in cases where the appellate jurisdiction/jurisdiction of the higher body is comprehensive as found in the provisions of the Jayantilal Ratan Chand (supra) and Sangameswaran (supra), there may be circumstances where the court may find that the violation does not stand cured. If, on a given set of facts, the court is of the opinion that ample opportunity has not been forthcoming and complete justice has not been done, the court in its discretion, will be justified in concluding that the violation of the principles of natural justice does not stand cured. In exercising the discretion, the court will be justified in factoring in the circumstances as the one set out in para 18 of L.K. Ratna (supra). 60. Applying the above principles, it is found that the present case is covered by proposition (ii) above.