It is only when there is a clear case of contemptuous conduct that the alleged contemnor must be punished. The power of the High Courts to initiate contempt proceedings cannot be used to obstruct parties or their counsel from availing legal remedies. 35. In the present case, the State of Uttar Pradesh was availing its legitimate remedy of filing a recall application. From a perusal of the record, it appears that the application was filed in a bona fide manner. Not only had the Finance Department raised its concerns regarding the competence of the Chief Justice before the High Court but its previous conduct, including file notings of the department and letters to the Central Government, indicate that this objection had been raised by them in the past. The legal position taken by the Government in the recall application was evidently based on their desire to avail their legal remedy and not to willfully disobey the First Impugned . 36. The objections raised by the Government of Uttar Pradesh with regard to legal obstacles in complying with the First Impugned were never adjudicated by the High Court. Instead, the High Court regarded the objection as an attempt to obstruct justice, without even a cursory attempt to provide reasons. Applying the standards delineated above, it is clear that the actions of the government of Uttar Pradesh did not constitute even ‘civil contempt’ let alone ‘criminal contempt’. The circumstances most definitely did not warrant the High Court acting in haste, by directing that the officials present before the court be taken into custody. This summary procedure, although, permitted under Section 14 of the Contempt of Courts Act cannot be invoked as a matter of routine and is reserved for only extraordinary circumstances. 232 [2024] 1 S.C.R. DIGITAL SUPREME COURT REPORTS 37. Such summary procedure, as has been held by this Court, in Leila David v. State of Maharashtra,8 can only be invoked in exceptional cases, such as instances where: “36. ….after being given an opportunity to explain their conduct, not only have the contemnors shown no remorse for their unseemly behavior, but they have gone even further by filing a fresh writ petition in which apart from repeating the scandalous remarks made earlier, certain new dimensions in the use of unseemly and intemperate language have been resorted to further denigrate and scandalize and overawe the Court. This is one of such cases where no leniency can be shown as the contemnors have taken the liberal attitude shown to them by the Court as license for indulging in indecorous behavior and making scandalous allegations not only against the judiciary but those holding the highest positions in the country.” No such situation prevailed in the present case. Therefore, the invocation of criminal contempt and taking the government officials into custody was not warranted. IV. Summoning of Government Officials before Courts 38. Before concluding, we must note the conduct of the High Court in frequently summoning officials of the Government of Uttar Pradesh. The appearance of government officials before courts must not be reduced to a routine measure in cases where the government is a party and can only be resorted to in limited circumstances.