Digital Supreme Court Reports Study in certain situations. The adherence to such a cumbersome procedure in the instant case will be an exercise in futility for two reasons. Firstly, a major part of the acquired land has already been utilized for the notified public purpose. Secondly, the study referred to above, will delay the assessment and payment of compensation to the true tenure-holders/owners of Khasra No.673. Consequently, we direct the appropriate Government to dispense with the procedure contemplated under Chapter II of the 2013 Act. The Prescribed Authority is permitted to accord an opportunity to submit objections under Section 15 of the 2013 Act and, thereafter, pass an award as per Section 24(1) of the 2013 Act. The Prescribed Authority/Collector shall give notice to the respondents as well as to other persons who claim interest in Khasra Nos.672 and 673, within a period of six weeks. The objections, if any, shall be filed within four weeks and on consideration of such objections, the Collector shall be obligated to pass an award on or before 30.06.2024. 21. We further direct that the awarded amount shall be kept in a nationalized bank in the FDR where it can fetch the maximum rate of interest. The FDR shall be renewed from time to time till the title dispute between the respondents and other claimants is resolved by a court of competent jurisdiction. Whosoever is found entitled to, the appellant-Board shall release the compensation to them as early as possible but not later than four weeks after the final adjudication of the title dispute. 22. The parties shall maintain status quo regarding the nature of the land, creation of third-party rights or any encumbrance over the subject-land until the award is passed, as directed above. On the passing of the award and deposit of the compensation amount, the appellant-Board shall be at liberty to utilize the said land for the notified Scheme and/ or for any other public purpose in accordance with law. 23. ed accordingly. 24. The appeal stands disposed of in the above terms. No as to costs. Headnotes prepared by: Nidhi Jain Result of the case: Appeal disposed of.