Further, one of the agreements in respect of 2.550 sq. meters of land was executed in favour of Mira Bhayandar Municipal Corporation and hence, no separate stamp duty is required to be paid by the appellants. However, misinterpreting the said provision, the trial Court allowed the application filed for impounding the documents and directed to send the same to the Collector for adjudication of stamp duty and penalty, which was also erroneously affirmed by the High Court. 5. Per contra, the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondents submitted that on a detailed analysis of the agreements to sell, wherein, there was a specific clause about the transfer of physical possession to the purchasers therein, the courts below have rightly allowed the application filed for impounding these documents and, therefore, the same need not be interfered with by this Court. 6. We have heard the learned counsel appearing for the respective parties and perused the material on record, more particularly, the documents in question. 7. The issue involved herein is, whether the appellants are liable to pay stamp duty and penalty on the agreements to sell executed prior to the sale deed executed in their favour, in respect of two properties viz., (i) S.No.165/4 admeasuring 2,550 sq. mtrs. and (ii) S.No.208/3 admeasuring 860 sq. mtrs. and S.No.208/4 admeasuring, 5650 sq. mtrs. 8. In to determine the stamp duty that is chargeable upon an instrument, the legal rule is that the real and true meaning of the instrument is to be determined by ascertaining the intention of the parties from the contents and the language employed in the whole [2024] 9 S.C.R. 885 Shyamsundar Radheshyam Agrawal & Anr. v. Pushpabai Nilkanth Patil & Ors instrument and the description or the nomenclature given to the instrument by the parties is immaterial. 9. According to the appellants, the sale deed having been executed in relation to the same immovable properties and stamp duty having been paid, the earlier agreements to sell which are part and parcel of the same transaction, got merged with the said sale deed and hence, separate stamp duty is not required to be paid on the earlier agreements to sell. To buttress the same, reliance was placed on Section 4 of the Act, which is quoted below for ready reference: “4. Several Instruments used in single transaction of development agreement, sale, mortgage or settlement: 1) Where, in the case of any development agreement, sale, mortgage or settlement, several instruments are employed for completing the transaction, the principal instrument only shall be chargeable with the duty prescribed in Schedule – I for the conveyance, development agreement, mortgage or settlement, and each of the other instruments shall be chargeable with a duty of one hundred rupees instead of the duty (if any) prescribed for it in that Schedule. 2) The parties may determine for themselves which of the instruments so employed shall, for the purposes of sub-section (1), be deemed to be the principal instrument. 3) If the parties fail to determine the principal instrument between themselves, then the officer before whom the instrument is produced may, for the purpose of this section, determine the principal instrument: Provided that the duty chargeable on the instrument so determined shall be the highest duty which would be chargeable in respect of any of the said instruments employed.” 10.