To that extent, Mr. Renjith B. Marar is right that the report was not put in this context. The report was put to the accused albeit in the context of the cable and knives. However, viewed in the conspectus of the other circumstances even if this circumstance is eschewed, it will not make any difference to the ultimate conclusion. The further argument that there was no seizure memo for the nail clippings is clearly incorrect. PW-31 Dr. Hitesh Shankar has clearly deposed that he had collected the nail clippings and hair samples and the blood of the accused-appellant and after sealing and labeling them handed it over to the police constable-4628. Exhibit P-45(i) marked by PW-32 Ajay Kumar, Investigating Officer as part of the property list, mentions about the collection of nail clippings, hair sample and sodium fluoride tube. Hence, the contention that the chain of custody is not established cannot be countenanced. There is no reason to disbelieve PW-31 Dr. Hitesh Shankar and the documents in support of the same. xiv) The evidence of the prosecution witnesses and even the version of the accused establishes his presence at the scene of [2024] 3 S.C.R. 929 Navas @ Mulanavas v. State of Kerala occurrence. His explanation that deceased Latha would always leave the door open for him to enter and that when he entered, he found them already dead and lying on the floor wounded has been found to be false. If the appellant’s own case is that he entered the house that night, no cogent explanation has been given as to who opened the door. However, we have not gone by his version. His presence at the scene of crime is established by the evidence of PW-1, PW-2, PW-4, PW-6, PW-23, PW-30 and PW-32. xv) The appellant was the only other person inside the house, with the other three being dead and one Karthiayani Amma, who was injured and unconscious and who later died in that state itself. There is no cogent and plausible explanation forthcoming from the accused as to what transpired at the scene of occurrence on the night intervening 03.11.2005 and 04.11.2005. This coupled with the fact that his relationship with the deceased Latha was strained clearly point to his guilt. Section 106 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 states that when any fact is especially within the knowledge of any person, the burden of proving that fact is upon him. We are conscious of the warning administered by Justice Vivian Bose, rightly, in Shambhu Nath Mehra vs. The State of Ajmer, 1956 SCR 199 to the effect that Section 106 is not intended to relieve the prosecution of its duty. However, Shambhu Nath Mehra (supra) itself recognizes that in exceptional cases where it could be impossible or at any rate disproportionately difficult for the prosecution to establish the facts which are especially within the knowledge of the accused, the burden will be on the accused since he could prove as to what transpired in such scenario, without difficulty or inconvenience.