[2024] 11 S.C.R. 535 Goqii Technologies Private Limited v. Sokrati Technologies Private Limited A manifestly dishonest claim or a contest, which is sought to be raised to a lawful demand of the money due and payable under the MSA, particularly, when, while availing the services, at no point of time, any deficiency in services is pointed out, but only by way of defence to the invoices raised, an independent agency’s report is being projected, as a support to canvass the deficiency in service, by attributing fraudulent acts to the respondent which, in fact, is not the finding of the independent auditor. Nonetheless, it is open for the applicant to follow the pursuit of detail investigation across all the media campaigns by Sokrati, as suggested in the report, however, without doing so, in to avoid its liability for the claims under the invoices, the assertion of an arbitrable dispute, is an attempt to defeat the proceedings, which may be instituted on behalf of Sokrati before the Company Law Tribunal under the IBC. Drawing guidance from the observations of the Apex Court in case of NTPC Ltd (supra) that the limited scrutiny through the eye of the needle is necessary and compelling, as it is the duty of the referral code to protect the parties from being forced to arbitrate, when the matter is demonstrably non- arbitrable. I am convinced that an attempt is made to create a dispute when there exist none at this stage. It is not just for the sake of invoking the arbitration clause, because the agreement between the parties provide so, the parties shall resort to arbitration, premised on the basis of a purported dispute, which infact, do not exist. For the aforesaid reason, I am not inclined to consider the request of appointing an Arbitrator in exercise of power conferred on this Court, merely because the arbitration has been invoked by the applicant and it intend to take a non-existent dispute for arbitration. Being unconvinced with the submissions of Mr. Kanade, the application seeking appointment of Arbitrator is dismissed being found without any merit and substance.” 536 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 9. Aggrieved by the aforesaid refusing to appoint an arbitrator for adjudicating the disputes between the parties, the appellant has come up before this Court with the present appeal. B. SUBMISSION ON BEHALF OF THE APPELLANT 10. Mr. H.D. Thanvi, the learned counsel appearing for the appellant, submitted that the scope of interference by a referral court acting in exercise of its jurisdiction under Section 11 of the Act, 1996 is limited. At this stage, the court is required to conduct a preliminary inquiry for the purpose of ascertaining whether a prima facie case exists for referring the dispute to arbitration. Contrary to this narrow scope, in the present case the High Court proceeded to erroneously undertake a full review of the contested facts, thereby exceeding in its jurisdiction at this stage. 11. He further submitted that the High Court failed to take into account the nature of the services rendered by the respondent, along with the technical details contained in the Audit Report, which require subject-matter expertise for accurate determination of the disputes.