(2) After the expiry of the period specified in the notice published under sub-section (1), the Director may, after allowing a reasonable opportunity of being heard to all such persons who have filed the objections or suggestions, make such modification therein as may be considered desirable. (3) As soon as may be after the map is adopted with or without modifications the Director shall publish a public notice of the adoption of the map and the place or places where the copies of the same may be inspected. (4) A copy of the notice shall also be published in the Official Gazette and it shall be conclusive evidence of the fact that the map has been duly prepared and adopted.” 996 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 37. Under Section 15 of the TCP Act, the Director is required to carry out the survey and prepare an existing land use map and, forthwith publish the same in such manner as may be prescribed together with public notice of the preparation of the map. It also provides for inviting objections and suggestions in writing from any person with respect thereto within thirty days from the date of publication of such notice. Sub-section (2) of Section 15 thereof provides for allowing a reasonable opportunity of being heard to all such persons who have filed the objections or suggestions. It also enables the Director to make such modification therein as may be considered desirable. Sub-section (3) thereof provides that after the map is adopted with or without modifications, the Director shall publish a public notice of the adoption of the map. A copy of the notice is required to be published in the Official Gazette. 38. Section 15-A of the TCP Act deals with “Freezing of landuse pending preparation of existing landuse map under Section 15(1)”. Section 16 of the TCP Act deals with “Freezing of land use on the publication of the existing land use map under Section 15”. Section 17(1) of the TCP Act deals with “Interim Development Plans”. 39. The provisions of Sections 18, 19 and 20 of the TCP Act are most relevant for considering the issues involved in the present matter, which read thus: “18. Development Plan.—A development plan shall— (a) indicate broadly the land use proposed in the planning areas; (b) allocate broadly areas or sector of land for,— (i) residential, industrial, commercial or agricultural purposes, (ii) open spaces, parks and gardens, green belts, zoological gardens and play grounds, (iii) public institutions and offices, (iv) such special purposes as the Director may deem fit; (c) lay down the pattern of National and State highways connecting the planning area with the rest of the region ring roads, arterial roads, and the major roads within the planning area; [2024] 1 S.C.R. 997 The State of Himachal Pradesh and Others v. Yogendera Mohan Sengupta and Another (d) provide for the location of airports, railway stations, bus terminal and indicate the proposed extension and development of railways; (e) make proposals for general landscaping and preservation of natural areas; (f) project the requirement of the planning area of such amenities and utilities as water, drainage, electricity and suggest their fulfilment; (g) propose broad based regulations for sectoral development, by way of guideline, within each sector of the location, height, size of buildings and structures, open spaces, court-yards and the use to which such buildings and structures and land may be put 19“including regulations for façade control and sloping roof conforming to the hill architecture and environs”; (h) lay down the broad based traffic circulation patterns in a city; (i) suggest architectural control features, elevation and frontage of buildings and structures; (j) indicate measures for flood control, *“and protection against land slide”, prevention of air and water pollution, disposal of garbage and general environmental control.