16. On a reading of the election petition, it is seen that the petitioner has also taken other grounds. However, in reply to the ground for non-disclosure of the account details, the first respondent replied in his written statement that the said accounts opened for establishment of Self Help Group, namely, Panthoibi SHG, Yaiphabi SHG. Paragraphs 12 and 17 of the written statement speak about the opening of the bank accounts and also stated that some of the accounts have NIL balance and were lying in a dormant condition at the time of filing nomination papers. Therefore, there is no necessity to disclose the same in Form 26. The opening of the accounts for establishment of Self Help Groups, according to the petitioner, is new plea and the petitioner has to controvert the said facts by clarifying the relation between the accounts and Self Help Groups. 17. The learned counsel for the petitioner submitted that the accounts are joint accounts which actually belonged to the first respondent and others and nowhere mentioned that these accounts are the social or charitable account. The argument of the learned counsel for the petitioner appears to merit consideration. 18. The petitioner being election petitioner and the election petition being civil litigation, the celebrated principle of variance between pleading and proof is very much attracted in the matter of appreciation of evidence. It is lawful to the petitioner to file an application to add to his pleas already made in the election petition and the only condition thereon is the leave of the court. Even in cases that require leave, it is open to the court to grant leave with or without conditions. 19. It is pertinent to note that the law is well settled that the plaintiff cannot be permitted to raise a new plea under the garb of filing rejoinder/replication or take a plea inconsistent to the pleas taken by him in the plaint, nor the rejoinder [2024] 6 S.C.R. 57 Sheikh Noorul Hassan v. Nahakpam Indrajit Singh & Ors. can be filed as a matter of right, even the Court can grant leave only after applying its mind on the pleas taken in the plaint and the written statement. xxx 23. The specific plea of the petitioner is that the first respondent has asserted some new facts in his written statement, particularly, paragraphs 1(i) to (x), 10, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 18, 18.1, 18.2, 18.3, 19, 21 and 30 and it is necessary for the petitioner to reply by filing the replication. Though the first respondent contended that the petitioner has filed the proposed replication and introducing new facts and also trying to fill up the lacuna, nothing has been produced to prove the same. 24. Admittedly, on a reading of the averments set out in the subsequent pleading/replication, it is clear that they are the clarification and amplification of the earlier pleading made in the election petition and if the pleading of the election petition is read conjointly with the pleading of the replication, the pleading of replication are the addition of facts of the earlier facts of the election petition and the annexed documents are also related with the earlier facts of the election petition.