The conviction of the appellants under Section 364A is not made out and is therefore liable to be set aside. 17. Appellants’ conviction and sentence of life imprisonment under Section 364A of IPC is therefore set aside. All the same, we do find that PW-6 was abducted so that he could be murdered. We therefore convert the findings under Section 364A to that of Section 364. Appellants are hereby convicted under Section 364 of IPC, instead of Section 364A IPC. Both the trial court and the High Court have failed to detect the flaw in the evidence led by the prosecution under Section 364A IPC. The trial court as well as the appellate court have completely relied upon the evidence of PW-5 (Praneet Sharma, father of the victim) and PW-6 his son, the victim. As far as the evidence of PW-6 is concerned, he makes no mention of any demand or ransom in the court as a prosecution witness. In his first statement given to the Executive Magistrate on 03.01.2013, again he makes no mention of any ransom. He only mentions about ransom in his supplementary statement recorded by the Police after two months on 21.03.2013. The High Court believes it and calls it a “dying declaration”. The statement given to the Police on 21.03.2023 cannot be called a dying declaration. Dying declaration is defined under Section 32 of Indian Evidence Act, 1872 which is reproduced below: 32. Cases in which statement of relevant fact by person who is dead or cannot be found, etc., is relevant.— Statements, written or verbal, of relevant facts made by a person who is dead, or who cannot be found, or who has become incapable of giving evidence, or whose attendance cannot be procured without an amount of delay or expense which under the circumstances of the case appears to the Court unreasonable, are themselves relevant facts in the following cases:— 56 [2024] 1 S.C.R. DIGITAL SUPREME COURT REPORTS (1) When it relates to cause of death.—When the statement is made by a person as to the cause of his death, or as to any of the circumstances of the transaction which resulted in his death, in cases in which the cause of that person’s death comes into question. Such statements are relevant whether the person who made them was or was not, at the time when they were made, under expectation of death, and whatever may be the nature of the proceeding in which the cause of his death comes into question. (2) Or is made in course of business.—When the statement was made by such person in the ordinary course of business, and in particular when it consists of any entry or memorandum made by him in books kept in the ordinary course of business, or in the discharge of professional duty; or of an acknowledgment written or signed by him of the receipt of money, goods, securities or property of any kind; or of a document used in commerce written or signed by him; or of the date of a letter or other document usually dated, written or signed by him.