31. We have perused the impugned of the High Court in light of the aforesaid facts and submissions and the judicial dicta on the position of law applicable in the instant case. 32. We find that the facts of the present case would clearly indicate that the appellant herein who is accused of carrying out the demolition was doing so within the scope and ambit of her authority. We find that this is not a case where the appellant herein carried out the demolition dehors any legal backing or basis; neither was the said act of carrying out of the demolition outside the scope of her authority as the District Town Planner in the Enforcement Division. The appellant was carrying out the s of the superior officers. There is a correlation between the act of demolition and the discharge of official duty. The demolition was carried out during the course of performance of appellant’s official duties. The fact that an application was filed seeking regularisation of the construction put up by the first respondent would indicate that even according to the first respondent, there was a digression and other irregularities in the construction put up which required regularisation. However, the [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1627 Gurmeet Kaur v. Devender Gupta & Another contention of learned counsel for the first respondent is that when such an application was pending, the appellant had no authority to demolish the construction. We do not think that such an argument would impress us for the reason that the mere pendency of the application seeking regularisation before another department would have been an impediment for carrying out the demolition inasmuch as there was sufficient basis for doing so and was done under the s of the superior authority and not independently as such. The fact that an application for regularization of the construction put up was filed implied that there was a deficiency/irregularity in the construction put up by the respondent No.1 herein. The impugned demolition cannot also be termed as an “excess”. 33. In the circumstances, we observe that the first respondent herein ought to have sought sanction for prosecution under Section 197 of the CrPC in the instant case. The same, not having been done vitiated the initiation of the criminal proceeding against the appellant herein. Consequently, the summoning and the consequent steps taken by the Trial Court pursuant to the said summoning are liable to be quashed and are thus quashed. Insofar as the very initiation of the complaint is concerned, we observe that since there was no prior of sanction passed under Section 197 of the CrPC, the initiation of the complaint itself, is non est. However, we reserve liberty to the first respondent herein to take steps in accordance with law and seek an of sanction. The appeals are allowed and disposed of in the aforesaid terms. Result of the case: Appeals allowed. †Headnotes prepared by: Nidhi Jain