47. Various lapses such as these cumulatively affect the overall sanctity of the prosecution case, making it fall short of the threshold of beyond reasonable doubt. It is in such circumstances, on analysis of the record, that we are unable to sustain the conviction handed down by the Courts below to A-1 and A-2. The injured witnesses and the Investigation Officer in their testimony together are not inspiring confidence, and in our own estimation the prosecution case stands shaken beyond a point to which no conviction resting thereupon can be said to be just in the eyes of law. 48. We sustain the challenge on the grounds, among others that, (a) examined private persons were interested witnesses, with inconsistencies amongst them; (b) no independent witnesses were examined; (c) there was a delay in filing the FIR; (d) there were interpolations on record; (e) there were numerous lapses in the 19 Hereinafter referred to as ‘Goondas Act’ 766 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports investigation; and (f) the medical and scientific evidence on record does not support the prosecution’s version of events. 49. During the course of submissions on behalf of A-1, the learned senior counsel appearing on his behalf had urged the right of private defence as a secondary submission, in the event of the arguments in favour of complete acquittal on finding favour with the court. Given that, upon consideration and analysis of the submissions made and the material on record, we have found that the convictions cannot stand in the eyes of law, we need not delineate on that submission. 50. In that view of the matter, the appeals are allowed and the convictions subject matter thereof, are accordingly set aside. Both appellants are directed to be released forthwith, if not required in any other case. Pending application(s), if any, shall stand disposed of. Headnotes prepared by: Result of the case: Gaurav Upadhyay, Hony. Associate Editor Appeals allowed. (Verified by: Kanu Agrawal, Adv.)