[2024] 11 S.C.R. 1459 M.R. Ajayan v. State of Kerala & Ors. (2) Where a complaint has been made by a public ser- vant under clause (a) of Sub-Section (1) any authority to which he is administratively subordinate may the withdrawal of the complaint and send a copy of such to the Court; and upon its receipt by the Court, no further proceedings shall be taken on the complaint; Provided that no such withdrawal shall be ed if the trial in the Court of first instance has been concluded. (3) In clause (b) of Sub-Section (1), the term “Court” means a Civil, Revenue or Criminal Court, and includes a tribunal constituted by or under a Central, provincial or State Act if declared by that Act to be a Court for the purposes of this section. (4) For the purposes of clause (b) of Sub-Section (1), a Court shall be deemed to be subordinate to the Court to which appeals ordinarily lie from appealable decrees or sentences of such former Court, or in the case of a civil Court from whose decrees no appeal ordinarily lies, to the principal Court having ordinary original civil jurisdiction within whose local jurisdiction such Civil Court is situate; Provided that— a. where appeals lie to more than one Court, the Appellate Court of inferior jurisdiction shall be the Court to which such Court shall be deemed to be subordinate; b. where appeals lie to a civil and also to a Revenue Court, such Court shall be deemed to be subordinate to the civil or Revenue Court according to the nature of the case or proceeding in connection with which the offence is alleged to have been committed.” 21. The principles relating to prosecutions under Section 195 Cr.P.C., as expounded by this Court in Sachida Nand Singh v. State of Bihar (3-Judge Bench);8 M.S. Ahlawat v. State of Haryana & Anr. (3-Judge Bench);9 Iqbal Singh Marwah & Anr. v. Meenakshi 8 [1998] 1 SCR 492 : (1998) 2 SCC 493 9 [1999] Suppl. 4 SCR 160 : (2000) 1 SCC 278 1460 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Marwah & Anr. (5-Judge Bench);10 Perumal v. Janaki (2-Judge Bench);11 and Sivamani (supra) are: i. The procedure prescribed under Section 195 Cr.P.C. is mandatory in nature. ii. The Section curtails the general right of a person and the general right of a Magistrate to register a complaint when the offences enumerated thereunder are committed. iii. The Section deals with three distinct categories of offences: (1) contempt of lawful authority of public servants, (2) offence against public justice, and (3) offence relating to documents given in evidence. iv. Broadly, the scheme of the Section requires that the offence should be such which has a direct bearing on the discharge of lawful duties of a public servant or has a direct correlation with the proceedings in a Court of justice, affecting the administration of justice. v. The provision only creates a bar against taking cognizance of an offence in certain specified situations except upon complaint by the Court.