9. Another allegation is with regard to having organized a meeting on 6th and 7th of July 2022 in the rented first floor premises of Ahmad Palace. The statements of the witnesses also according to the allegations do not indicate that the Appellant had actively participated in any discussions or had instigated any of the persons present there to commit any of the offence which would fall within the purview of the offences mentioned in the chargesheet. 10. The learned Senior Counsel has further asserted that the co-accused of the Appellant (Jalaluddin Khan) whose application was also considered for grant of bail by the High Court along with that of the Appellant, had been granted bail by this Court in Criminal Appeal No. 3173 of 2024.1 His role is similar to that of the Appellant except that he was said to be the person who was the owner of the building and had rented the accommodation to the Appellant. As regards his 1 2024 SCC OnLine SC 1945/ Criminal Appeal No. 3173 of 2024 decided on 13.08.2024. 1098 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports participation in the meeting on 6th and 7th July 2022 is concerned, he is in a same position with the co-accused already granted bail by this Court. Mere participation in the meeting would not be enough. The other co-accused against whom similar allegations of being a member of the PFI and participating in protests where alleged communal slogans were raised have been enlarged on bail by the High Court. Even the testimony of the protected witnesses does not implicate the Appellant in the alleged crime as per the chargesheet. 11. Learned Senior Counsel has also drawn attention of this Court to the statement made by prosecution witness Saiyed Abu Monawwar to submit that as per this witness, there are commercial establishments such as shops and pathology labs on the ground floor of the building where the raid was conducted. CCTV cameras would not have been permitted to be installed in the said premises or on the first floor also had some objectionable activities being carried out by the PFI. This also reflects that it does not stand to logic. It is not therefore logical and does not make sense where such objectionable activities were to be carried out as has been alleged the same would be in such an area as has been described by the prosecution. 12. Another submission which has been put forth is that there are 354 witnesses cited by the prosecution and the Appellant is in custody since 12.07.2022 for more than two years and four months with the trial not likely to conclude in the near future. The Appellant deserves to be released on bail as this would amount to violation of Article 21 of the Constitution of India. 13. On the other hand, the learned Additional Solicitor General for the Respondent has asserted that during the raid conducted by the Bihar Police, not only the incriminating material/documents were recovered from the premises in question, but other electronic items have also been recovered which clearly establishes that the Appellant was an active member of the PFI and had not only participated in the protests but has actively organized the same.