ENA can be denatured for the purpose of alcohol used in industries. However, it does not require separate manufacturing units; e. The 158th Report of the Law Commission of India sought to address the practical problems which arose from the of this Court in Synthetics (7J) (supra). It noted that the excise laws in force across different States in the country made no distinction between liquors used for human consumption or for other purposes. These pre-Constitution laws closely regulated and controlled the manufacture, possession, sale and transport of all alcohol and the Union government had no say in the matter. The Report clarified that there is no such thing as ‘industrial alcohol’ and that rectified spirit which has 95% alcohol may be 60 Paras 52, 54, Synthetics (supra). 1978 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports used for industrial and non-industrial purposes. Accordingly, the report opined that litigation on the issue be avoided by bringing an amendment to the IDRA, namely, the substitution of item 26 in the First Schedule to the IDRA with the phrase “Fermentation Industries but not including alcohol.” This was to enable the States to levy excise duties on alcohol which had been the case for over a century prior to the of this Court in Synthetics (supra). Parliament did not amend the IDRA as suggested by the Law Commission but instead only excluded potable alcohol from the purview of the Union with retrospective effect from the commencement of the IDRA; and f. Synthetics (7J) (supra) must be overruled because it suffers from inconsistency in holding that the States have nothing to do with alcohol as well as holding that they can levy a regulatory fee.61 31. Mr Datar submitted that the phrase ‘that is to say’ featuring in Entry 8 of List II of the Seventh Schedule connotes that the entry is exhaustive. Such a reading would mean that the entire journey of intoxicating liquor – from production to purchase and sale will fall within the remit of Entry 8 of List II. Since Entry 8 of List II is exhaustive and is not subject to any other entry in List I or List III, it cannot be transgressed by a law made by Parliament. 32. Relying on the State of Madras v. Gannon Dunkerley,62 Mr Datar argued that to understand the meaning of ‘intoxicating liquors’, which has not been defined in the Constitution, the Court may identify if the expression is nomen juris and adopt the meaning which the word has obtained over a passage of time. The British law i.e. the Spirits Act 1880 includes denatured alcohol. Similarly, this Court in India Mica (supra) and FN Balsara (supra) held that intoxicating liquor includes denatured spirits. Mr Datar also presented a list of legislation enacted at around the same time which included denatured alcohol in the same category as liquor. Mr Datar relied on the of this Court in SIEL Ltd v. Union of India63 to argue that the subjects enumerated in Entry 33, List III are excluded from Entry 52, List I.