101. The question then is whether there is any reason to not extend the principle of sub-classification to the Scheduled Castes when a nine- Judge Bench of this Court has already extended the principle to the beneficiary classes under Articles 15 and 16. It is true that the social backwardness of the Other Backward Class is not comparable to that of the Scheduled Castes since they are more socially advanced than the Scheduled Castes. That is precisely why the Constitution groups them into two separate classes in Article 15(4). It is also true that the castes included within the class of Other Backward Class do not suffer from a single form of social backwardness. The castes which are included within the Other Backward Class suffer from a certain degree of comparable backwardness but the form of social backwardness amongst them may vary. As opposed to this position, the Scheduled Castes suffer from a common form of social backwardness through untouchability. 102. It is one thing to argue that the Scheduled Castes cannot be sub- categorized on account of their limited heterogeneity and common 151 (1992) Supp. 3 SCC 217 [792] 1392 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports identity as opposed to the Other Backward Class. But it is another issue to completely disregard the application of the principle of sub-classification to the Scheduled Castes on the ground that Indra Sawhney (supra) limited its application to the Other Backward Class. We do not find that the purport of the observations in Indra Sawhney (supra) on sub-classification was to limit it to the Other Backward Classes, to the exclusion of the Scheduled Castes. The principle of sub-classification was given judicial assent in Indra Sawhney (supra) to ensure that the principle of substantive equality is fulfilled. The principle of sub-classification will be applicable to the Scheduled Castes if the social positions of the constituents among the castes/groups is not comparable. In the subsequent section, we will analyze if Article 341 through the operation of the deeming fiction creates an integrated homogenous class that cannot be further classified. iv. The import of the deeming fiction in Article 341 103. Article 366(24) defines the Scheduled Castes as the castes, groups, races or tribes which are deemed to be Scheduled Castes under Article 341(1). The provision does not offer any assistance on the criteria which must be satisfied by the castes, groups, races or tribes for them to be notified as a Scheduled Caste under Article 341. The definition clause only refers to the deeming fiction created by Article 341. Article 341(1) also does not lay down the criteria for inclusion of a caste as a Scheduled Caste. Sub-clause (1) of Article 341 refers to the power of the President to specify the castes, races, tribes or parts of or groups within these three groups. Specified as such, they shall be deemed to be Scheduled Castes for the purpose of the Constitution in relation to the state. The respondents submitted that the “deeming fiction” creates a homogenous integrated class that cannot be further classified.