This can be discerned by first understanding the change in policy that took place. 100. The Urban Development and Municipal Affairs Department by way of its dated 01.12.2022 decided that the maintenance of the roads and drainage of the E.M. Bypass shall be handed over by the respondent to the KMC. 101. As per the Note #91 dated 30.12.2022, the concerned minister for the first time proposed cancellation of the tender in view of the aforesaid change in scenario as a result of the maintenance of the E.M. Bypass being handed over from the respondent to the KMC. 102. However, it is pertinent to note that in the aforesaid of the Urban Development and Municipal Affairs Department it has been specifically stated that the right to collect revenue from the advertisements as-well as the control of the E.M. Bypass shall continue to remain with the respondent herein. 103. Thus, the respondent at the relevant point of time was not only in control of the two underpasses, but was also empowered to continue collecting revenue from the advertisements displayed at [2024] 7 S.C.R. 599 Subodh Kumar Singh Rathour v. The Chief Executive Officer & Ors. the underpasses. As such the respondent even after the change in policy, remained well within its rights to continue charging license fee in lieu of the advertisement rights by way of the aforesaid tender that was issued to the appellant. 104. When the respondent issued the work stop s to the appellant on 24.01.2023 in view of the handing over of the maintenance of the E.M. Bypass to the KMC, the appellant in response, pointed out that the work stop s were completely misconceived as the respondent continued to retain the custody as-well as the advertisement rights of the concerned underpasses. 105. It was only after the appellant highlighted why the work stop s were misconceived and uncalled for, that the respondent immediately flipped its stance and in its notice of cancellation that was issued just 1-month later, it attributed ‘technical faults’ in the tender floated. 106. At the relevant point of time, there could have been no occasion for the respondent to cancel the tender on the basis of the Urban Development and Municipal Affairs Department’s dated 01.12.2022. We say so because:- (i) First, as per the aforesaid , it was explicitly clarified that the respondent would continue to retain the operation & maintenance as-well as the advertisement rights of the concerned underpasses. (ii) Secondly, only the structural maintenance and restoration of the E.M. Bypass’s carriageway, roads, underground drainage etc. were to be handed over to the KMC. Indisputably, the tender that was issued in favour of the appellant was distinct from the maintenance that was handed over to KMC inasmuch as the scope of work of tender was limited to cleaning the roads, walls, floors etc., maintaining the electric-fixtures and upkeep of the gardens. (iii) Thirdly, despite the stance of the respondent of “change in scenario” due to the handing over of the maintenance, we find that after cancelling the tender and during the pendency of the present appeal, it was the respondent who floated fresh tender for the work of maintenance in respect of the same underpasses and not KMC, thus fortifying our view that the aforesaid change in policy had no bearing on the cancellation of the tender.