It is only an emphatic way of putting the extent to which equality of opportunity could be carried i.e., even up to the point of making reservation. 238. In paragraph 83, he emphatically states that it is a mistake to assume a priori that there can be no classification within a class. He states that if there are intelligible differentia which separates a group within that class from the rest and that differentia has nexus with the object of classification, then there should be no objection to a further classification within the class. 239. Krishna Iyer, J. in paragraph 124 refers to the research conducted by the A.N. Sinha Institute of Social Studies, Patna which would reveal a dual society among harijans, a tiny elite gobbling up the benefits and the darker layers sleeping distances away from the special concessions. He observed that, for them, Articles 46 and 335 remain a ‘noble romance’, the bonanza going to the ‘higher’ harijans. He states in paragraph 136 that Article 16(4) need not be a saving clause but put in due to the over-anxiety of the draftsman to make matters clear beyond possibility of doubt. He observes in paragraph 142 that the genius of Articles 14 to 16 consists not in literal equality but in progressive elimination of pronounced inequality. According to him, to treat sharply dissimilar persons equally is subtle injustice. He held that if Article 16(4) admits of reasonable classification, so does Article 16(1). 240. In K.C. Vasanth Kumar, Y.V. Chandrachud, C.J. observed that the test of economic backwardness ought to be made applicable even to the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes after a period of 15 years from the date of the . Desai, J. in the said observed that even in the case of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes the economic criterion was worth applying by refusing preferred [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1569 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. treatment to those amongst them who have already benefitted by it and improved their position. 241. Fazal Ali, J., after referring to all the s of the Learned Judges in Kesavananda Bharati with regard to interplay between Part III and Part IV of the Constitution, held that Fundamental Rights guaranteed by the Constitution has to be read in harmony with the Directive Principles contained in Part IV. He also reiterates that Article 16(4) is not a proviso to Article 16(1). 242. M.H. Beg, J. concurs with the views expressed by the aforesaid Learned Judges. 243. Further, Krishya Iyer, J. in Akhil Bharatiya Soshit Karamchari Sangh reiterates that Articles 14 to 16 form a code by themselves and embody the distilled essence of the Constitution’s casteless and classless egalitarianism. He states that Article 46, in emphatic terms, obligates the State “to promote with special care the educational and economic interests of the weaker sections of the people, and, in particular, of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes, and shall protect them from social injustice and all forms of exploitation”.