DW-4 stated that he was present at the time of inquest when he saw an empty can of kerosene and matchsticks lying near the body of the deceased; and smell of kerosene was all over. 6. The trial court primarily relied on the testimonies of PW-1, PW-2 and PW-3 to hold that the deceased was harassed soon before her death in connection with demand for a motorcycle and cash and, therefore, in view of the presumption under Section 113-B of the Evidence Act, 1872, the accused were liable to be convicted for dowry death, punishable under Section 304-B IPC, and for cruelty, punishable under Section 498-A IPC. 7. Aggrieved therewith, two separate criminal appeals were filed before the High Court. One appeal was by the husband of the deceased and the other was by the appellants herein. Both appeals were decided by the impugned . In so far as the accused Jitendra Singh is concerned, he has served out the sentence and has not filed any appeal. This appeal is, therefore, by father-in-law and mother-in-law of the deceased. 8. We have heard learned counsel for the parties and have perused the record. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE APPELLANT(S) 9. Learned counsel for the appellants submitted: (i) The autopsy report indicated no mark of injury, other than burn injuries, on the body of the deceased. Body of the deceased was found in the courtyard of the house. Further, the evidence indicated death during daytime. The defense evidence indicated that when smoke was noticed, the witness reached the spot to find a burnt body of the deceased lying in the courtyard and, at that time, none of the accused persons were present. Even prosecution witnesses do not state that at the time of incident the accused were present in the house. All of this would suggest that it is a case of suicide, which could be for multiple reasons. (ii) There is no direct evidence regarding demand of dowry by the appellants. The testimonies of PW-1 and PW-2 do not support 824 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the FIR allegation that on 4.1.2007 appellants had demanded a motorcycle and cash from PW-1 and PW-2. (iii) There is no evidence that motorcycle or cash was demanded in connection with marriage. Hence, a case of dowry death is not made out. (iv) The courts below failed to test the merit of the allegations against the weight of surrounding circumstances and the deposition of prosecution witnesses during cross-examination. Interestingly, PW-1 and PW-2, who had been visiting the matrimonial home of the deceased, admitted during cross-examination that they did not confront the accused in respect of the alleged demand as reported to them by their daughter (i.e., the deceased) because they thought it to be a joke. If it was so, the question of subjecting the deceased to cruelty does not arise. (v) Admittedly, husband of the deceased in connection with service was residing elsewhere. Accused in their statement under Section 313 CrPC stated that the deceased was unhappy and depressed because she was not able to live with her husband as no residential quarter was allotted to him.