acquired land, the Court must consider the ‘market value’ of the land as of the ‘date of publication of the notification under Section 4’. The ‘market value’ is to be assessed with reference to factors such as standing crops and trees, the severance of part of the land, damage to movable or immovable property or earnings, the need to relocate one’s residence or business, and any loss of profits from the land between the publication of the declaration under Section 6 and the Collector’s assumption of possession. 19. This Court has through various judicial precedents, including a three-judge bench decision in Special Land Acquisition Officer v. T. Adinarayan Setty,3 held that the ‘market value’ connotes the price that a willing buyer would pay to a willing seller, taking into account the land’s current conditions and its advantages and potentialities. For this, typically, the best approach is the comparable sales method, under which the bona fide sale exemplars of similar lands are relied upon to ascertain the market value of the land under acquisition. However, to ensure that the valuation is just and proper, this Court has explained that such sale exemplars must satisfy certain criteria, including that: (a) the sale must be a genuine transaction; (b) the sale deed must have been executed around the time of the Section 4 notification; (c) the land must be situated near the acquired land; (d) the nature of the land covered in the sale instance must be similar to the acquired land; and (e) the size of the plot covered by the sale instance should be comparable to the land acquired.4 20. Apart from satisfying these factors, it is also imperative that the sale exemplars reflect the price of the land on the ‘date of publication of the notification under Section 4’. On account of this express condition, there are numerous instances where this Court has laid down that the sale exemplars executed after the Section 4 notification should not ordinarily be relied upon.5 This is grounded in the reasoning that once the acquisition process begins, it can impact the valuation of the land, rendering subsequent sale exemplars to be potentially inaccurate reflections of the true valuation of the acquired land. This 3 [1959] Supp. 1 SCR 404 : AIR 1959 SC 429 4 Shaji Kuriakose v. Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. (2001) 7 SCC 650. 5 General Manager, Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Ltd. v. Rameshbhai Jivanbhai Patel, 2008 (14) SCC 745; Maya Devi v. State of Haryana (2018) 2 SCC 474. 1720 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports principle was cogently addressed by this Court in A. Natesam Pillai v. Tahsildar,6 which held that the commencement of acquisition often leads to an increase in the market values of adjacent lands, thereby discrediting post-notification transactions as reliable indicators of the acquired land’s value. 21. Having been equipped with the factors to be considered while selecting a comparable sale instance to draw an estimate from, it is perhaps suitable to tackle the core issue and ascertain which of the sale exemplars produced before us may be most appropriate to be utilised in this exercise.