7. Smt. Nandkanwarbai, widow of late Madho Lal filed a Civil Suit No. 11 of 1958 seeking a declaration of title and possession over the suit property contending that the property in question was a joint Hindu family property and that the will allegedly executed by late Kanwarlal was illegal. It was further contended in the suit that defendant Mukat Lal was not entitled to any share in the HUF property by virtue of the will. The Civil Court dismissed the said suit vide and decree dated 21st May, 1959 while recognizing the right of Smt. Nandkanwarbai only to the extent of receiving maintenance from the suit property. 8. Smt. Nandkanwarbai, did not challenge the said any further. However, defendant Mukat Lal on attaining majority, preferred an appeal against the dated 21st May, 1959 which was allowed by the learned Senior Civil Judge vide dated 9th February, 1968 and the and decree passed by the civil Court in favour of Smt. Nandkanwarbai to the extent of the right to receive maintenance from the suit property was set aside. 9. Being aggrieved, Smt. Nandkanwarbai preferred a Second Appeal No. 347 of 1968 before the learned Single Judge of Rajasthan High Court. During the pendency of the said second appeal, in the year 1972 Smt. Nandkanwarbai passed away and her legal heir i.e. plaintiff Kailash Chand was taken on record. Learned Single Judge of 304 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Rajasthan High Court, vide dated 20th March, 1973 allowed the second appeal filed by Smt. Nandkanwarbai and restored the civil Court’s to the extent of her right to be maintained from the suit property. Resultantly, the status of defendant Mukat Lal as being the beneficiary of the suit lands as being the legatee of the will made by his father Shri Kanwarlal stood crystallized. 10. The plaintiff Kailash Chand filed Revenue Suit No. 37 of 1979 for partition of the suit property before the Revenue Court claiming that Smt. Nandkanwarbai was entitled to a rightful share in the property by virtue of Section 14(1) of the Succession Act. 11. The present appeal arises from the aforesaid Revenue Suit No. 37 of 1979 seeking partition which culminated in the impugned dated 2nd November, 2017 passed by the learned Division Bench of the Rajasthan High Court. 12. It may be reiterated that the issue regarding title and possession over the suit property stands concluded against Smt. Nandkanwarbai (deceased widow) vide and decree dated 21st May, 1959 passed in Civil Suit No. 11 of 1958. The said Civil Suit was dismissed by the competent Court qua the relief of possession and title while recognizing the right to Smt. Nandkanwarbai only to the extent of receiving maintenance from the estate. Admittedly, Smt. Nandkanwarbai did not challenge the and decree dated 21st May, 1959 and thus, it attained finality to the extent of possession and title. Apropos, there is no dispute qua the fact that Smt. Nandkanwarbai was never in possession of the suit property.