1067 Manish Sisodia v. Directorate of Enforcement petition with liberty to revive his prayer afresh after filing of the final complaint/charge-sheet. 13. Accordingly, after filing of the final complaint/charge-sheet, the appellant has approached this Court by way of the present appeals. This Court, vide dated 16th July 2024 had issued notice. In response thereto, counter affidavit has been filed on behalf of the ED as well as the CBI opposing the present appeals. SUBMISSIONS: 14. We have extensively heard Dr. Abhishek Manu Singhvi, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant and Shri Suryaprakash V. Raju, learned Additional Solicitor General (ASG) appearing on behalf of the respondents. 15. A preliminary objection has been raised on behalf of the learned ASG that the appellant cannot be permitted to file second set of SLPs to challenge the of the High Court dated 21st May 2024 when the earlier SLPs arising out of the same were disposed of. He submitted that the liberty granted by this Court vide dated 4th June 2024 has to be construed as a liberty to apply to the trial court afresh. It is submitted that, only after the appellant approaches the trial court and in the event he does not succeed before the trial court, thereafter he approaches the High Court and in the event he also does not succeed before the High Court, then only he would be entitled to approach this Court. He therefore submitted that the present appeals deserve to be rejected thereby relegating the appellant to approach the trial court afresh. To buttress his submission, Shri Raju relied on the of this Court in the case of Kunhayammed and Others v. State of Kerala and Others.1 16. The said preliminary objection has been opposed by Dr. Singhvi, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant contending that this Court had specifically, vide its first dated 30th October 2023, granted liberty to the appellant to move a fresh application for bail in case the trial does not conclude within next 6-8 months and also in case the trial is protracted and proceeds at 1 [2000] Supp. 1 SCR 538 : (2000) 6 SCC 359 : 2000 INSC 339 1068 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports a snail’s pace in next three months. He submitted that, admittedly, the trial has not been concluded within a period of 6-8 months from the date of the first of this Court. He further submitted that the record would show that the trial was protracted and proceeded at a snail’s pace in the period of three months after the first of this Court was passed. He submitted that the second of this Court clearly reserves the right of the appellant to revive the request afresh after filing of the final complaint/charge-sheet as assured by the learned Solicitor General. Dr. Singhvi therefore prays for rejection of the preliminary objection. 17. On merits, Dr. Singhvi submitted that this Court, vide its first dated 30th October 2023, has given various findings in favour of the appellant.