To demonstrate that the service was obtained for a commercial purpose, the OP relied on two circumstances: (a) the statement in the complainant that there was an ‘understanding between complainant and opposite party to promote chit business’; (b) findings2 of an internal audit conducted by the OP. 1 The complainant had filed 10 cases before the Assistant Registrar of Co-operative Societies i.e., Dispute No.1062/2004-05 to 1071/2004-05, for recovery of adjusted amount, whereunder the Assistant Registrar passed an award and directed the OP to pay the amount to complainant. Against the said OP unsuccessfully challenged the s in appeals before Additional Registrar of Co-operative Societies, Aliaskar Road, Bangalore, in appeal No.33/CAP/2009-10 to No.42/CAP/2009-10. The Additional Registrar directed the opposite party to pay the award amount on the ground that said chit groups did not come under the Chit Fund Act. 2 As per the Internal Audit, the Complainant held 1023 prized chits, and 1043 non-prized chits. The report also mentions various correspondences between the complainant and OP with regards to the increasing disparity between the total liability of the fund, and the paid-up value of the non-prized chits. As per the audit report, the balance liability amounted to Rs. 1.86 crores. It was stated that owing non-payment of outstanding arrears, the foreman in accordance with Section 28 and Section 29 of the Chit Fund Act is bound to remove the defaulted non-prized subscriber to keep the chit running, hence the defaulted non- prized tickets maintained by Complainant were removed, and the paid amounts were adjusted against arrears in the prized chits. [2024] 6 S.C.R. 219 Shriram Chits (India) Private Limited Earlier Known as Shriram Chits (K) Pvt. Ltd v. Raghachand Associates 8. Against the said pleadings available on record, the District Forum proceeded to frame the following issue: I. Whether the Complainant has proved the alleged deficiency in service by the Opposite Party? II. If so, to what relief the Complainant is entitled? 9. There was no specific issue framed on the preliminary question as to whether the complainant fell within the definition of consumer as understood under Section 2 (1) (d) of the Act of 1986. However, the District Forum did address itself, though incorrectly, to the objection of the OP that the complaint was not maintainable. Instead of examining whether the service availed on behalf of the complainant was for a commercial purpose, the District Forum determined whether the complainant fell within the definition of a “person” as defined in Section 2 (1)(m) of the Act. On merits, it found that there was, in fact, ‘deficiency in service’ and ed for refund of the claimed amount with interest of 18% p.a. 10. In appeal, the State Forum has cursorily found that the District Forum was correct in concluding that there was deficiency in service, on merits. Nothing has been said, however, as regards the challenge to the maintainability of the complaint even though a specific ground was taken in the memorandum of appeal towards that end. 11. The NCDRC has agreed with the State Forum and District Forum on the merits of the issue and found no reason to interfere with the ‘well appraised detailed ’ of the District Forum.