The exposition of law on the point, therefore, dates back to almost a quarter and a century back. I. PRECEDENTS CONSIDERING THE EXPLANATION 48. There are a few decisions of this Court where the Explanation to Rule 1 of XLVII, CPC has since been considered. 49. The earliest decision is Shanti Devi v. State of Haryana 29 where the Court rejected the review petition by holding that the contention that the sought to be reviewed was overruled in another case subsequently is no ground for reviewing the said decision. Explanation to XLVII Rule 1 of the Code of Civil Procedure clearly rules out such type of review proceedings. 50. Reference may next be made to the decision in Union of India v. Mohd Nayyar Khalil.30 There, the impugned had followed a three-Judge Bench of this Court. Such was admittedly pending consideration before a Constitution Bench. Taking note of such facts, it was held that: 26 XXXI CWN 822 : AIR 1927 Cal 920 27 LR (1899-1900) 27 IA 197 28 AIR 1933 Madras 485 29 (1999) 5 SCC 703 30 (2000) 9 SCC 252 [2024] 5 S.C.R. 981 Govt. of NCT of Delhi Through Its Secretary, Land and Building Department & Another v. M/s K.L. Rathi Steels Limited and Others “2. *** Even if the question regarding the legality of the said three-Judge Bench decision is pending scrutiny before the Constitution Bench the same is not relevant for deciding the review petition for two obvious reasons — firstly, this was not pointed out to the Bench which decided the civil appeal; and secondly, by the time the impugned was passed the three-Judge Bench had not been upset and even in future if the Constitution Bench takes a contrary view it would be a subsequent event which cannot be a ground for review as is clear from the explanation to 47 Rule 1(2) of the Code of Civil Procedure ***”. (emphasis supplied) The principle, thus, laid down is that a decision being upset in the future would be a subsequent event which could not be a ground to seek review. 51. In Nand Kishore Ahirwar v. Haridas Parsedia,31 a Bench of three Hon’ble Judges, while dismissing the review petitions before it, made pertinent observations reaching out to the very core of the said Explanation. This Court observed that simply because there has been a Constitution Bench decision, passed in the aftermath of the impugned, would be no ground for a review of the said . It also went on to observe that a reference to a Constitution Bench would stand on a still weaker footing (emphasis supplied). 52. The question arising for decision in State of West Bengal v. Kamal Sengupta 32 was whether a tribunal established under section 4 of the Administrative Tribunals Act, 1985 can review its decision on the basis of a subsequent /decision/ rendered by a coordinate or larger Bench or any superior court or on the basis of subsequent event/development. It was contended on behalf of the State that any subsequent decision on an identical or similar point by a coordinate or larger Bench or even change of law cannot be made the basis for recording a finding that the sought to be reviewed suffers from an error apparent on the face of the record.