Heart diseases. 27. High or low blood pressure. ******* 38. Obesity.” 7. Rule 6 of the DMR Rules, 1955 states as follows: “[6] Prohibition of Advertisement of Drugs for Treatment of Disease, etc.– No person shall also take part in the [2024] 8 S.C.R. 411 In Re: Patanjali Ayurved Ltd. Through Its Mangg. Dir., Acharya Balkrishna & Baba Ramdev in The Matter of: Indian Medical Asso. and another v. Union of India and others publication of any advertisement referring to any drug in terms which suggest or are calculated to lead to the use of that drug for the diagnosis, cure, mitigation, treatment or prevention of any disease, dis, or condition specified in the Schedule annexed to these rules. SCHEDULE (See Rule 6) 1. Asthma ***]” E. ADVERTISEMENT PUBLISHED IN THE NEWSPAPER ON 4TH DECEMBER, 2023 8. It is noteworthy that Patanjali had published an advertisement in the daily newspaper on 4th December, 2023 (copy whereof was subsequently filed by the petitioner/IMA under index dated 6th February, 2024), that spoke of “completely curing” lakhs of people of diseases like high blood pressure, sugar, thyroid, arthritis, asthma, etc. Similarly, the advertisement claimed to have “completely cure patient suffering from failure of liver, kidney, heart and brain”. The advertisement as published by Patanjali on 4th December, 2023 with a photograph of Baba Ramdev prominently displayed in it, is extracted below : 412 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 9. In the advertisement, Patanjali also displayed packages of medicines sold by it under the names of “BP GRIT”, “Madhu GRIT” and “Liva Amrit Advance” and declared that they offer permanent solution for curing ailments such as sugar, BP and liver problems. F. TRANSCRIPTION OF THE PRESS CONFERENCE CONDUCTED ON 22nd NOVEMBER, 2023 10. We may also refer to the transcription of the statements made by Baba Ramdev in a Press Conference conducted by Patanjali on 22nd November, 2023, i.e., on the very next day to this Court passing the on 21st November, 2023, recording the undertaking given by learned counsel for Patanjali that there shall be no violation of any law relating to advertising or branding of products manufactured and marketed by Patanjali and that no casual statements claiming medicinal efficacy or against any system of medicine will be released to the media in any form. In the said transcription, Baba Ramdev alluded to the aforesaid passed by this Court and asserted that a group of doctors were making false propaganda claiming that “there is cure for diseases like BP, sugar, thyroid, asthma, arthritis, liver and kidney failure”, that they have “discontinued insulin for more than a crore people”; that “children with type-1 diabetes have been cured” and that “we cure blood pressure, thyroid, type – 1 diabetes, asthma and turn CRP positive to negative”. Referring to the passed by this Court on 21st November, 2023, Acharya Balkrishna made a statement in the very same Press Conference, that “Corona could not be cured by allopathy…….” and that “Coronil has not only protected the family but also followed all protocols and rules”.