The classification of alcohol into potable and non-potable (or industrial alcohol) is oversimplistic. Alcohol (such as ENA or rectified spirit) which is used to prepare potable alcohol is also used to prepare other products of the pharmaceutical industry. An interpretation that ENA or rectified spirit which is used in the preparation of potable liquor is ‘industrial alcohol’ and is thus outside the scope of Entry 8 limits the field covered by the Entry even if ‘intoxicating liquor’ is interpreted to only mean potable liquor. Further, we also see no 2036 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports merit in the classification between the process of making denatured spirit and the product of denatured spirit since we have held that the expression intoxicating liquor includes denatured spirit. vi. The impact of the decision on Item 26 of the First Schedule of IDRA 130. The Law Commission of India in its 158th Report on the amendment of the IDRA, released in 1998 noted that the decision in Synthetics (7J) (supra) created “several practical problems” and that “there is no such thing as industrial alcohol”. The Law Commission recommended that Item 26 of the IDRA which read “Fermentation industries” be substituted to read “Fermentation industries but not including alcohol”. Item 26 was substituted in 2016 to read “Fermentation industries (other than potable alcohol)”.202 While the Law Commission recommended removing alcohol as a whole from the scope of the IDRA, Parliament by the 2016 amendment only removed potable alcohol from the scope of the enactment. The Statement of Objects and Reasons indicates that the amendment to the IDRA was to harmonise the Act with the decision of this Court in Bihar Distillery (supra). The relevant portion of the Statement of Objects and Reasons is reproduced below: “The Supreme Court of India, in the case of Bihar Distillery v. Union of India (AIR 1997 SC 1208), has held that in the interest of proper delineation of the spheres of the Union and the States, the line of demarcation should be drawn at the stage of clearance or removal of the rectified spirit. Where the removal or clearance is for industrial purposes (other than the manufacture of potable liquor), the levy of duties of excise and all other control shall be with the Union and where the removal or clearance is for obtaining or manufacturing potable liquors, the levy of duties of excise and all other control shall be with the States. In the backdrop of the above of the Supreme Court, the Law Commission of India had recommended in its 158th Report that the Heading 26 of the First Schedule to the Act be substituted as “Fermentation Industries but not including Alcohol”. 202 See the Industries (Development and Regulation) Amendment Act 2016. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2037 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons The recommendation of the Law Commission of India was examined in depth by the Government. If the subject “Alcohol” is taken out of the First Schedule to the Act, both industrial alcohol and potable alcohol would come under the purview of the State Government which is not in consonance with the of the Supreme Court.