Thereafter, appeals were preferred before a division bench of the Hon’ble High Court. 30. The Ld. Division Bench rendered two separate judgements which concurred entirely on all points of law raised before it. Briefly stated, it was held that the core principle of the Azeez Basha [supra] was that the minority community had requested the British Government to establish the AMU because they wanted governmental recognition of its degrees. It was held that this recognition of historical fact could not be overcome by “an enforced declaration of substantial identity” as given in section 2(l) and as sought to be done by removing the word “establish” from the long title of the Act. Consequently, Section 5(2)(c) was also struck down for being discriminatory since it privileged the advancement of a particular section over others. It was further held that the Parliament had no competence to enact the 1981 Act because only a minority could create a minority institution, Parliament could not. 31. The decision of the High Court was challenged by the University in a Special Leave Petition before this Court. The Union of India had also challenged the decision of the High Court and had supported the University’s stand. On April 24, 2006, a Division Bench of this Court had directed status quo to be maintained in the proceedings after Counsel for the University undertook not to implement the [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1929 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. 50% reservation policy until final disposal of the case. The question regarding the status of the university was directed to be considered before a larger bench. 32. Thereafter, the Union had sought to withdraw the appeal filed against the judgement of the High Court on the ground that the historical finding of fact in Azeez Basha [supra] could not have been set at naught by an amending act of the Parliament. On February 2, 2019, a bench of three judges of this Court had directed that the question of correctness of the Azeez Basha [supra] decision should be referred to a bench of Seven Judges. The reference was made directly to seven judges because in the Bench’s view, the very same question had been referred before in the case of Anjuman-e-Rahmania and Others v. District Inspector of Schools and Others W.P. (C) 54- 57 of 1981. These writ petitions were heard and disposed of by the Bench in TMA Pai Foundation v. Union of India, (2002) 8 SCC 481 but this question was left unanswered. The issue with regard to the scope of the reference shall be discussed separately in detail. c. suBmIssIons of the partIes C.1. Appellants questioning the correctness of Azeez Basha [supra] 33. It was submitted by Dr. Rajeev Dhawan, learned Senior Counsel, appearing for the Aligarh Muslim University, that the dated 26.11.1981 passed by this Court in the case of Anjuman-e- Rahmaniya v. District Inspector of Schools, W.P. (C) No. No. 54- 57 of 1981 and the reference dated 12.02.2019 in the present batch of petitions creates several points of reference for this bench to adjudicate upon, which include the correctness of in Azeez Basha [supra], impact of Prof. Yashpal v. State of Chhattisgarh, (2005) 5 SCC 420, and those relating to National Commission for Minority Educational Institutions Act, 2004 (‘NCMEI Act’).