The control unit being agnostic to any political party or candidate, only recognises the push button on the ballot unit. It is programmed to compute the number of times all and a particular button/key has been pressed. 30. About 10 to 15 days prior to the date of polling, the symbol loading process is undertaken by using the symbol loading units. The symbols are loaded in the flash memory of the VVPATs in the form of a bitmap file, comprising the symbol of the political party/candidate, serial number and name of the candidate. A laptop/PC with the symbol loading application is used to create a bitmap file comprising the serial number, the candidate name and the symbol. This file is loaded on 434 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports VVPAT units by using the symbol loading units. Authorised engineers of the manufacturers and the District Election Officer are involved in the symbol loading process. The whole process takes place in the presence of the candidates or their representatives and a monitor/ TV screen displays the symbol loading process. 31. It is at this stage that the specific button/key on the ballot unit is allocated to each candidate. The sequence/location of button/key allocated to a candidate of a political party is done in alphabetical on the basis of the name of the candidate, first for the National and State recognised political parties, followed by other State registered parties, and then for independent candidates. Thus, the sequence/ location of the button/key on the ballot unit and the consequent allotment for the purposes of the VVPAT varies from constituency to constituency. For example, candidate or political party ‘A’ may be allocated button ‘1’ in one parliamentary constituency, whereas button ‘1’ may be allocated to political party ‘B’ in another constituency. 32. There are 16 buttons/keys on each ballot unit. In case there are more than 15 candidates (one button is for NOTA), more than one ballot units are attached to the control unit. A total of 24 ballot units can be connected to a control unit to make a single EVM set. Therefore, a maximum of 384 candidates (including NOTA) can be catered by the EVM. 33. The advantages of the EVM-VVPAT mechanism are noted below: ● It runs on battery/power-packs and does not require any external power supply. ● Voting is done by pressing a button thereby negating a scenario of invalid vote akin to an invalid paper ballot. ● It does not permit more than 4 votes per minute, thereby deterring and disincentivising booth capturing. ● After the pressing of ‘CLOSE’ button on the control unit, there is no possibility of voting. ● It ensures quick, error-free and mischief-free counting of votes. ● Voter is instantly able to verify the recording of their vote through the beep sound. Further, the VVPAT slip helps verify that the vote casted is recorded correctly. [2024] 5 S.C.R. 435 Association For Democratic Reforms v. Election Commission of India And Another ● By pressing the ‘TOTAL’ button on the control unit at any time, the total number of votes polled up to the time of pressing the button is displayed, without indicating the candidate-wise result of votes.