The argument is misconceived. 42. This does not seek to determine or restrict the “powers, privileges, and immunities” of the legislature as defined in the Constitution. Rather, this has a limited remit which is to 26 [2021] 14 SCR 611 : (2022) 3 SCC 529 [2024] 3 S.C.R. 499 Sita Soren v. Union of India adjudicate on the correct interpretation of Article 105 and Article 194 of the Constitution. Therefore, this Court is adjudicating upon the interpretation of the Constitution as it stands, and not on the question of whether “full play” should be given to the privileges. 43. In a separate but concurring opinion in Mark Graves v. People of the State of New York27 while overruling two previous decisions of the United States Supreme Court on a question of constitutional importance, Frankfurter, J pithily observed: “Judicial exegesis is unavoidable with reference to an act like our Constitution, drawn in many particulars with purposed vagueness so as to leave room for the unfolding future. But the ultimate touchstone of constitutionality is the Constitution itself and not what we have said about it.” (emphasis supplied) 44. The above formulation holds true for the Constitution of India as well, which is a transformative document that raises delicate issues of constitutional interpretation. Cognizant of the consequences of the majority , we endeavour to stay true to what the “Constitution itself” fathomed as the remit of Articles 105(2) and 194(2) even if it may be at the cost of moving away from “what we have said about it” in PV Narasimha Rao (supra). We believe that we must not perpetuate a mistaken interpretation of the Constitution, merely because of rigid allegiance to a previous opinion of five judges of this Court. 45. Having adverted to the background, submissions and preliminary issues, we turn to the subject which arises for consideration. E. History of parliamentary privilege in India 46. In a deliberative democracy, the aspirations of the people are met by discourse in democratic institutions. The foremost among these institutions are Parliament and the State Legislatures. The object of the Constitution to give life and meaning to the aspirations of the people is carried out by its representatives through legislative business, deliberations, and dialogue. Parliament is called the “grand inquest 27 306 US 466 (1939) 500 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of the nation.” Not only can the actions and legislative priorities of the government of the day be scrutinised and criticised to hold it accountable, but Parliament also acts as a forum for ventilating the grievances of individuals, civil society, and public stakeholders. When the space for deliberation in the legislature shrinks, people resort to conversations and democratic actions outside the legislature. This privilege of the citizens to scrutinise the proceedings in Parliament is a concomitant right of a deliberative democracy which is a basic feature of the Constitution. Our Constitution intended to create institutions where deliberations, views and counterviews could be expressed freely to facilitate a democratic and peaceful social transformation.