43.4. The Section applies whether a person is a plaintiff or a defendant in a suit. 43.5. The sum spoken of may already be paid or be payable in future. 43.6. The expression “whether or not actual damage or loss is proved to have been caused thereby” means that where it is possible to prove actual damage or loss, such proof is not dispensed with. It is only in cases where damage or loss is difficult or impossible to prove that the liquidated amount named in the contract, if a genuine pre-estimate of damage or loss, can be awarded. 43.7. Section 74 will apply to cases of forfeiture of earnest money under a contract. Where, however, forfeiture takes place under the terms and conditions of a public auction before agreement is reached, Section 74 would have no application.” (Emphasis supplied) 91. Since, the forfeiture under Rule 9(5) of the SARFAESI Rules is also taking place pursuant to the terms & conditions of a public auction, we need not dwell any further on the decision of Kailash Nath (supra) and leave it at that. Suffice to say, in view of the above discussion, Section(s) 73 and 74 of the 1872 Act will have no application whatsoever, when it comes to forfeiture of the earnest-money deposit under Rule 9 sub-rule (5) of the SARFAESI Rules. 78 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports c. Law on the principle of ‘Reading-Down’ a provision: 92. We must deal with yet one another aspect that weighed with the High Court while passing the Impugned . In the Impugned , the High Court also took the view that Rule 9(5) of the SARFAESI Rules must be read down so as to yield to the underlying principle recognized in Section(s) 73 & 74 of the 1872 Act. This reading down of the relevant rules in the opinion of the High Court was necessary, as otherwise irrespective of whether the default is of the entire balance amount or only one rupee, the same harsh consequence of forfeiture would ensue in both the cases. The relevant observations are reproduced below: - “12. Rule 9(5) of the said Rules of 2002 has to be seen as an enabling provision that permits forfeiture in principle. However, such Rule cannot be conferred an exalted status to override the underlying ethos of Section 73 of the Contract Act. In other words, Rule 9(5) has to yield to the principle recognised in Section 73 of the Contract Act or it must be read down accordingly. Thus, notwithstanding the wide words used in Rule 9(5) of the said Rules, a secured creditor may not forfeit any more than the loss or damage suffered by such creditor as a consequence of the failure on the part of a bidder to make payment of the consideration or the balance consideration in terms of the bid. It is only if such principle as embodied in Section 73 of the Contract Act, is read into Rule 9 (5) of the said Rules, would there be an appropriate answer to the conundrum as to whether a colossal default of the entirety of the consideration or the mere default of one rupee out of the consideration would result in the identical consequence of forfeiture as indicated in the provision.” (Emphasis supplied) 93.