She would submit that the oral evidence of PW-4 and PW-5 has been well appreciated and the Courts below have rightly held the appellant guilty of the alleged offence. ANALYSIS: 9. Having heard the learned counsel appearing for the parties and having gone through the materials on record, the only question that falls for our consideration is whether the High Court committed any error in passing the impugned ? 10. We have looked into the evidence of PW-4 i.e., the brother of the deceased and also the evidence of PW-5 i.e., the father of the deceased. Both these witnesses have only stated that after the marriage, there was a demand of some money by the convict, as he wanted to start a ration shop. It appears from the evidence of both these witnesses that on account of such demand, the deceased used to remain tense. 11. What ultimately led the deceased to take such a drastic step of committing suicide is not clear. To put it in other words, the plain reading of the oral evidence of both these witnesses does not disclose any form of incessant cruelty or harassment on the part of the husband which would in ordinary circumstances drag the wife to commit suicide as if she was left with no other alternative. Mere demand of money from the wife or her parents for running a business without anything more would not constitute cruelty or harassment. 838 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 12. Section 306 of the IPC reads as under :- “306. Abetment of suicide.─If any person commits suicide, whoever abets the commission of such suicide, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine.” 13. Thus, the basic ingredients to constitute an offence under Section 306 of the IPC are suicidal death and abetment thereof. Abetment of a thing is defined under Section 107 IPC as under:- “107. Abetment of a thing.─A person abets the doing of a thing, who─ First.─Instigates any person to do that thing; or Secondly.─Engages with one or more other person or persons in any conspiracy for the doing of that thing, if an act or illegal omission takes place in pursuance of that conspiracy, and in to the doing of that thing; or Thirdly.─Intentionally aids, by any act or illegal omission, the doing of that thing. Explanation 1.─ A person who by wilful misrepresentation, or by wilful concealment of a material fact which he is bound to disclose, voluntarily causes or procures, or attempts to cause or procure, a thing to be done, is said to instigate the doing of that thing. Explanation 2.─ Whoever, either prior to or at the time of the commission of an act, does anything in to facilitate the commission of that act, and thereby facilitate the commission thereof, is said to aid the doing of that act.” 14. This Court in Geo Varghese v. State of Rajasthan and another, (2021) 19 SCC 144, has considered the provisions of Section 306 IPC along with the definition of abetment under Section 107 IPC observed as under:- “14.