If the institution is not held to have been established by a minority, if by some reason, persons of one community have manned the positions in the administration in an institution, the same would not ascribe character to the institution. For example, if a secular institution was established by a group of persons [which were not predominantly of the minority community], if for some reasons, the Principal/Director of the institution has been from one minority community, the said occurrence could not be said to be enough to declare the institution to be a minority institution. The de-facto position of the AMU, with regard to the electors in the ‘Court’, the ‘Court’ or the Vice-Chancellors, would therefore not be the deciding factor for the purpose of the Article 30 question. 249. Apart from the above, it was also asserted that the AMU has, over the years, provided the minorities a haven to gain knowledge in the country, and declaration as a non-minority institution, would be highly detrimental to the same. The said argument, apart from being constricted in approach, is evidently contradictory. 250. The AMU, from the time of its establishment, has never had any sort reservations on the basis of religion all the way up till 2005, which was the first time the said exercise was sought to be carried out. Further, the AMU, after the declaration in Azeez Basha [supra], at least till 1981 and arguably even thereafter, was always considered to be a non-minority institution. The contention that the AMU serves the interests of the minority community and denial of the protection under Article 30 would jeopardise the same, ignores the fact that the AMU, without being recognized as a minority institution or implementing religion-based reservations for an entire century, has served such a purpose. Therefore, asserting minority status and advocating for religious reservations based on the university’s historical contributions to the minority community, appears to be self-contradictory. 251. At this juncture it is also important to deal with another submission to the effect that ‘neutral’ institutions or non-minority institutions would 2028 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports in the natural course of things be-‘majoritarian’. It was asserted that since such neutral institutions tend to be driven by the assumptions, leanings, and priorities of the majoritarian groups/cultures, Article 30 contemplates constitutionally protecting certain educational spaces from such ‘majoritarianism-by-default’, guarding their minority character and priorities. 252. The said assertion completely misconstrues the purpose of Article 30 and the nature of non-minority or neutral institutions in the country. The purpose of Article 30 is not to create ‘minority only’ ghettos rather provide positive rights to the minorities to establish educational institutions of their choice and kind. Article 30, as a feature of the Constitution, provides important rights which function within the larger penumbra of fundamental rights. There is substantial interplay, intermixing and balancing of rights inter se within the fundamental rights. 253. The Constitution, specifically under the fundamental rights chapter, provides for other rights such as Article 14 [right against arbitrariness], Article 15 [right to equality], Article 16 [right to equality in matters of public employment], Article 19 [fundamental freedoms], Article 21 [right to life and liberty and dignity], Article 21A [right to education], Article 25 [freedom of religion], Article 26 [freedom of religious institutions], etc, all of which contain shades of protection, equality and freedoms, available to minorities as well.