If no such institutions are available in India, recommend setting up an independent testing laboratory/institution. G. The Expert Committee would be free to review reports or studies authored by national and international scientists if deemed necessary. The petitioners opined that they would like to formally propose three Expert Reports from Prof. David Andow, Prof. Jack Heinemann and Dr. Doug Gurian Sherman to be a formal part of the Committee’s deliberations. The MoEF may similarly nominate which experts they choose in this exercise.” 10.2 This Court directed the TEC to hear the Government, petitioners and any other intervenor, who, in the opinion of the TEC, could assist the cause of expeditious and accurate finalization of its report. A direction was also given to the TEC to submit an interim report on the following issue: [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1979 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. “Whether there should or should not be any ban, partial or otherwise, on conducting open field tests of GMOs? In the event open field trials are permitted, what protocol should be followed and conditions, if any, that may be imposed by the Court for implementation of open field trials.” 10.3 Thereafter, an was passed by this Court on 09.11.2012 recording the filing of an interim report dated 07.12.2012 and the objections filed to the said Report by the Union of India and others. Six weeks’ time was granted to the TEC to finalise and submit its final report. In the meantime, Dr. R.S. Paroda was appointed as a sixth member to the TEC in place of Prof. V.L. Chopra by dated 09.11.2012. The TEC submitted its final report dated 30.06.2013. This included two reports, one, by the majority of five members of the TEC, and a separate note by Dr. R.S. Paroda. Final Report of TEC: 10.4 The Final Report of TEC is divided into following two topics: “I. Background and Context of the TEC’s Recommendations in the Interim Report; and II. Agricultural Policy Considerations in Relation to Knowledge and Practices: 9 Biotechnology and Agriculture 9 Usage of GM Crops 9 International Agreements and Instruments for Food Safety, Conservation and Regulation 9 The Indian GMO Regulatory Structure 9 Discussion of Recommendation of the Interim Report (IR) in the Context of the Terms of Reference for the TEC 9 Deliberations of the TEC Following Submission of the Interim Report 9 Issues that were discussed in the course of deliberations by the TEC 1980 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 9 Examination/Study of the Safety Dossiers 9 Molecular data 9 Health Safety Data 9 Examples of differences 9 Environmental Risk Assessments 9 Summary 9 Recommendations 10.5 The recommendations contained in the majority report are as follows: “Recommendations Based on the deliberations of the TEC and particularly the examination/study of the safety dossiers, it is apparent that there are major gaps in the regulatory system. These need to be addressed before issues related to tests can be meaningfully considered, till such time it would not be advisable to conduct more field trials: 1.