To put it differently, in ordinary circumstances, this Court would be loathe to interfere with an passed by the court below granting bail but if such an is found to be illegal or perverse or premised on material that is irrelevant, then such an is susceptible to scrutiny and interference by the appellate court.” CONSIDERATIONS FOR SETTING ASIDE BAIL S 28. The considerations that weigh with the appellate Court for setting aside the bail on an application being moved by the aggrieved party include any supervening circumstances that may have occurred after granting relief to the accused, the conduct of the accused while on bail, any attempt on the part of the accused to procrastinate, resulting in delaying the trial, any instance of threats being extended to the witnesses while on bail, any attempt on the part of the accused to tamper with the evidence in any manner. We may add that this list is only illustrative and not exhaustive. However, the court must be cautious that at the stage of granting bail, only a prima facie case needs to be examined and detailed reasons relating to the merits of the case that may cause prejudice to the accused, ought to be avoided. Suffice it is to state that the bail should reveal the factors that have been considered by the Court for granting relief to the accused. 29. In Jagjeet Singh (supra), a three-Judges bench of this Court, has observed that the power to grant bail under Section 439 Cr.P.C is of wide amplitude and the High Court or a Sessions Court, as the case may be, is bestowed with considerable discretion while deciding an [2024] 5 S.C.R. 593 Ajwar v. Waseem and Another application for bail. But this discretion is not unfettered. The passed must reflect due application of judicial mind following well established principles of law. In ordinary course, courts would be slow to interfere with the where bail has been granted by the courts below. But if it is found that such an is illegal or perverse or based upon utterly irrelevant material, the appellate Court would be well within its power to set aside and cancel the bail. (Also refer: Puran v. Ram Bilas and Another44; Narendra K. Amin (Dr.) v. State of Gujarat and Another45) DISCUSSION 30. Keeping in mind the aforesaid parameters, we may now proceed to examine the pleas taken by the parties so as to decide as to whether the impugned s can be sustained or not. On a careful consideration of the entire records, we are inclined to agree with submission made by learned counsel for the appellant-complainant that the impugned s are unjustified and suffer from grave infirmity. The primary factor that has swayed the learned Single Judge of the High Court in granting bail to the accused Waseem is that even though the prosecution version is that 11 accused persons had assaulted the appellant-complainant and members of his family on indiscriminate firing taking place, only three persons had sustained injuries and two had expired on the side of the appellant-complainant.