A public law element is generally understood to mean the reach of an obligation to a large section of the public or the obligation affecting the lives and livelihood of the general public by its very nature. M.P. Power sounded a cautionary note in such cases where the State cites monetary gains or losses as reason for termination of a contract. This is also not’ the case at hand since the reasons given for cancellation were on a wholly different plane.” 21. The above reasons persuade this Court to hold that the remedy available to the petitioner is in the realm of private law and not under Article· 226 of the Constitution which contemplates certain tests including that the dispute must [2024] 7 S.C.R. 549 Subodh Kumar Singh Rathour v. The Chief Executive Officer & Ors. have a public law element. The complaint of the petitioner is essentially for the specific performance of the contractual obligation of the respondent KMDA. Doubtless, the petitioner can avail of appropriate civil remedies for redress which would include damages for breach of the contractual terms. (Emphasis supplied) 16. Aggrieved with the aforesaid, the appellant went in appeal before a Division Bench of the High Court by way of M.A.T. No. 744 of 2023, wherein the appeal court finding no fault in the decision of the learned Single Judge, dismissed the appeal and thereby affirmed the of the learned Single Judge referred to above. 17. In view of the aforesaid, the appellant is here before this Court with the present appeal. C. DEVELOPMENTS THAT OCCURRED DURING THE PENDENCY OF THE PRESENT APPEAL. 18. During the pendency of the present appeal, the appellant herein preferred a RTI seeking further information on the respondent’s internal note-file pertaining to the cancellation of the subject tender. 19. The Public Information Officer, KMDA vide its reply dated 18.08.2023 provided the internal file-notings of the respondent on the aforesaid tender. In the internal file-notings of the respondent, the following entries / notes are relevant: - a) As per Note #91 dated 30.12.2022, the respondent in view of the maintenance of the concerned underpasses being handed over to KMC, was contemplating the possibility of cancelling the tender for work. The relevant noting reads as under: - “Note # 91 Recently maintenance of EM Bye pass has been handed over to KMC. Thus, in this changed scenario we may cancel the work . 03/01/2023 11:51 AM FIRHAD HAKIM CHRMN (KMDA)” 550 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports b) As per Note #95 dated 10.01.2023, the respondent instructed that the tender be cancelled in view of the maintenance of the concerned underpasses being handed over to KMC. However, since the respondent was in doubt as regards the legality & validity of such decision, it opined that the opinion of the Legal Department may be sought first before any action of cancellation is taken. However, as an interim measure, it decided to issue a notice to stop all work in respect of the tender.