He, accordingly, dismissed the case with costs of ₹5,00,000/-. 17. Aggrieved by the dismissal of their petition, the appellants approached the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal, Chennai Bench (NCLAT), by way of Company Appeal (AT) (CH) No. 44 of 2021. They also filed I.A. No. 548 of 2021 therein for interim relief pending its disposal. However, the NCLAT dismissed their appeal and I.A. by dated 10.04.2023. Speaking for the Bench, the Member (Technical) referred to the facts of the case; the contentions of the parties; the points for consideration set out by the NCLT and its findings thereon. Thereafter, the relevant provisions of the Act of 2013 were extracted at length and again, reference was made to the contentions of both sides. Having done so, the NCLAT curiously concluded that L. Ramesh had remitted through his ‘known persons’ the sum of ₹14,66,39,400/- into the bank account of respondent No. 2. The NCLAT then strangely observed as follows: ‘First of all, the money has not been transferred by the ‘Appellants’ in favour of the ‘Respondents’. Secondly, as admitted in the averments as well as recorded clearly in the ‘impugned ’ that, Mr. Lingamaneni Ramesh gave Rs. 14,67,41,557/- and took back Rs. 9 Crores from the ‘Respondents’ as such prima-facie this does not seem to be a clear transaction of payment of money towards acquisition of shares and consequently allotment of shares in favour of the ‘Appellants’ is also not established.’ 246 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 18. Significantly, the three persons named by the NCLAT in the table in the very same paragraph as the ‘known persons’ who paid the monies are none other than appellant Nos. 2 and 3 and Ms. Vahini Surya Chalasani, the joint-account holder of appellant No. 1. Therefore, the conclusion of the NCLAT that the money was not transferred by the appellants was factually incorrect. Further, the story put forth by respondent No. 2 as to his friend, L. Ramesh, playing a role in the transaction was taken to be the biblical truth by the NCLAT though it was very much in dispute and required to be proved, even as per the interim passed by NCLT. As regards the issue of limitation, the NCLAT simply went by the date of purchase of the shares and the date of the institution of the Company Petition and concluded that the same was barred by limitation, without reference to the issue highlighted by the NCLT in its initial interim that limitation, being a mixed question of law in fact, required further examination as to when the clock would start ticking. The further finding of the NCLAT that the appellants had not furnished any documentary proof of their claims was equally bereft of foundation as material had been produced by them, which was duly taken note of in the NCLT’s interim , which led it to the opinion that further inquiry was needed on those aspects. To further compound the patent lack of application of mind on its part, the NCLAT observed that the appellants failed to produce their original share certificates pursuant to the NCLT’s dated 18.02.2021, overlooking the fact that the original share certificates and other documents were, in fact, filed by the appellants along with their rejoinder dated 22.03.2021.