As can be seen from above, the reliance on competitive exams or written tests as the sole determinant of merit is increasingly being frowned upon. To borrow the phrase from philosopher Michael Sandel’s book, “The Tyranny of Merit”, successful candidates often feel a sense of “meritocratic hubris”32, overlooking how factors such as socio-economic background, caste, gender, and other structural inequalities can shape opportunities and outcomes. 65. The written test cannot possibly capture the full spectrum of the individual’s abilities and potential. An interview can also provide a 31 [2017] 1 SCR 631 : (2019) 16 SCC 129 32 Michael J Sandel, The Tyranny of Merit: What’s become of the Common Good? (Allen Lane, 2020) [2024] 6 S.C.R. 575 Abhimeet Sinha & Ors. v. High Court of Judicature at Patna & Ors. medium for marginalized candidates to showcase their talents in ways which a written test may not possibly allow. However, a caveat may be necessary here that candidates hailing from English-speaking urban environments might possess linguistic fluency and familiarity with cultural norms typically associated with interviews and therefore are likely to navigate the viva voce segment with relative ease. Conversely, candidates from marginalized communities may face challenges due to their lack of exposure to urban settings. This is further exacerbated by conscious and unconscious bias on grounds of gender, religion, caste etc. But can we ignore the intrinsic ability of the members of the interview panel constituted by the High Court judges to separate the grain from the chaff? This Court would like to believe that the members of the interview board can provide a level-playing field during the interview process for those who come from a disadvantaged background, to assess the true merit and potential of the interviewees. The solution lies in the interviewing members being aware and sensitive to alleviate bias in the process of Interview. However, the apprehension of bias cannot be the sole ground to strike down a Rule. 66. As is seen from the precedents, only the overriding weightage to the viva-voce segment has been frowned upon by this Court but the prescription of reasonable qualifying cut-off marks33 is not considered discriminatory. In any case, administrative law remedies are always available to secure relief in cases where abuse of power is seen. When the minimum cut-off of 20% for the Bihar recruitment and 40% for the Gujarat recruitment are taken into account, those cannot be considered to provide a high threshold if one keeps in mind that the recruitment is for selection of judicial officers. In the context, the object of viva voce set out in Rule 8(5) of Gujarat Rules, 2005 deserves attention and is extracted: “(5) the object of the Viva-Voce Test (interview) is to assess the suitability of the candidate for the cadre by judging the mental alertness, knowledge of law, clear and logical exposition, balance of , skills, attitude, ethics, power of assimilation, power of communication, character and intellectual depth and the like, of the candidate.” 33 Manish Kumar Shahi v State of Bihar (2010) 12 SCC 576 576 [2024] 6 S.C.R.