Digital Supreme Court Reports b) Sethi Auto Service Station (supra) “14. It is trite to state that notings in a departmental file do not have the sanction of law to be an effective . A noting by an officer is an expression of his viewpoint on the subject. It is no more than an opinion by an officer for internal use and consideration of the other officials of the department and for the benefit of the final decision-making authority. Needless to add that internal notings are not meant for outside exposure. Notings in the file culminate into an executable , affecting the rights of the parties, only when it reaches the final decision-making authority in the department, gets his approval and the final is communicated to the person concerned.” [Emphasis supplied] “22. From the afore-extracted notings of the Commissioner and the of the Vice Chairman, it is manifest that although there were several notings which recommended consideration of the appellants’ case for relocation but finally no official communication was addressed to or received by the appellants accepting their claim. After the recommendation of the Technical Committee, the entire matter was kept pending; in the meanwhile, a new policy was formulated and the matter was considered afresh later in the year 2004, when the proposal was rejected by the Vice Chairman, the final decision making authority in the hierarchy. It is, thus, plain that though the proposals had the recommendations of State Level Co-ordinator (oil industry) and the Technical Committee but these did not ultimately fructify into an or decision of the DDA, conferring any legal rights upon the appellants. Mere favourable recommendations at some level of the decision making process, in our view, are of no consequence and shall not bind the DDA. We are, therefore, in complete agreement with the High Court that the notings in the file did not confer any right upon the appellants, as long as they remained as such. We do not find any infirmity in the approach adopted by the learned Single Judge and affirmed by the Division Bench, warranting interference.” [Emphasis supplied] [2024] 1 S.C.R. 471 Delhi Development Authority v. Hello Home Education Society c) Mahadeo (supra), “14. It is well settled that inter-departmental communications are in the process of consideration for appropriate decision and cannot be relied upon as a basis to claim any right. This Court examined the said question in a reported as 3Omkar Sinha v. Sahadat Khan3 . Reliance was placed on Bachhittar Singh v. State of Punjab4 to hold that merely writing something on the file does not amount to an . Before something amounts to an of the State Government, two things are necessary. First, the has to be expressed in the name of the Governor as required by clause (1) of Article 166 and second, it has to be communicated. As already indicated, no formal modifying the decision of the Revenue Secretary was ever made. Until such an is drawn up, the State Government cannot, in our opinion, be regarded as bound by what was stated in the file.