in that financial year. (2) The report under sub-section Provided that nothing contained (1) shall be in such form as in this subsection shall apply may be prescribed. to the contributions received by way of an electoral bond. (3) The report for a financial Explanation — For the purposes of year under subsection (1) this subsection, “electoral bond” shall be submitted by the means a bond referred to in the treasurer of a political party or Explanation to sub-section (3) of any other person authorized section 31 of the Reserve Bank by the political party in this of India Act, 1934. behalf before the due date for furnishing a return of income (2) The report under sub-section of that financial year under (1) shall be in such form as section 139 of the Income-tax may be prescribed. Act, 1961 (43 of 1961), to the Election Commission. [2024] 2 S.C.R. 560 Digital Supreme Court Reports Where the treasurer of any (3) The report for a financial political party or any other year under subsection person authorized by the (1) shall be submitted by political party in this behalf the treasurer of a political fails to submit a report party or any other person under sub-section (3) then, authorized by the political notwithstanding anything party in this behalf before contained in the Income-tax the due date for furnishing Act, 1961 (43 of 1961), such a return of income of that political party shall not be financial year under section entitled to any tax relief under 139 of the Income-tax Act, that Act. 1961 (43 of 1961), to the Election Commission. Where the treasurer of any political party or any other person authorized by the political party in this behalf fails to submit a report under sub-section (3) then, notwithstanding anything contained in the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961), such political party shall not be entitled to any tax relief under that Act. Section 182, Companies Act 2013 Prior to Amendment by the Finance Upon Amendment by Section 154 Act, 2017 of the Finance Act, 2017 182.Prohibitions and restrictions 182.Prohibitions and restrictions regarding political contributions. regarding political contributions. 1) Notwithstanding anything 1) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other provision contained in any other provision of this Act, a company, other of this Act, a company, other than a Government company than a Government company and a company which has and a company which has been in existence for less been in existence for less than three financial years, than three financial years, may contribute any amount may contribute any amount directly or indirectly to any directly or indirectly to any political party: political party: [2024] 2 S.C.R. 561 Association for Democratic Reforms & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. Provided that the amount referred (First proviso omitted) to in subsection (1) or, as the case Provided that no such contribution may be, the aggregate of the amount shall be made by a company unless which may be so contributed by the a resolution authorising the making company in any financial year shall of such contribution is passed at a not exceed seven and a half per meeting of the Board of Directors cent of its average net profits during and such resolution shall, subject to the three immediately preceding the other provisions of this section, financial years: be deemed to be justification in law Provided further that no such for the making of the contribution contribution shall be made by authorised by it.