In fact, Manish Sisodia (II) (Supra) reiterated the holding in Manish Sisodia (I) Vs. Directorate of Enforcement ( dated 30.10.2023 in Criminal Appeal No. 3352 of 2023) where it was held as under:- “28. Detention or jail before being pronounced guilty of an offence should not become punishment without trial. If the trial gets protracted despite assurances of the prosecution, and it is clear that case will not be decided within a foreseeable time, the prayer for bail may be meritorious. While the prosecution may pertain to an economic offence, yet it may not be proper to equate these cases with those punishable with death, imprisonment for life, ten years or more like offences under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985, murder, cases of rape, dacoity, kidnaping for ransom, mass violence, etc. Neither is this a case where 100/1000s of depositors have been defrauded. The allegations have to be established and proven. The right to bail in cases of delay, coupled with incarceration for a long period, depending on the nature of the allegations, should be read into Section 439 of the Code and Section 45 of the PML Act. The reason is that the constitutional mandate is the higher law, and it is the basic right of the person charged of an offence and not convicted, that he be ensured and given a speedy trial. When the trial is not proceeding for reasons not attributable to the accused, the court, unless there are good reasons, may well be guided to exercise 964 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the power to grant bail. This would be truer where the trial would take years.” It is in this background that Section 45 of PMLA needs to be understood and applied. Article 21 being a higher constitutional right, statutory provisions should align themselves to the said higher constitutional edict. Scope of Inquiry under Section 45 of PMLA 13. Coming back to the scope of inquiry under Section 45, Vijay Madanlal Choudhary (Supra), while reiterating and agreeing with the holding in Ranjitsing Brahmajeetsing Sharma vs. State of Maharashtra and Another reported in (2005) 5 SCC 294, held that the Court while dealing with the application for grant of bail in PMLA need not delve deep into the merits of the case and only a view of the Court based on the available material available on record is required. It held that the Court is only required to place its view based on probability on the basis of reasonable material collected during investigation. The words used in Section 45 are “reasonable grounds for believing” which means that the Court has to see only if there is a genuine case against the accused and the prosecution is not required to prove the charge beyond reasonable doubt. We deem it fit to extract the relevant portion (Para 131) from Vijay Madanlal Choudhary (supra): “131. It is important to note that the twin conditions provided under section 45 of the 2002 Act, though restrict the right of the accused to grant of bail, but it cannot be said that the conditions provided under section 45 impose absolute restraint on the grant of bail.