Digital Supreme Court Reports b. access to all modes of transport that conform to the design standards, including retrofitting old modes of transport, wherever technically feasible and safe for PWDs, economically viable and without entailing major structural changes in design; and c. accessible roads to address mobility necessary for persons with disabilities. Sub-section (2) mandates that the appropriate government develop schemes and programmes to promote the personal mobility of PWDs at an affordable cost to provide for incentives and concessions, retrofitting of vehicles, and personal mobility assistance. 55. Sections 42 and 43 pertain to “information and communication technology” and “consumer goods”, respectively. Section 42 mandates that the appropriate government take measures to ensure that: a. all contents available in audio, print and electronic media are in accessible format; b. PWDs have access to electronic media by providing audio description, sign language interpretation and close captioning; c. electronic goods and equipment which are meant for everyday use are available in universal design. Section 43 stipulates that the appropriate government shall take measures to promote the development, production, and distribution of universally designed consumer products and accessories for general use of PWDs. 56. Section 44 deals with the mandatory observance of the accessibility rules framed by the Central Government under Section 40 and the consequence of non-compliance. Sub-section (1) states that no establishment shall be granted permission to build any structure if the building plan does not adhere to the rules formulated by the Central Government under Section 40. Sub-section (2) stipulates that no establishment shall be issued a certificate of completion or allowed to take occupation of a building unless it has adhered to the rules formulated by the Central Government. Therefore, at both stages – when the building plan is made and at the stage of completion – mandatory adherence to the accessibility rules is envisaged by the Act. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1001 Rajive Raturi v. Union of India & Ors. 57. While Section 44 deals with mandatory compliance with the accessibility rules for all new buildings, Section 45 deals with the “retrofitting” of existing public buildings to comply with the accessibility rules within a prescribed time period, subject to extensions on a case-by-case basis. Section 45 stipulates that all existing public buildings shall be made accessible in accordance with the rules formulated by the Central Government within a period not exceeding five years from the date of notification of such rules. The proviso to sub-section (1) allows the Central Government to grant an extension of time to the States on a case-to-case basis for adherence with this provision depending on their state of preparedness and other related parameters. Sub-section (2) states that the appropriate government and the local authorities shall formulate and publish an action plan based on prioritisation, for providing accessibility in all their buildings and spaces providing essential services such as all primary health centres, civil hospitals, schools, railway stations and bus stops. 58. Section 46 pertains to the time limit for compliance with the accessibility rules by service providers.