List on 5th April, 2024.” An affidavit dated 24th March 2024 was filed by the 1st and 2nd respondents in compliance with the s dated 9th February 2024 and 11th March 2024. They stated that a boundary wall was constructed between March 2022 and June 2022 after the survey was carried out. They stated that the compound wall had been built in such a manner that no person was landlocked or in any manner inconvenienced. In the affidavit, they have given details of the land owned by the Parsi Dairy Farm (the land subject matter of Arbitration Petitions) and the names of several persons who are owners of the lands adjacent to the land of the Parsi Dairy Farm. It is claimed in the affidavit that notwithstanding the construction of the compound wall, the owners of the adjacent lands continue to enjoy unhindered and unfettered access to their respective land. [2024] 5 S.C.R. 167 Ajay Ishwar Ghute & Ors. v. Meher K. Patel & Ors. SUBMISSIONS IN BRIEF 12. The learned counsel for the appellant submitted that the impugned passed based on the “Minutes of ” is completely illegal and vitiated by the non-joinder of necessary parties. The learned senior counsel for the 1st and 2nd respondents and the learned counsel for the State defended the impugned by submitting that no one has been prejudiced due to the construction of the compound wall. 13. During the earlier hearings, we had repeatedly suggested to the learned senior counsel appearing for the 1st and 2nd respondents that the only proper course would be to remand the Writ Petition with a direction to implead persons claiming to be affected by the construction of the compound wall, as it seems to be an admitted position that several persons are likely to be affected by the construction of the compound wall in terms of the s passed in the Writ Petition. However, the 1st and 2nd respondents did not accept the suggestion. Hence, we are called upon to decide this appeal on merits. CONSIDERATION OF SUBMISSIONS 14. We have already quoted what the Deputy Superintendent of Police and the Superintendent of Land Records stated in their respective affidavits filed on 14th March 2022. In so many words, both of them stated on oath that the tribals who own and possess various parcels of adjacent lands were likely to be affected by the construction of the compound wall. In fact, in paragraph 9 of his affidavit, the District Superintendent of Land Records, who is the survey officer of the district under the MLR Code in categorical terms stated that if the compound wall is constructed as desired by the petitioners in the Writ Petition (1st and 2nd respondents herein), pieces of lands owned and lawfully possessed by third parties are likely to get landlocked. 15. Now, we come to the “Minutes of the ”. According to the latest affidavit of the 1st and 2nd respondents, several tribals claim to be owners of the lands adjacent to those claimed by the 1st and 2nd respondents.