We therefore find that it will be appropriate that the State of Uttarakhand is directed to also relocate the rescue centre nearby the ‘Tiger Safari’. At the same time, it will also be necessary to issue directions that, while undertaking construction of these ‘Tiger Safaris’, the provisions of the 2016 Guidelines are scrupulously followed. We also propose to issue further directions in this regard, in the operative part of the . The directions which would be issued by us would also be applicable to the existing safaris including the Pakhrau Tiger Safari. (c) Illegal construction and felling of trees 115. The next question that requires consideration is with regard to the illegal construction carried out in the Corbett Tiger Reserve and the illegal felling of trees for the said purpose. 116. The Corbett National Park is one of the oldest parks in the country. It was declared a National Park by the United Provinces National Park Act, 1935. After the launch of ‘Project Tiger’ and the amendment to the WLP Act in the year 2006, which inserted Chapter IVB, a [2024] 3 S.C.R. 257 In Re: T.N. Godavarman Thirumulpad v. Union of India & Ors. In Re: Gaurav Kumar Bansal Tiger Reserve admeasuring 1,288.31 sq. km. was notified by the Government of Uttarakhand by notification dated 26th February 2010, issued under Section 38V(1). Out of this 1,288.31 sq. km., 821.99 sq. km. has been declared as the core critical Tiger Habitat. Further, out of this 821.99 sq. km., 520.82 sq. km. forms part of the Corbett National Park, and 301.17 sq. km. of the Sonanadi Wildlife Sanctuary. The remaining reserved forest to the extent of 466.32 sq. km is a buffer area constituting 306.90 sq. km. in the Kalagarh Forest Division and 159.4 sq. km. in the Ram Nagar Forest Division. 117. The forests of the Corbett Tiger Reserve form an essential link corridor between Corbett and Rajaji National Park through the Rawasana – Sonanadi Corridor in the Lansdowne Forest Division. 118. The importance of the Corbett National Park has been captured in the “Status of Tigers, Co-predators & Prey in India” in the following words : “Corbett Tiger Reserve is the largest source population for tigers in Shivalik-Gangetic landscape and responsible for the remarkable recovery of tiger population in this landscape. The corridors connecting Corbett with the surrounding forest divisions and protected areas are crucial for the long-term survival of this metapopulation. xxx xxx xxx With a high ungulate biomass in the park Corbett Tiger Reserve maintains a high tiger density acting as a source of dispersing tigers to neighbouring protected areas (Lansdowne, Terai West, Amangarh and Ramnagar Forest Division) and is therefore of great importance for tiger and wildlife conservation in this landscape. Corbett Tiger Reserve has the largest tiger population in any single Protected Area in the world.” 119. The Fifth Cycle of the ‘Management Effectiveness Evaluation of Tiger Reserves in India’ was released in the year 2023 based on the survey conducted in the year 2022.