Accepting the respondents’ argument that once included in the List, communities specified in the List of Scheduled Castes assume homogeneity would be akin to extending the legal fiction to a purpose that was not envisaged. The purpose of the deeming fiction is ‘identification’ of castes which are the Scheduled Castes. The logical corollary of the identification of castes or groups as Scheduled Castes is not that this creates a homogenous unit. The inclusion of certain castes within the Scheduled Caste category is only to demarcate them from other castes which are not included in the category. The inclusion does not automatically lead to the formation of a uniform and internally homogenous class which cannot be further classified. Article 341 creates a legal fiction for the limited purpose of identification of Scheduled Castes by distinguishing them from other groups. It offers no guidance on how the Scheduled Castes fare among themselves or on heterogeneity among the Scheduled Castes for the purpose of the Constitution. The legal fiction which assigns an identity to the Scheduled Castes, separate from other categories cannot be stretched to draw inferences about the existence or non-existence of internal differences among the Scheduled Castes. The only logical consequence is that each of the groups that is included in the list will receive the benefits that the Constitution provides to the Scheduled Castes as a class. 1398 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 113. In Chinnaiah (supra), Justice Santosh Hegde observed that the Castes notified by the President in the exercise of power under Article 341 form a class in themselves. For this purpose, the learned Judge relied on the following observations of the Constitution Bench in NM Thomas (supra): a. Justice Mathew observed that the members of the Scheduled Castes attain a new status by the Presidential Notification;165 b. Justice Krishna Iyer observed that the Scheduled Castes are not castes within the Hindu fold but an amalgam of castes, races, groups, tribes, communities or parts thereof found on investigation to be the lowliest and in need of massive State aid and notified as such by the President;166 and c. Justice Fazal Ali observed that the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes have been given a special status in the Constitution and they constitute a class by themselves.167 114. It is necessary to understand the context of the case to understand the import of the above observations. In NM Thomas (supra), rules providing concessions to the members of the Scheduled Castes for qualifying at the entrance examination were challenged. One of the issues before the Court was whether the concession to the members of the Scheduled Castes violated Article 16(2) since it discriminates solely on the ground of “caste”. To overcome the embargo placed by Article 16(2), the learned Judges observed that provision for affirmative action is made in favour of the Scheduled Castes, which once notified by the President in exercise of the power under Article 341 are not a “caste” but a class. The class that is constituted by the Presidential notification as the Scheduled Castes consists of numerous castes, thereby forming a class.