However, the clause spells out a consequence of forfeiture of the advance amount if the purchaser does not pay the balance consideration; and b. According to Clause 21 of the sale agreements, the parties had entered into an earlier agreement to sell dated 19 March 1994. This agreement did not materialize and the agreed price was no longer applicable. Fresh agreements were entered into “to provide a last opportunity to successfully enter into a sale-purchase agreement.” This intention of the parties is also clear from Clause 23 of the agreement. 12. This Court held that the suit was barred by limitation since the suit had to be instituted within three years of the time fixed for completing the performance (which was three months from the sale agreements). The three years ended in June 2000 and the suit ought to have been instituted within that period to not be barred by limitation. 13. This Court also held the following on merits: a. Section 10 of the Specific Relief Act is not procedural but substantive. Thus, the 2018 amendment to the provision does not apply retrospectively to pending proceedings; b. Under the unamended provision, the Court’s power to grant specific performance was discretionary. This discretion ought not to be exercised arbitrarily.5 The purchaser must be vigilant to enforce his right. Clause 3 of the agreements was drafted to provide “one last opportunity for the purchaser to make good their lapse which had happened on the earlier occasion.” The time for performance of the contract, including payment lasted till June 1997; c. The plaintiff was not ready and willing to perform the contract. The purchaser did not voluntarily adhere to the time stipulated under the contract. However, the vendors fulfilled their obligation 5 Saradamanikandappan v. S. Rajalakshmi (2011) 12 SCC 18 [2024] 11 S.C.R. 681 M/s Siddamsetty Infra Projects Pvt. Ltd. v. Katta Sujatha Reddy & Ors. to provide documentation. DW-1 averred that all documents were available and that the petitioner entered into an agreement only after he was satisfied with the title. Specific performance cannot be enforced in favour of a party who has not proven that he was always ready and willing to perform his part of the contract; d. The Trial Court’s reasoning on the question of whether the petitioner has possession of the suit property is correct; and e. Section 12 of the Specific Relief Act does not apply to situations where the inability to perform the contract arises out of the party’s own conduct.6 In the instant case, there was no inability on the part of the parties to perform the contract. The petitioner was not willing to perform the contract after entering into a “time-sensitive agreement”. 14. This Court directed the respondents/vendors to repay the sale consideration received with an interest of 7.5 percent from the date on which the payment was made till the time the entire amount is paid back. The payment was directed to be made within six months. 15. The petitioner filed a review petition against the of this Court.