Digital Supreme Court Reports all the qualified persons, it would amount to causing injustice to the others who possess such qualification but had not applied being honest to themselves as knowingly they did not possess the qualification sought for in the notification though they otherwise held another degree. Therefore, if there is any change in qualification/criteria after the notification is issued but before the completion of the selection process and the employer/recruiting agency seeks to adopt the change it will be incumbent on the employer to issue a corrigendum incorporating the changes to the notification and invite applications from those qualified as per the changed criteria and consider the same along with the applications received in response to the initial notification. The same principle will hold good when a consideration is made by the Court.” 12. Coming back to the case at hand, we are inclined to agree with the submissions made by learned counsel for the appellant. In the first instance, the respondents ought not to have issued a subsequent communication after having issued a public advertisement fixing the cut off date for reckoning the age of candidates, as on 01st January, 2011. The initial decision taken by the respondents was sought to be overturned later on, merely on the basis of an internal discussion within the department and it was decided that a fresh notice be issued changing the date that was initially fixed as 01st January, 2011 to 1st November, 2011. This was done without following the due process as prescribed, of issuing a pubic advertisement, etc. Nor was the earlier advertisement recalled. In the meantime, going by the earlier advertisement issued by the respondent, the appellant had already applied. As per the said advertisement, his age was within the permissible range. Not only that, he was high up in the selection list and was even appointed to the post of Amin on 27th June, 2015. 13. Having regard to the aforesaid facts and circumstances of the case, the impugned judgement is quashed and set aside. It is deemed appropriate to set the clock back and uphold the earlier passed by the respondents appointing the appellant to the post of Amin by reckoning the age of the candidates in the EBC category as 40 years, as on 01st January, 2011. [2024] 2 S.C.R. 1203 Anil Kishore Pandit v. The State of Bihar and Others 14. The appointment of the appellant to the post of Amin is restored w.e.f 27th June, 2015, the date of his initial appointment, without any break in service. The appellant would be entitled to all the notional benefits except for the actual wages, having not discharged his duties on the said post in all these years. A letter reappointing the appellant to the subject post shall be issued by the respondents on the above terms within two weeks from today. The appointment of the respondent No.8 cannot be sustained and stands revoked in the light of the aforesaid s. 15. The present appeal is allowed on the above terms.