13.1 In our opinion, the same being an omission. In to make the Act workable and putting timelines for exercise of statutory right of appeal which always is there, we deem it appropriate to fill up this gap, which otherwise does not go against the scheme of the Act. Hence, for the period for filing of appeal in Section 101(2), we take guidance from Section 101(1) of the Act. The period provided for filing the appeal therein is 30 days and in case sufficient cause is shown the power to condone the delay has also been conferred on the appellate authority. Timeline has also been provided for decision of appeal. 13.2 ed accordingly. (C) REGARDING SECOND APPEAL 14. In sub-section (4), it is provided that no second appeal shall lie from the of Sessions Court. Sub-section (5) provides for appeal to the High Court against an of Children’s Court, for this procedure of CrPC is applicable, as if the second appeal may lie against the passed by the Children’s Court. High Court has also been conferred revisional powers under Section 102 of the Act. 14.1 The aforesaid provisions will also need examination in detail for seamless working of the provisions of the Act removing anomalies. However, as this is not the issue involved in the present appeal and no arguments have been addressed thereon, hence, we leave this issue open to be considered in some appropriate case. 808 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports V. VALIDITY OF PASSED BY THE BOARD ON 05.04.2022 15. In the case in hand, after receipt of the report dated 01.02.2022 submitted by the Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, NIMHANS-DWCO, the arguments of learned counsel for the parties were heard by the Board and vide dated 29.03.2022 the matter was kept for s on 05.04.2022. On that day, the Principal Magistrate passed the , after considering the preliminary assessment report and the social investigation report, that the CCL is to be tried by the Children’s Court as an adult. The records of the case were directed to be transferred to the Children’s Court, Bengaluru. When the file was put up before the member of the Board for signature, he recorded as under: “I am having a dissenting view to above said . I will pass detailed on next date of hearing.” 15.1 The matter was directed to be put up on 12.04.2022. On the next date, the Principal Magistrate being not there and another person having been appointed as a member of the Board, the arguments apparently were reheard by the two members of the Board in the absence of the Principal Magistrate, and it was directed that enquiry into the offence allegedly committed by the CCL is to be conducted by the Board. 15.2 Section 7 of the Act deals with the procedure in relation to the Board. Sub-Section 3 thereof provides that the Board may act notwithstanding absence of any member of the Board. No passed by the Board shall be invalid by reason only of absence of any member during any stage of proceedings.