Clause (b) of Section 25 provides that if the respondent fails to communicate his statement of defence in accordance with sub-section (1) of Section 23, the Arbitral Tribunal shall continue the proceedings. Clause (c) of Section 25 provides that if a party fails to appear at an oral hearing or to produce documents, the Arbitral Tribunal may continue the proceedings and make the arbitral award on the basis of whatever evidence is available with it. The power to terminate arbitral proceedings on the claimant’s default to file a statement of claim is the only provision under the Arbitration Act to terminate the arbitral proceedings apart from Section 32. 11. The Arbitration Act has two provisions for terminating an Arbitrator’s mandate. Sections 14 and 15 are the relevant sections. The Arbitrator is empowered to withdraw from his office, which terminates his mandate. However, the arbitral proceedings continue by the arbitrator’s substitution. 12. The of termination passed by the learned Arbitrator, in this case, gives an impression that he was of the view that unless parties move the Arbitral Tribunal with a request to fix a meeting or a date for the hearing, the Tribunal was under no obligation to fix a meeting or a date for hearing. The appointment of the Arbitral Tribunal is made with the object of adjudicating upon the dispute covered by the arbitration clause in the agreement between the 770 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports parties. By agreement, the parties can appoint an Arbitrator or Arbitral Tribunal. Otherwise, the Court can do so under section 11 of the Arbitration Act. An Arbitrator does not do pro bono work. For him, it is a professional assignment. A duty is vested in the learned Arbitrator or the Arbitral Tribunal to adjudicate upon the dispute and to make an award. The object of the Arbitration Act is to provide for an efficient dispute resolution process. An Arbitrator who has accepted his appointment cannot say that he will not fix a meeting to conduct arbitral proceedings or a hearing date unless the parties request him to do so. It is the duty of the Arbitral Tribunal to do so. If the claimant fails to file his statement of claim in accordance with Section 23, in view of clause (a) of Section 25, the learned Arbitrator is bound to terminate the proceedings. If the respondent to the proceedings fails to file a statement of defence in accordance with Section 23, in the light of clause (b) of Section 25, the learned Arbitrator is bound to proceed further with the arbitral proceedings. Even if the claimant, after filing a statement of claim, fails to appear at an oral hearing or fails to produce documentary evidence, the learned Arbitrator is expected to continue the proceedings as provided in clause (c) of Section 25. Thus, he can proceed to make an award in such a case. 13. On a conjoint reading of Sections 14 and 15, it is apparent that an Arbitrator always has the option to withdraw for any reason.