Exercise of mineral rights is the basis for payment of royalty or dead rent. Consequently, value of mineral produced [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1845 Mineral Area Development Authority & Anr. v. M/s Steel Authority of India & Anr. Etc. cannot be used as a measure to once again impose a tax on mineral bearing land under Entry 49 - List II. If so, Entry 50 – List II would be rendered redundant. i. As Entry 49 - List II does not apply to mineral bearing land, the limitations imposed by Parliament by law relating to mineral development with respect to Entry 50 - List II would restrict the power of the State legislature to impose tax on mineral rights under the latter Entry. Thus, the power of the State legislature to impose tax under Entry 50 - List II is subject to the Parliament imposing any limitation by law relating to mineral development. 42. In view of the above discussion, the eleven questions referred to this Bench are accordingly answered. In particular, I hold that: (i) Sections 9, 9A and 25 of the MMDR Act, 1957 denude or limit the scope of Entry 50 - List II; (ii) the majority decision in Kesoram is a serious departure from the law laid down by the seven-judge Bench in India Cement which was wholly unwarranted and therefore, in my view, the said majority is liable to be overruled and is overruled to the extent of holding that royalty is not a tax; (iii) taxes on lands and buildings under Entry 49 - List II contemplates a tax levied directly on the land as a unit having a defined relationship with the land and does not include mineral bearing lands within its scope; (iv) in view of the declaration under Section 2 of the MMDR Act, 1957 made in terms of Entry 54 - List I and to the extent of the provisions of the said Act, the State legislature is denuded of its powers under Enry 50 - List II; and (v) Entry 50 - List II is a unique Entry because it is the only taxation Entry in Lists I and II where the taxing power of a State legislature has been subjected to “any limitations imposed by Parliament by law relating to mineral development”. The dictum in MPV Sundararamier has not discussed on Entry 50 – List II and hence the said decision has no bearing as such on the present controversy. The conclusion that ‘royalty’ is a ‘tax’ is the only exception to the position of law laid down in MPV Sundararamier. Of course, the scope of expression 1846 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “any limitations” in Entry 50 - List II is wide enough to include the imposition of restrictions, conditions, principles as well as a prohibition. 43. In the result, in my view, the s in India Cement, Orissa Cement, Mahalaxmi Fabric Mills, Saurasthra Cement, Mahanadi Coalfields, Kannadasan excluding to the extent overruled in Tata Iron and Steel, and Tata Iron and Steel are correct and therefore are binding precedent and cannot be overruled.