However, before us, it was argued on behalf of the revenue that in view of the in Vijaya Bank’s case, even if the securities were treated as part of the trading assets, the income therefrom had to be assessed under section 18 of the Act and not under section 28 of the Act as income from securities can only come within section 18 and not under section 28. We do not find any merit in this argument. Firstly, as stated above, Vijaya Bank’s case has no application to the facts of this case. Secondly, in the present case, the Tribunal has found that the securities were held as trading assets. Thirdly, it has been held by the Supreme Court in the subsequent decision reported in 57 I.T.R. Page 306, in the case of C.I.T. Andhra Pradesh v. Cocanada Radhaswami Bank Limited, that income from securities can also 874 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports come under section 28 as income from business. This is very important. It analyzes the of the Supreme Court in UCO Bank’s case reported in 53 I.T.R. page 250, which has been followed by the Supreme Court in Vijaya Bank’s case. It is true that once an income falls under section 18, it cannot come under section 28. However, as laid down by the Supreme Court in Cocanada Radhaswami Bank’s case (supra), income from securities treated as trading assets can come under section 28. In the present case, the department has treated income from securities under section 28. Lastly, the facts in the case of UCO Bank reported in 53 I.T.R. page 250, also support our view in the present case. In UCO Bank’s case, the assessee Bank claimed a set off under section 24(2) of the Income-tax Act, 1922 (section 71(1) of the present Act) against its income from interest on securities under section 8 of the 1922 Act (similar to section 28 of the present Act). It was held that UCO Bank was not entitled to such a set off as the income from interest on securities came under section 8 of the 1922 Act. Therefore, even in UCO Bank’s case, the department had assessed income from interest on securities right from the inception under section 8 of the 1922 Act and, therefore, the set-off was not allowed under, section 24(2) of the Act. Therefore, UCO Bank’s case has also no application to the facts of the present case in which the assessee's income from interest on securities is assessed under section 28 right from inception, in fact, in UCO Bank’s case, the matter was remitted back as it was contended on behalf of UCO Bank that the securities in question were a part of trading assets held by the assessee in the course of its business and the income by way of interest on such securities was assessable under section 10 of the Income-tax Act, 1922 (similar to section 28 of the present Act). It is for this reason that in the subsequent of the Supreme Court in the case of Radhaswami Bank Limited (supra), that the Supreme Court has observed, after reading UCO Bank’s case, that where securities [2024] 10 S.C.R.