Per this test, Muslims were a numerically larger group than the pre-independence dominant class, i.e., Christians. Hence, Muslims do not have the locus to invoke Article 30. In any case, the institutions that were formed prior to the coming of the Constitution cannot claim minority status because there was no such Fundamental Right when such institutions were created. c. To claim protection under Article 30, the minority community must prove that the institution was both established and is being administered by the community. Merely proving that the minority community established the institution is not enough to claim the status of a minority institution. d. The word ‘establish’ in Article 30 means bringing an institution into existence. For this, the Court must see if the institution in its legally operational form could have existed ‘but for’ the Statute. If the Statute accorded legal operationalization to the institution, the establishment would be attributed to the legislature and not the minority community. e. The de facto position of the minority’s role in administration is irrelevant to determining administration by a minority. The Court must see various relevant indicia of administrative control, including who controls the decisions regarding admission, levy of fees, governing council, the appointment of staff, disciplinary powers, and ordinances and statutes. f. The meaning of ‘establish’ in Article 30 is bringing an institution into existence. AMU was brought into existence by the then Central Legislature, through the AMU Act, 1920. The Constituent Assembly Debates also do not expressly identify AMU as a minority institution within the ambit of Article 30. This indicates that the drafters intended to establish the university’s national character. To this day, the UOI contributes over a thousand crores to AMU, which has resulted in a complete metamorphosis of the university. Finally, the Preamble to the AMU Act, 1920 reflects that AMU was brought into existence by the Act and not by the Muslim community. 1804 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports g. The AMU Court only has residuary powers, not administrative powers. There is no majority of Muslims in the AMU Court, as only 32 out of 180 or more members are Muslims. Except for the AMU Court, no other body or authority is required to be Muslim. Moreover, various administrative functions are vested with bodies such as the Executive and Academic Councils and the Visitor, which are characteristically governmental or external. Even if there are a few Muslim members present in any of the bodies, it was simply an initiative by the State to instil confidence in the community and to ensure their participatory role without giving them any significant control. Hence, AMU is not being administered by the Muslim community. h. The contention that the Attorney General for India must defend the 1981 Amendment Act is flawed, especially when the same does not exist in the eyes of law—the same having been struck down by the Allahabad High Court. Regardless, the present dispute is not limited to inter se the parties, but involves questions of constitutional interpretation and national importance.