56 [1989] 1 SCR 143 57 [1999] 1 SCR 497 58 The three-part test is as follows: A court that is called upon to determine a discrimination claim under s. 15(1) should make the following three broad inquiries: A. Does the impugned law (a) draw a formal distinction between the claimant and others on the basis of one or more personal characteristics, or (b) fail to take into account the claimant’s already disadvantaged position within Canadian society resulting in substantively differential treatment between the claimant and others on the basis of one or more personal characteristics? B. Is the claimant subject to differential treatment based on one or more enumerated and analogous grounds? and C. Does the differential treatment discriminate, by imposing a burden upon or withholding a benefit from the claimant in a manner which reflects the stereotypical application of presumed group or personal characteristics, or which otherwise has the effect of perpetuating or promoting the view that the individual is less capable or worthy of recognition or value as a human being or as a member of Canadian society, equally deserving of concern, respect, and consideration? 59 [2008] 2 SCR 483 [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1413 State of Andhra Pradesh and Others v. Dr. Rao, V.B.J. Chelikani and Others General),60 wherein the Supreme Court of Canada explicitly rejected the notion that formal equality alone is adequate, emphasizing the necessity of substantive equality, stating: “Substantive equality, unlike formal equality, rejects the mere presence or absence of difference as an answer to differential treatment. It insists on going behind the facade of similarities and differences. It asks not only what characteristics the different treatment is predicated upon, but also whether those characteristics are relevant considerations under the circumstances. The focus of the inquiry is on the actual impact of the impugned law, taking full account of social, political, economic and historical factors concerning the group. The result may be to reveal differential treatment as discriminatory because of prejudicial impact or negative stereotyping. Or it may reveal that differential treatment is required in to ameliorate the actual situation of the claimant group.” 63. Thus, the Supreme Court of Canada has significantly reshaped the comparator group requirement, providing a broader and wider meaning to equality claims. The test poses two questions – (1) Does the law create a distinction based on an enumerated or analogous ground? and (2) Does the distinction create a disadvantage by perpetuating prejudice or stereotypes? The purpose of the distinction component is to demonstrate that the claimant has been treated differently from others—specifically, that they have been denied a benefit available to others or are burdened in a way that others are not, due to personal characteristics that qualify as enumerated or analogous grounds. 64. In Quebec (Attorney General) v. A,61 the court observed that substantive equality is not compromised merely because a disadvantage is imposed; rather, it is denied when that disadvantage is unfair or objectionable. This is often the case when the disadvantage perpetuates prejudice or stereotypes.