d) The report of the Committee constituted by this Hon’ble Court qua women prisoners and children is not available. It is submitted that the said report may be made available to the undersigned so that the problems can be highlighted and the recommendations can be brought to the notice of this Hon’ble Court.’ 21. Directions are issued to the State of Chhattisgarh on the above terms and compliance report be filed on an affidavit before the next date of hearing. 1050 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (D) STATE OF RAJASTHAN 22. The Note by the AC states that 30 works relating to construction of jails are on-going, including construction of District Jail Dungarpur, which is likely to be completed by 31st August, 2024, construction of prison barracks in Sub-Jail Kishangarh, District Jail Barmer, Central Jail Sriganganagar, District Jail Nagaur, District Jail Churu, Central Jail Kota and District Jail Jhunjhunu. Similarly, reconstruction of open jail quarters in various jails including Central Jail Kota and District Jail Barmer, most of the works are scheduled to be completed either in the present calendar year or at the latest, by March, 2025. 23. As far as the reports of the Committee constituted by this Court are concerned, para 8 of the Chief Secretary’s affidavit reads as under: ‘The recommendations of the Committee formed under the chairmanship of the Hon’ble District and Sessions Judges were examined and the following land has been allotted for prisons- 1. Sub Jail Bari (Dholpur) 2. Sub Jail Hindaun City 3. District Jail Bhilwara 4. Sub Jail Phalodi 5. Sub Jail Choti Sadri 6. District Jail Rajsamand 7. Sub Jail Bheem 8. Sub Jail Ramganjmand 9. Sub Jail Nainwa 10. Sub Jail Bhawanimandi’ 24. The State Government has stated that various requests for sanction of money and identification of suitable land for expansion would be done in the coming months. 25. The AC, in praesenti, does not seek any positive directions to the authorities concerned. However, the AC submits that the timelines be adhered to, both for works in progress as also for analysing new proposals. The State is directed to take note of the afore-stated and proceed accordingly. [2024] 5 S.C.R. 1051 In Re-Inhuman Conditions In 1382 Prisons (E) STATE OF JHARKHAND 26. Various recommendations made by the Committee for the 14 Jails (Central/District) have been indicated. It has been stated that pursuant to the recommendations of the Committee, the Government has written to all the Prison Superintendents to seek preparation of estimates from the Jharkhand Police Housing Corporation Limited3 for the works recommended. The State Government has sought information wherever new prisons have been recommended for establishment. 27. The AC has sought directions as under: ‘i) There is urgent need for construction of new jail in Deogarh for which part of the land is also acquired and another part of the land has been earmarked. The Chief Secretary of the State should ensure that necessary steps are taken for process of the construction of new Jail at Deogarh and submit a status report to this Hon’ble Court.