43.6 At para No. 5.4 of the reply affidavit, contemnor-respondent No. 7 has stated that as the of this Court was not being complied with by the petitioner and since investigation was permitted to be continued, the contemnor was under a bona [2024] 8 S.C.R. 275 Tusharbhai Rajnikantbhai Shah v. Kamal Dayani & Ors. fide belief of having the power to hear and allow the remand application. It is in the course of exercise of judicial discretion conferred on the officer by law, that the dated 13th December, 2023 came to be passed. 43.7 The complaint of ill-treatment made by the petitioner was dealt with by the contemnor-respondent No. 7 by following the procedure prescribed in para 14 of the Criminal Manual, Gujarat High Court. Since the petitioner made a complaint of ill-treatment by police in presence of his Advocates, the contemnor-respondent No.7 proceeded to make physical observation of the petitioner wherein no external injury or mark of violence was found on his body which fact was recorded in the statement of the petitioner which was also signed by him. 43.8 At para No. 7 of the reply affidavit, it is stated that the petitioner filed a bail application under Section 437 CrPC without there being any taking him in judicial custody. The said application was submitted before the Registry of the Court and was registered in the Central Filing System and thereafter, placed before the Court. The Assistant Public Prosecutor (APP) objected to the prayer for bail, but the contemnor-respondent No. 7 considering the facts and circumstances of the case and the ad-interim relief granted to the petitioner by this Court, directed his release on bail. 43.9 At para No. 8 of the reply affidavit, it has been stated that 8th Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate, Surat passed an to keep the complaint filed by the petitioner alleging ill-treatment in police custody for verification, but since the petitioner had admitted that his complaint of custodial violence had already been recorded by the contemnor-respondent No.7 on the very date of the completion of the remand period, i.e., 16th December, 2023, she thought it fit to pass a detailed dismissing the complaint on 6th January, 2024 by exercising jurisdiction under Section 203 CrPC. The contemnor-respondent No. 7 has pleaded that to her knowledge, the petitioner has not challenged the said judicial . At this stage, it would be apposite to note that the contemnor- respondent No. 7 has assigned no reasons in the reply affidavit as to how the dated 21st December, 2023 passed by the 276 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports predecessor, i.e., 8th Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate directing that the complaint should be placed for verification which would mean recording the statements under Sections 200 and 202 CrPC could have been reviewed by her. Be that as it may, the dated 6th January, 2024 passed by the contemnor-respondent No. 7 has already been set aside by the High Court of Gujarat by exercising revisional jurisdiction vide dated 22nd December, 2024 passed in R/Criminal Revision Application No.