These institutions must be educational institutions of the minorities in truth and reality and not mere masked phantoms. They may be institutions intended to give the children of the minorities the best general and professional education, to make them complete men and women of the country and to enable them to go out into the world fully prepared and equipped. They may be institutions where special provision is made to the advantage and for the advancement of the minority children. They may be institutions where the parents of the children of the minority community may expect that education in accordance with the basic tenets of their religion would be imparted by or under the guidance of teachers, learned and steeped in the faith. They may be institutions where the parents expect their children to grow in a pervasive atmosphere which is in harmony with their religion or conducive to the pursuit of it. What is important and what is imperative is that there must exist some real positive index to enable the institution to be identified as an educational institution of the minorities. We have already said that in the present case apart from the half a dozen words ‘as a Christian minorities’ institution’ occurring in one of the objects recited in the memorandum of association, there is nothing whatever, in the memorandum or the articles of association or in the actions of the society to indicate that the institution was intended to be a minority educational [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1895 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. institution. As already found by us these half a dozen words were introduced merely to found a claim on Article 30(1). They were a smoke-screen.” (emphasis supplied) 86. It is thus evident that establishment is a question of fact and has to be proved as such. The factum of establishment cannot, thus, be solely determined by intention of the minority community alone; rather, it has to be factually established in words and deeds and functioning of the university. 87. Azeez Basha (supra) categorically dealt with the factum of AMU’s establishment to conclude that AMU was not established by the Muslim community, in the following manner: “It is true, as is clear from the 1920-Act, that the nucleus of the Aligarh University was the M.A.O. College, which was till then a teaching institution under the Allahabad’ University. The conversion of that college (if we may use that expression) into a university was however not by the Muslim minority; it took place by virtue of the 1920- Act which was passed by the Central legislature. There was no Aligarh University existing till the 1920- Act was passed. It was brought into being by the 1920-Act and must therefore be held to have been established by the Central Legislature which by passing the 1920-Act incorporated it. The fact that it was based on the M.A.O. College, would make no difference to the question as to who established the Aligarh University. The answer to our mind as to who established the Aligarh University is clear and that is that it was the Central Legislature by enacting the 1920-Act that established the said University.” (emphasis supplied) 88.