The Petitioners also argued that the Immigrants (Expulsion from Assam) Act, 1950 applies exclusively to the immigrants in Assam. xi. The Petitioners finally asserted that the writ petitions remain maintainable and should not be dismissed on the basis of delay. They contended that Section 6A can still be invoked and, therefore, constitutes a continuous wrong, providing a fresh cause of action. They argued against the application of the doctrine of laches, emphasizing that substantial questions of law are at the core of this case. 1034 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Respondents’ submissions 33. Mr. R. Venkataramani, learned Attorney General, Mr. Tushar Mehta, Learned Solicitor General, Mr. Kapil Sibal, Ms. Indira Jaising, Mr. Sanjay Hegde, Ms. Malvika Trivedi, Mr. P.V. Surendranath Learned Senior Counsel, Mr. Shadan Farasat, Dr. Vivek Sharma, Mr. Mehmood Pracha and Mr. Syed Shahi Rizvi appeared for the Respondents. Their contentions have also been summarized hereinbelow: i. At the very outset, it is the Respondents’ assertion that this Court should refrain from delving any further into the matter on account of the issues raised in the context of foreign policy. They contend that foreign policy is traditionally excluded from the purview of judicial review. ii. The Respondents countered the Petitioners’ claims, emphasizing that Section 6A, introduced in 1985, has faced challenge after a considerable delay of 27 years, invoking the doctrine of laches to argue against the removal of rights established during this period. They further urged that even if the damage may be construed to be continuing, it does not give a fresh cause of action to file the petition after an inordinate delay. iii. Regarding the term fraternity, the Respondents argued that it encompasses equal regard among individuals, preventing societal division into distinct groups. The Respondents further asserted that Section 6A reinforces the idea of fraternity, in the absence of which society would be broken into a division between ‘others’ and ‘us’. iv. Addressing concerns about Articles 6 and 7, the Respondents argued that the cut-off dates align with the permit system and are not violative of the Constitution. They asserted that Article 11, in conjunction with Entry 17 of List I of the Seventh Schedule, grants Parliament the power to legislate on citizenship, superseding other provisions in Part II of the Constitution. v. The Respondents contended that Section 5(2)’s provision for the oath of allegiance is immaterial to Section 6A and is inconsequential. vi. Article 14, according to the Respondents, can only be invoked by those seeking benefits for similarly situated individuals, [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1035 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 which the Petitioners do not claim. The Respondents argued that a statute cannot be struck down as violative of Article 14 merely because it does not include all relevant classes, as the Parliament can decide the degrees of harm it wants to legislate. They further asserted that there is an underlying rationale for the cut-off dates and that the objective behind Section 6A and the Assam Accord reflects the constitutional tradition of accommodating differences through asymmetric federal arrangements.