The witness here knew the victim, allegedly saw the fatal assault on the victim and yet kept quiet about the incident. If PW 4 had the occasion to actually witness the assault, his reaction and conduct does not match up to ordinary reaction of a person who knew the deceased and his family. His testimony therefore deserves to be discarded.” 29. The two sisters(PW-1 and PW-2) were not under any restraint after witnessing the custodial assault allegedly made on Jeeva. They admitted in their cross-examination that they had been arraigned as accused in a couple of prohibition cases. Thus, it can safely be inferred that these two so-called eyewitnesses were having sufficient contact with the legal system and were well aware of the legal machinery and would be knowing the importance of filing a complaint promptly. Nothing prevented these ladies from immediately approaching the higher officials or the concerned Court to make a complaint of the alleged assault made on their victim brother in the Amraiwadi Police Station by the police officials. 30. Admittedly, an advocate named Shri Patanwadia was taken to the Amraiwadi Police Station for facilitating Jeeva’s surrender and he was also present when Jeeva(deceased) was presented in the Court on 11th June, 1992 by the Investigating Officer. Thus, the advocate was a vital witness to unfold the truth of the case. However, he was not examined in evidence for reasons best known to the prosecution. Even if we assume that the advocate may have been hesitant to become a witness in a case involving his client, the fact remains that PW-1 and PW-2 had engaged Shri Patanwadia to represent Jeeva(deceased) in the criminal case wherein he was arraigned as an accused and he was taken along for effecting the surrender of Jeeva at the police [2024] 7 S.C.R. 389 Vinod Jaswantray Vyas (Dead) Through Lrs v. The State of Gujarat station. Thus, it was logically expected from PW-1 and PW-2, that after having seen their brother Jeeva being assaulted by the police officer, they would have immediately thought of approaching the advocate engaged by them and tell him about the custodial torture. However, no such step was taken by the sisters(PW-1 and PW-2) of the deceased and this pertinent omission in failing to inform their advocate about the custodial torture allegedly meted out to Jeeva gives rise to a strong assumption about the unnatural conduct of these eyewitnesses, casting a doubt on the truthfulness of their version and discredits their testimony. 31. Keeping in view the above referred s and the infirmities noticeable in the evidence of Selvin Prabhakar(PW-1) and Dhanlakshmi Vaiyapuri(PW-2), we are convinced that they are not witnesses of sterling worth and their evidence is not fit to be relied upon. 32. The prosecution claims that Naykar Vasudev(PW-3) was purportedly arraigned as an accused on a complaint lodged by one Babu Raja Ram and was also lodged at the Amraiwadi Police Station, at the same time, when Jeeva was allegedly subjected to custodial violence. He was examined as PW-3 and deposed that he saw the Police Inspector Vyas(appellant herein)(A1) and Mr. Patel(co-accused)(A2) beating Jeeva with sticks, etc.