However, non-potable liquor or “industrial alcohol” as it is popularly called, can be diluted and consumed as a beverage, and the State has an obligation and powers to regulate and ensure that there is no such abuse having regard to Article 47 of the Constitution being a Directive Principle of State Policy. Hence, under Entry 8 - List II, the State can make laws for prevention of production, possession, sale etc. of non-potable alcohol as “intoxicating liquors”. Such regulation would be intra vires Entry 8 - List II and would not be in conflict with any other Entry in List I, II or List III. This would also be in line with Article 47 of the Constitution. 10.6 The aforesaid view was affirmed in Bileshwar Khand Udyog by holding that clarity was brought about in respect of “industrial alcohol” in Synthetics and Chemicals (7J) and the competency of the State to frame any legislation to levy any tax or duty on “industrial alcohol” was excluded. However, under Entry 33 - List III, there was power vested in the State insofar as “industrial alcohol” was concerned as the said product was a product of a scheduled industry, namely, Item 26 of the First Schedule of the IDRA which was enacted pursuant to Entry 52 - List I. This is subject to the intention of the Parliament to occupy the field as per the provisions of the IDRA, in particular, under Section 18G of the said Act. Gujchem Distillers also followed the aforesaid . Khoday Distilleries also emphasised the fact that the State has the power to completely prohibit the manufacture, sale, possession, distribution and consumption of potable liquor as a beverage but the State [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2111 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons cannot prohibit trade and business in medicinal and toilet preparations containing liquor or alcohol. In the same way, the State cannot prohibit trade or business in “industrial alcohol” which is not used as a beverage but used legitimately for industrial purposes. It was held that restrictions imposed by the States on trade or business in “industrial alcohol” or in medicinal and toilet preparations containing liquor or alcohol could be for the purpose of preventing their abuse or diversion for use as or in beverages. 10.7 In Shree Krishna Gyanoday Sugar Ltd. it was categorically observed that the excise authorities under the concerned State Act could supervise the working of the distilleries which had composite licences to manufacture not only denatured spirit and other spirits for industrial use but also potable spirit or country liquor in to prevent alteration of denatured spirit and make it fit for human consumption. Therefore, at the distilleries of the licencees, supervision had to be provided as it was a regulatory measure. In this context also, it was clarified that the denatured spirit is a spirit which is not fit for human consumption and non-potable, and was also called as “other commercial spirits” under the rules in question, as they are used for industrial purposes or any other purpose other than human consumption as a beverage.