We notice that an appeal from the judgement extracted above, is pending before this Court. In the course of the present judgement, we make no comments on the merits thereof and clarify, that the above extract is only for the purpose of determining the question of [2024] 10 S.C.R. 349 Fuleshwar Gope v. Union of India & Ors. law, in respect of the timelines mentioned in the 2008 Rules, being either mandatory or directory in nature. 28.5.2 The Jharkhand High Court, recently, in Binod Kumar Ganjhu @Vinod Kumar Ganjhu @Binod Ganjhu v. Union of India32 made similar observations and held that the timelines in the 2008 Rules are directory. It was observed- “23. The decision in “Roopesh” is not a binding precedent and we do not find ourselves bound by the considerations of judicial comity and propriety. We are unable to record our agreement to the observations made by the Kerala High Court in “Roopesh” that the time-line provided under Rules 3 and 4 of the Sanction Rules is mandatory. It is indeed not an issue for debate that the expression “shall” would not always convey mandatory compliance of the provision in law. In our opinion, the Sanction Rules lay down a time- line which is in the nature of a guideline keeping in mind personal liberty of a person but such time-line cannot be held to be mandatory and, that too, in cases where serious allegations of commission of offence under UAP Act have been made and found prima-facie true by the NIA. 24. Long back, it has been held by the Hon’ble Supreme Court that the only principle which governs the criminal justice system is miscarriage of justice. This rule has its origin in the rules of principles of natural justice and that is why time and again the Hon’ble Supreme Court has laid stress on fair trial. Even on conclusion of the trial, the rendered by a competent Court was not held illegal where a charge was not framed by the Court [refer, “Begu v. King-Emperor” ILR (1925) 6 Lah 226]. In this context, we may also refer to the provisions under sections 468 to 473 of the Code of Criminal Procedure which provide period of limitation for taking cognizance and exclusion as well as extension of period of limitation in certain cases. The scheme of the Code of Criminal Procedure thus indicates that it is not every irregularity which vitiates the trial and except in very exceptional kind of 32 W.P(Crl) 308 of 2022 350 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports cases the Court would not step into and hold the rendered illegal. The fundamental right of an accused is of fair trial in which he has sufficient opportunity to defend himself by cross-examining the prosecution witnesses to bring out falsity in the prosecution case. But beyond this, an accused has only a statutory right to establish that the procedure as prescribed under the law has not been followed and such non-adherence to the procedure prescribed has deprived him a fair opportunity to defend himself which occasioned in miscarriage of justice.