… In the exercise of this wholesome power, the High Court is entitled to quash a proceeding if it comes to the conclusion that allowing the proceeding to continue would be an abuse of the process of the Court or that the ends of justice require that the proceeding ought to be quashed. The saving of the High Court’s inherent powers, both in civil and criminal matters, is designed to achieve a salutary public purpose which is that a court proceeding ought not to be permitted to degenerate into a weapon of harassment or persecution. In a criminal case, the veiled object behind a lame prosecution, the very nature of the material on which the structure of the prosecution rests and the like would justify the High Court in quashing the proceeding in the interest of justice.” [ emphasis added] 18.7 As can be gathered from the above, Section 482 Cr.P.C recognizes the inherent powers of the High Court to quash initiation of prosecution against the accused to pass such s as may be considered necessary to give effect to any under the Cr.P.C or to prevent abuse of the process of any court or otherwise to secure the ends of justice. It is a statutory power vested in the High Court to quash such criminal proceedings that would dislodge the charges levelled against the accused and based on the material produced, lead to a firm opinion that the assertions contained in the charges levelled by the prosecution deserve to be overruled. 94 [1977] 3 SCR 113 : (1977) 2 SCC 699 [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1247 M/s Karnataka Emta Coal Mines Limited and Another v. Central Bureau of Investigation 18.8 While exercising the powers vested in the High Court under Section 482, Cr.P.C, whether at the stage of issuing process or at the stage of committal or even at the stage of framing of charges, which are all stages that are prior to commencement of the actual trial, the test to be applied is that the Court must be fully satisfied that the material produced by the accused would lead to a conclusion that their defence is based on sound, reasonable and indubitable facts. The material relied on by the accused should also be such that would persuade a reasonable person to dismiss the accusations levelled against them as false. 19. EXTRAORDINARY POWERS OF THIS COURT UNDER ARTICLE 13 OF THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA 19.1. When it comes to invocation of the powers vested in this Court under Article 136 of the Constitution of India, unlike Section 482 Cr.P.C that has a statutory flavour, Article 136 confers plenary powers on this Court to interfere in suitable cases. In Arunachalam v. P.S.R. Sadhanantham and Another,95 this court has expounded on the amplitude of its powers under Article 136 in the following words: “4. ……Article 136 of the Constitution of India invests the Supreme Court with a plentitude of plenary, appellate power over all Courts and Tribunals in India. The power is plenary in the sense that there are no words in Article 136 itself qualifying that power.