Even otherwise, it cannot be invoked by the Petitioners, more so in light of India’s explicit reservation against its application in India, and given that it generally is applicable only to people under foreign domination. 314. That apart, it is difficult to countenance the assertion that immigration has impacted the self-governance of the original inhabitants of Assam. The Petitioners have not demonstrated how Section 6A affects their right to govern themselves democratically. In India, the right of self-governance has to be understood within the contours of the Constitution and the laws framed under it, which provides self-governance at the level of political units such as Panchayats and District Councils, in addition to the national-level Parliament and various state-level Legislatures.200 In addition, as discussed in Issue ix (Article 326 and Section 6a) (infra), India allows the opportunity for self-governance by providing the right to vote on the basis of adult franchise. 315. We must also note that the Petitioners’ have not claimed that any of these Constitutional or other electoral legislations have been violated. We are therefore not inclined to entertain the Petitioners’ claim on self-governance, which in a way amounts to a prayer for creation and recognition of an extra-Constitutional right. In any case, our analysis in this context would b on adjudicating the appropriateness and sufficiency of the electoral framework created by the Constitution. 316. It is clarified that, the arguments surrounding dilution of the voting ability of the indigenous Assamese have been addressed in the next section. Without repeating our observations on demographic anxiety in paragraph 300 of this judgement, it would suffice to state that we are unable to agree with the Petitioners’ argument that conferring citizenship to a subset of immigrants from East Pakistan 200 Constitution, supra note 22, Part IX, IXA, Sixth Schedule. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1125 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 with a different language or culture would amount to undermining the self-governance rights of the Assamese. (c) Right of sustainable development 317. The Petitioners have contended that Article 21 has been infringed by Section 6A, as it permits immigrants to utilize natural resources, thereby contravening the public trust doctrine. They argued that had the immigrants been resettled in other States, the strain on natural resources in Assam would have been mitigated, and the government could have managed resources more effectively. The Petitioners have also contended that allowing increased access to Assam’s natural resources contradicts the principles of sustainable development. 318. In this vein, the doctrine of public trust provides that the State holds the natural resources as the trustee of the general public, and as a consequence, bears a duty to protect them.201 This doctrine mandates that resources should be used in a manner that does not efface other people’s and subsequent generations’ right to use such resources in the long term. A 5-judge bench of this Court has held that the task of adjudicating whether public trust has been violated or not, would not entail a comparative analysis of alternative deployments of such natural resources.