273 of 2024. 43.10 At para Nos. 10 and 10.1 of the reply affidavit, it has been pleaded that the contemnor-respondent has served the judiciary honestly, sincerely and with total commitment since 2010 and that she continues to discharge her duties within the four corners of law. She had bona fide misinterpreted the of this Court and her sole intention was to secure the interest of justice and hence, the acts alleged should not be termed to be wilful and deliberate disobedience of this Court’s dated 8th December, 2023 as alleged by the petitioner. 44. The contemnor-respondent No. 7 has placed emphatic reliance on the following lines from this Court’s dated 8th December, 2023: - “5. However, the petitioner is directed to cooperate with the investigation and report to the Investigating Officer as and when directed to do so.” It was contended on her behalf that by directing the petitioner to cooperate with the investigation, this Court had given liberty to the Investigating Officer to seek his police custody, in case, he did not cooperate with the investigation. She tried to make out a case that by passing the granting police custody remand of the petitioner, she rather ensured the compliance of the above direction issued by this Court. 45. The 6th ACJM (contemnor-respondent No.7) has laid much stress in her affidavit upon the fact that the Investigating Officer had noted in his application that the accused-petitioner was not cooperating with the investigation. We fail to comprehend as to what could be construed to be cooperation in a criminal case based on allegations which prima facie appear to be in relation to a civil dispute. The transaction inter se between the parties pertained to sale and purchase of property. However, there was no written agreement for documenting the alleged sale transaction. Undisputedly, the accused-petitioner had [2024] 8 S.C.R. 277 Tusharbhai Rajnikantbhai Shah v. Kamal Dayani & Ors. appeared before the Investigating Officer on 11th December, 2023 with the copy of the under contempt, immediately upon being summoned, at the police station. Thus, there was neither bona fide nor genuine need for grant of police custody of the petitioner. 46. The contemnor-respondent No. 7 in her reply affidavit has tried to explain that the granting police custody was passed on the basis of a perception arising from the practice being followed in the State of Gujarat based on the Division Bench of the High Court of Gujarat in the case of Sunilbhai Sudhirbhai Kothari (supra). The said explanation is neither convincing nor tenable in view of the fact that it is not a case wherein a Court in Gujarat had passed an of anticipatory bail under Section 438 CrPC which was vague or open to different interpretations or contained a stipulation that the Investigating Officer could seek police remand of the accused. The under contempt dated 8th December, 2023 was passed by this Court while exercising its jurisdiction under Article 136 of the Constitution of India wherein there was no such stipulation that the accused could be remanded to police custody.