Hence, submits the learned counsel, that the requisite majority of nine votes was not obtained. 28. In response, Mr. Vinay Navare, learned senior counsel and Mr. Aniruddha Joshi, learned counsel for the Respondent authorities, have contended that the Appellant No. 1 is not entitled to the benefit of Section 3 of the Temporary Extension Act, 2023 as that Section will apply only to a person who has applied to the Scrutiny Committee for verification of his Caste Certificate before the date of filing the nomination papers and who is elected on the reserved seat but whose application is pending before the Scrutiny Committee on 10.07.2023, the date of commencement of the Temporary Extension Act, 2023. It is only to those persons the benefit of submission of the Validity Certificate within twelve months from 10.07.2023 is made available. According to them, it is only that person’s election which may have been terminated or deemed to have been terminated for not submitting the Validity Certificate would be protected by the deeming provisions which enabled the individual to continue to be a Member or Sarpanch. They further contended that the impugned warrants no interference as it has been rightly held that on account of the conduct of the Appellant No. 1 in not furnishing the declaration as undertaken and as required, he is deemed to be automatically disqualified with retrospective effect from the date of his election. Since the No Confidence Motion was carried with eight Members out of ten, who were entitled to sit and vote, the rejection of No Confidence Motion was illegal. Discussion and findings: 29. Sections 3 and 4 of the Temporary Extension Act, 2023 read as under:- “3. (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in sections 10-1A and 30-1A of the Maharashtra Village Panchayats Act and sections 12A, 42 and 67 of the Maharashtra Zilla Parishads and Panchayat Samitis Act, 1961, for contesting General or bye-elections to the Village Panchayats, Zilla Parishads and Panchayat Samitis which were held on or after 1st January 2021 and till the date of commencement of this Act,— [2024] 2 S.C.R. 185 Sudhir Vilas Kalel & Ors. v. Bapu Rajaram Kalel & Ors. (a) a person, who has applied to the Scrutiny Committee for verification of his Caste Certificate before the date of filing of the nomination papers and who is elected on the reserved seat of a member or Sarpanch of Village Panchayat, Councillor or President of Zilla Parishad or member or Chairman of Panchayat Samiti, but whose application is pending before the Scrutiny Committee on the date of commencement of this Act, shall submit his Validity Certificate within a period of twelve months from the date of commencement of this Act ; And (b) a person, whose election has been terminated or deemed to have been terminated or a person who is disqualified for being a member or Sarpanch of Village Panchayat, Councillor or President of Zilla Parishad or member or Chairman of Panchayat Samiti for not submitting the Validity Certificate within the period specified in sections mentioned above, shall be deemed to be and shall continue to be a member or Sarpanch of Village Panchayat, Councillor or President of Zilla Parishad or member or Chairman of Panchayat Samiti, as the case may be, and shall not be disqualified till the period of twelve months from the date of commencement of this Act for not submitting the Validity Certificate: Provided that, if such person fails to produce the Validity Certificate within a period of twelve months from the date of commencement of this Act, his election shall be deemed to have been terminated retrospectively and he shall be disqualified for being a member or Sarpanch of Village Panchayat, Councillor or President of Zilla Parishad or member or Chairman of Panchayat Samiti.