At any rate, the First Appellate Court did not set it aside. At the same time, it may be possible to infer from the following recital from paragraph 17 of the of the First Appellate Court that it held the finding of the Trial Court that sale of suit land by Sitaram in favour of the plaintiff did not confer any title to the plaintiff as not one in accordance with law: - “……But the Trial Court had treated the suit property as Joint Hindu Family property and has further held that sale of the suit land by the Sitaram in favour of the plaintiff does not confer any title on the plaintiff which finding is not in accordance with law.” 29. In the contextual situation, especially with reference to the observation and finding of the Trial Court on the ground of minority at the time of purchase of suit land, be it that of Sitaram or plaintiff, we think it only appropriate to observe and hold thus, in the fitness of things: - Section 6(h) of the Transfer of Property Act provides inter alia, that no transfer can be made “to a person legally disqualified to be a transferee.” Section 7 of the Transfer of Property Act deals with persons competent to transfer. It provides that every person competent to contract is competent to transfer property to the extent and in the manner allowed and prescribed by any law for the time being in force. Section 11 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872, provides as to who are competent to contract and it provides that every person is competent to contract who is of the age of majority according to the law to which he is subject (of course the reference is to the Indian Majority Act, 1875) and who is of sound mind and is not disqualified from contracting by any law to which he is subject. 30. Though an agreement to sell is a contract of sale, going by its definition under Section 54 of the Transfer of Property Act, a sale cannot be said to be a contract. Sale, going by the definition thereunder, is a transfer of ownership in exchange for a price paid or promised or part-paid and part-promised. The conjoint reading of all the aforesaid relevant provisions would undoubtedly go to show that they would not come in the way of transfer of an immovable property in favour of a minor or in other words, they would invariably suggest that a minor can be a transferee though not a transferor of immovable property. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 727 Neelam Gupta & Ors. v. Rajendra Kumar Gupta & Anr. In such circumstances, it can only be said that Sh. Sitaram had no legal disability or disqualification at the time of purchase of suit land on 15.03.1963 in his name as also the plaintiff, as a transferee, at the time of execution of Ext.P1/C - sale deed on 04.06.1968. It is nobody’s case that at the time of execution of Ext.P1/C Sitaram had not attained majority.