32. The majority, as is evident from the above, holds that a female who is single at the time of partition holds the property received in partition as tharwad by way of her being a single member thavazhi, thereby securing the right of persons who may become a member thereof either by way of adoption or birth in future. Per contra, the minority holds that if at the time of partition the female is single, she continues to hold the property as her own, even if she has children in the future. This is for the reason that partition, by its very essence, alters the nature of the property from, at one point being jointly held property or tharwad to a property held solely by her. 33. Having given anxious consideration to both views, we conclude that the minority has, in fact, understood the position correctly. Partition is an act by which the nature of the property is changed, reflecting an alteration in ownership. At this juncture, we may take note of how the word partition is defined: "- to divide into parts or shares - to divide (a place, such as a country) into two or more territorial units having separate political status7 …. 7 https://www.merriam-webster.com [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1031 Ramachandran & Ors. v. Vijayan & Ors. 1. a division into parts; separation 2. something that separates, such as a large screen dividing a room in two 3. a part or share 4. a division of a country into two or more separate nations 5. property law a division of property, esp realty, among joint owners.8” 34. The Advanced Law Lexicon, Third Edition defines partition in the following terms: “Partition is a division between co-owners (whether coparceners, joint-tenants in common) of lands, tenements and heriditaments held by them, the effect of such division being that the joint ownership is terminated, and the shares of the parties vested in them in severalty; [in mitakshara law, it] is the adjustment of diverse rights regarding the whole by distributing them on particular portions of the aggregate. Is a separation between joint owners or tenants in common of their respective interests in land, and setting apart such interest, so that they may enjoy and possess the same in severalty.” The Hindu Succession Act, 1956 in the explanation to Section 6 provides that a partition is a partition in terms of this Law if it is made by way of a partition deed recognised under the Registration Act, 1908 or by a decree of Court. 35. It may be that a parcel of land for instance, may at one time, be owned by fourteen people but after partition is affected between them, with two people wanting no longer to be associated, the size of the land owned alongside the number of persons registered as owners both being reduced. What flows from this instance is that the two persons who separated from this collection of fourteen are now 8 https://www.collinsdictionary.com 1032 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports sole owners of their respective portions - the nature of the ownership being changed from joint to single.