16. That in this way, the Accused persons have ignored the first informant due to their dowry demand and they have even not returned the first informant her stridhan and are threatening that if without fulfilling their demand of dowry, the first informant comes to their house, they will kill her. Thus, by giving this complaint, a request is being made to take immediate action against the accused persons for demanding dowry, giving beatings and threatening me to kill and my stridhan be recovered from the accused persons. It will be so kind of you.” 4. The plain reading of the aforesaid FIR would indicate that the Appellant and his family members are alleged to have demanded dowry and thereby caused mental and physical trauma to the First Informant. As stated in the FIR, the family of the First Informant had spent a large sum at the time of marriage and had also handed over her ‘stridhan’ to the Appellant and his family. However, shortly 140 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports after marriage, the Appellant and his family started harassing the First Informant on the false pretext that she had failed to discharge her duties as a wife and daughter-in-law and also pressurised her for some more dowry. The Appellant is alleged to be an alcoholic and used to regularly raise his hands on the First Informant and treat her inhumanely. Allegedly, upon complaining to the Appellant’s father and mother (Accused Nos. 2 & 3 in the FIR), they would take the side of their son i.e., the Appellant herein and would pressurize the First Informant to get something more towards dowry. 5. The First Informant has further alleged that her sister-in-law (Accused No. 4 in the FIR) used to harass her for a diamond set & would threaten that failing to get one, she would be driven out of her matrimonial home. 6. The First Informant was serving as an Assistant Professor and has alleged that the Appellant and his family would keep her entire salary. The Appellant would assault her whenever she would ask for money, saying that the First Informant should ask her family to bear her personal expenses. 7. It is also alleged that the Appellant was having an extra marital affair with one another woman, and he would threaten the First Informant with dire consequences had she told anyone of his affair. The Appellant continued with the extra marital affair for a long period & later filed a divorce petition in July 2019 on absolutely false and baseless grounds. 8. It is further alleged that during the initial days of the Covid-19 lockdown, the Appellant disconnected the water supply at their matrimonial home and took away their minor son. In such circumstances, the First Informant was left with no option but to leave her matrimonial home and return to her parents. Efforts were made for some settlement however the Appellant and his family kept on insisting for more dowry and also refused to return her stridhan.