Subsequently, the FAA dated 28.02.2020 was entered into between the AMP Group and JRS Group. The terms of the FAA impose several obligations on the AMP and JRS Groups in pursuance of the settlement contemplated therein. 12. It is pertinent to observe that the present petition relates primarily to the dispute arising from specific clauses wherein the SRG Group is also required to undertake certain steps and actions specified viz, (a) Clause 2.1.4 read with Schedule 7 on Millenium Exit (presently AMP Group holds 36% while SRG Group holds 40%) where AMP Group is required to exit and SRG Group is required to purchase additional shares; (b) Clause 2.1.5 requiring Amendment of Lease Deed executed between Millenium, the Lessor and Aurosagar Estates Pvt. Ltd. (hereinafter, “Aurosagar”), the Lessee and; 904 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (c) Clause 2.1.6 read with Schedule 8 on Deegee Exit where JRS and SRG Groups are required to completely exit and AMP Group would purchase the shares. The relevant clauses of the FAA are reproduced hereinbelow: “2.1.4 Exit of AMP Group from Millenium (a) Within 30 (thirty) days from the Trigger Date(“Millenium Transfer Date”), Parties shall execute duly stamped agreement(s) with SRG to record and finalize their understanding with respect to exit of AMP Group from Millenium by way of transfer/ buy back of all Class A equity shares in Millenium (“Millenium Exit”) in the manner set out in Schedule 7. The Parties agree that the valuation of Millenium for the purposes of the Millenium Exit shall be INR 130,00,00,000 (Rupees One Hundred Thirty Crores). It is hereby clarified that AMP Group will continue to hold Class B equity shares in Millenium in accordance with the provisions set out in the articles of association of Millenium. (b) Notwithstanding anything contained herein, Parties shall endeavour to simultaneously undertake the Millenium Exit and Deegee Exit on the same day in accordance with Clause 2.1.4 and Clause 2.1.6, respectively. (c) Parties shall co-operate with each other for any actions required to be undertaken or documents required to be executed in to give effect to the actions contemplated under this Clause, including but not limited to passing exercising their voting rights to provide necessary board or shareholders’ approval, execution and stamping of share transfer forms, endorsement of share certificates, filing forms with the registrar of companies, making entries in statutory registers, providing all necessary information and documents necessary for preparing necessary documents, etc required to be complied by Millenium under Applicable Law. [2024] 9 S.C.R. 905 Ajay Madhusudan Patel & Ors. v. Jyotrindra S. Patel & Ors. 2.1.5 Amendment of Aurosagar Lease Deed (a) On the Millenium Transfer Date, Aurosagar and Millenium shall execute a duly stamped amendment deed to the Aurosagar Lease Deed in the format set out in Annexure 1. (b) Parties shall co-operate with each other for any and all such actions required to be undertaken and execute all such documents as may be necessary in to give effect to this Clause (Including registration of the amendment deed), including but not limited to exercising their voting rights to provide necessary board or shareholders’ approval, attending office of registrar of assurance for admitting the amendment deed, providing all necessary information and documents necessary for preparing necessary documents, etc.