Consequently, the acquisition process would be liable to be hammered. 1024 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 39. However, it is essentially a question fact as to whether or not an advance notice of hearing has been served upon an “objector”. Where the Collector has taken a specific stand that notices were duly served upon the persons concerned and the record of service of such notices has been duly maintained, the statutory presumption inscribed under Section 114 of the Evidence Act shall be drawn, which inter alia provides that the Court may presume the existence of facts, including “that judicial and official acts have been regularly performed”. 40. The rule of statutory presumption is a well-rooted principle in Common Law and founded upon the dictum ‘omnia praesumuntur rite esse acta’, namely, that the act can be presumed to have been rightly and regularly done. The Court would presume that the official act was done rightly and effectively and the burden to prove contrary lies on the party who disputes the sanctity of such act. The High Court unfortunately misconstrued this legal proposition while observing that there should be a presumption regarding notices not being served on the respondents. 41. The onus thus lay on the landowners to demonstrate that the issuance or service of notices was inefficacious. The official record suggests that several landowners were present at the hearings on 25.04.2014 and 05.06.2014, and the proceedings were further postponed at their request. Had the notices not been served, these landowners could not have been aware of the date of hearing or attended such proceedings. Given their presence at the time of hearings, it can be safely inferred that they were duly served. The burden to prove otherwise on the respondents, which they have failed to discharge. 42. In the absence of any allegation of mala fide exercise of power, the vague and overly broad claim of being unaware of the acquisition proceedings taken by the respondents during the course of hearing cannot be countenanced. This is especially noteworthy that only a small fraction of landowners have contested the acquisition, with nearly 90% not objecting to the proceedings. We are thus satisfied that the proceedings carried out under Section 5A ought not to have been set at nought on this ground. 43. We may also hasten to add that even where the notices were not served as per the procedure known in law, that by itself may not vitiate the acquisition proceedings unless it is shown that severe [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1025 New Okhla Industrial Development Authority v. Darshan Lal Bohra & Ors. prejudice was caused to the landowners. This Court, in Tej Kaur v. State of Punjab,22 viewed that even when there was no material to show that the landowner was heard, it would not invalidate the acquisition proceedings because the objections were duly considered: “6. It is true that Section 5-A inquiry is an important stage in the acquisition proceedings and a person who is aware of Section 4(1) notification can raise objection to the effect that his property is not required for acquisition and he is also at liberty to raise the contention that the property is not required for any public purpose.