It is to be noted that the hammer was recovered from a place which is open and accessible to one and all. It is improbable that a hammer which was soaked in water for 3 days would still retain the blood-stains. It is to be noted that the investigating agency had to take the service of two swimmers to take the bag out from the canal. The evidence of Santosh Bhau Awaghade (PW-11) who is a panch witness would show that when the police along with the appellant reached the spot, two persons were already there and they were searching as per the say of the police party. It is thus clear that the place where the accused had taken the police party to show where he had concealed the incriminating article was already within the knowledge of the police. It is also difficult to believe that, in flowing water where two swimmers were required to find out the incriminating material, the said article would remain at the same place after 3 days. We therefore find that it cannot be said that the prosecution has proved the said circumstance beyond reasonable doubt. 26. Insofar as the circumstance regarding the recovery of the appellant’s clothes is concerned, even according to the prosecution, it is the appellant who had informed the police about the crime and he was present there. As such, the presence of blood-stains on his clothes cannot be said to be unnatural. Again, the recovery is from a place which is open and accessible to one and all. Same is the case with regard to the recovery of jewellery. In any case, the recovery panchnama does not show that the clothes were sealed. As such, the possibility of tampering cannot be ruled out. Insofar as the recovery of jewellery (mangalsutra) is concerned, the said mangalsutra was not shown either to Vijaykumar Kisanrao Sonpetkar (PW-5), father of deceased Archana or to the appellant’s sister so as to identify that the same belong to deceased Archana. 768 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 27. That leaves us with the circumstance of motive. We find that solely on the basis of circumstance of motive, a conviction cannot be based. As held by this Court in the case of Sharad Birdhichand Sharda (supra), a suspicion, however strong it may be, cannot take the place of a proof beyond reasonable doubt. As has been held by this Court in the case of Sharad Birdhichand Sharda (supra), there is not only a grammatical but a legal distinction between “may be proved” and “must be or should be proved”. It is a primary principle that the accused “must be” and not merely “may be” guilty before a court can convict and every possible hypothesis except the guilt of the accused has to be ruled out. In our considered opinion, in the present case, the prosecution has failed to do so. We are therefore of the considered view that the impugned and of the High Court as well as the trial court are not sustainable in law.