When the rule of law is interpreted as a principle of constitutionalism, it assumes a division of governmental powers or functions that inhibits the exercise of arbitrary State power. It also assumes the generality of law: the individual’s protection from arbitrary power consists in the fact that her personal dealings with the State are regulated by general rules, binding on private citizens and public officials alike.” 27. This sentiment was echoed in Rojer Mathew v. South Indian Bank Ltd. & Ors.,17 where this Court held: “If Rule of law is absent, there is no accountability, there is abuse of power and corruption. When the Rule of law disappears, we are ruled not by laws but by the idiosyncrasies and whims of those in power.” 28. Again, earlier this year, in Bilkis Yakub Rasool v. Union of India & Others,18 the concept of the rule of law was discussed in detail. It was held: “Rule of law means wherever and whenever the State fails to perform its duties, the Court would step in to ensure that the Rule of law prevails over the abuse of the process of law. Such abuse may result from, inter alia, inaction or even arbitrary action of protecting the true offenders or failure by different authorities in discharging statutory or other obligations in consonance with the procedural and penal statutes. Breach of the Rule of law, amounts to negation of equality under Article 14 of the Constitution. 17 [2019] 16 SCR 1 : (2020) 6 SCC 1 18 [2024] 1 SCR 743 : (2024) 5 SCC 481 756 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports The concept of Rule of law is closely intertwined with adjudication by courts of law and also with the consequences of decisions taken by courts. Therefore, the judiciary has to carry out its obligations effectively and true to the spirit with which it is sacredly entrusted the task and always in favour of Rule of law. There can be no Rule of law if there is no equality before the law; and Rule of law and equality before the law would be empty words if their violation is not a matter of judicial scrutiny or judicial review and relief and all these features would lose their significance if the courts don’t step in to enforce the Rule of law. Thus, the judiciary is the guardian of the Rule of law and the central pillar of a democratic State. Therefore, the judiciary has to perform its duties and function effectively and remain true to the spirit with which they are sacredly entrusted to it. Further, in a democracy where Rule of law is its essence, it has to be preserved and enforced particularly by courts of law. Compassion and sympathy have no role to play where Rule of law is required to be enforced. If the Rule of law has to be preserved as the essence of democracy, it is the duty of the courts to enforce the same without fear or favour, affection or ill-will.” 29.