The permit system which was introduced as per Article 7 was also brought to an end in 1952 as discussed in the foregoing paragraphs. However, as discussed, both these conditions i.e., the onus of registration as well as the specification of a cut-off date till which such applications could have been made are absent from the very scheme of Section 6A. Seen in the context of temporal unreasonableness, this glaring absence renders the scheme of Section 6A arbitrary and as a result unconstitutional. 213. Justice Surya Kant has emphasized on the importance of distinguishing between the prescribed mechanism under the provisions of Section 6A and its actual implementation. After examining the mechanism prescribed under Section 6A, he has held that when Section 6A is read with the complimentary statutes more particularly, the Foreigners Act, 1946, Passport Act, 1967, IEAA, 1950 and the Foreigners (Tribunals ), 1964, the same is adequate and sufficient to address the issue of illegal immigration into Assam. However, the ultimate conclusion drawn by him is that despite of there being sufficient measures, the problem of illegal immigration has persisted in Assam till this date because of the inadequacies in Section 6A and its faulty implementation. I am of the view, that the inadequate implementation of Section 6A(3) of the Act is inextricably linked to the fallacious mechanism that has been prescribed under it. 214. Justice Surya Kant in paragraph 298 of his , has observed that by virtue of Article 19(1)(e), Section 6A does not compel pre-1971 immigrants to keep residing in the territory of Assam once they have obtained citizenship thereunder. While the aforesaid may be true for the immigrants belonging to the pre-1966 stream who were conferred citizenship automatically, and thus became citizens of India for all purposes from the date of commencement of Section 6A itself, the same does not hold true for the immigrants belonging to the 1966-71 category. I say so, because, in the absence of any temporal limit, within which all immigrants belonging to the 1966-71 category are to be detected, deleted and registered as citizens, the [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1239 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 immigrants of this category are tethered to the territory of Assam, so as to satisfy the criteria of “ordinarily resident in Assam” on the date when they eventually happen to get detected. 215. Lastly, Justice Surya Kant, in paragraph 304, has observed that Section 6A when read along with the larger statutory regime surrounding citizenship and immigration, has mandated timely detection and deportation of illegal immigrants. In my view, although the mandate of timely detection and deportation of illegal immigrants was the fundamental premise on which the Assam Accord was signed, yet, this intention recorded in the Accord, was never translated statutorily, due to a faulty mechanism prescribed under Section 6A(3), either due to inadvertence or advertence of the legislature. 216. Before, I proceed to draw my final conclusion, I must refer to R.W.M. Dias’s “Jurisprudence” Fifth Edition Chapter 15.