[2024] 8 S.C.R. 1679 Pradhan Babu and Others v. Nachimuthu Nagar Kudiyiruppor Nala Sangam and Others It was pointed out that undisputed possession and enjoyment of the suit property, based on registered documents, for over three and a half decades had remained with the appellant(s) concerned and their predecessors-in-title, and they had acquired rights thereupon by way of adverse possession. Thus, the claim made by a newly- formed Society [Respondents no.1 and 2] after 35 years is barred by limitation. 14. It was further submitted that the suit filed by the original plaintiffs/ respondents without seeking the relief of declaration as to title is not maintainable in view of the fact that the suit property is not a public property, but a private property reserved for public purpose whose character has changed over the years. The further contention was that the suit filed by the original plaintiffs/respondents is not with bonafide intention which is evident from the fact that the sangam-society was formed just prior to the filing of the suit and that too without following the requisite procedure. For all these reasons, the learned senior counsel prayed for allowing the appeal and sought setting aside of the Impugned . SUBMISSIONS BY RESPONDENTS NO.1 AND 2/SOCIETY: 15. Learned counsel for the Society began by submitting that there is no question of law, much less, a substantial question of law involved in the present case under Article 1362 of the Constitution of India and therefore the appeal is liable to be dismissed in limine. He submitted that the Trial Court has given a just, fair and cogent based on reliable evidence, which has been affirmed by the High Court, and as such, does not require interference by this Court. 16. It was submitted that the Act provides for planning the development and use of rural and urban land in the State of Tamil Nadu and for purposes connected therewith. The suit property was part of the Housing Layout and it was earmarked for public purpose when the Layout was formed in 1978 or when it was revised in 1981. The 2 ‘136. Special leave to appeal by the Supreme Court.—(1) Notwithstanding anything in this Chapter, the Supreme Court may, in its discretion, grant special leave to appeal from any , decree, determination, sentence or in any cause or matter passed or made by any court or tribunal in the territory of India. (2) Nothing in clause (1) shall apply to any , determination, sentence or passed or made by any court or tribunal constituted by or under any law relating to the Armed Forces.’ 1680 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports land was not acquired as required under the Act and Section 38 of the Act is not applicable to the suit property, submitted learned counsel. 17. It was canvassed that once, as per the Layout Plan, the area is notified as being for public purpose while forming the Layout, the same cannot be converted into personal property. It was contended that the suit property is not acquired by the Government under the Act and therefore the provisions in the Act cannot be invoked in respect of Nachimuthu Nagar.