Hence, he prays for rejection of this appeal. 9. Having heard the learned Counsel representing the State, it would be apposite to note the dated 17.07.2012 passed by this Court. It reads: “Leave granted. In the meanwhile, the parties are directed to maintain status quo in respect of the disputed land, as it is obtaining today. This would necessarily mean that neither party shall change the present character of the property or alienate the same to any other person in any manner whatsoever.” (Emphasis Supplied by us) 10. The writ petitioners who are rustic and illiterate villagers had submitted applications for allotment of land for purposes of house construction in the village Dhodhar, Tehsil Thakurdwara, District Moradabad. Pursuant to the same the writ petitioner’s husband/ father amongst others were allotted 150 sq. yards land each in Gata No. 185 Mi. The said allotment came to be approved by the Sub-District Magistrate on 27.06.1994 and allotment was made in pursuance to the proposal dated 15.05.1994 forwarded by The 292 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Land Management Committee, Rampur, Dhodhar. Hence, the writ petitioners and other allottees have put up construction by putting up residential accommodation and have been residing therein with their family members. However, after a period of 13 years namely on 13.06.2007 the Lekhpal submitted a report for cancellation of such allotment on the ground that the land allotted to the writ petitioners and other allottees were classified as Panchayat Ghar and as per Section 132 of UPZALR Act the same could not have been allotted to the writ petitioners. Based on the said report, Tehsildar, on 18.06.2007 forwarded a report to the Sub-District Magistrate, proposing thereunder to initiate proceedings and recommended for cancellation of the allotment. Hence, the proceedings for cancellation of the allotment came to be initiated by issuance of show cause notice dated 05.07.2007 to all the allottees. 11. Thus, it emerges from the afore-stated facts that the authorities initiated the proceedings for cancellation of the allotment initially based on the report dated 13.06.2007 of the Lekhpal which was undisputedly after 13 years from the date of allotment. It is no doubt true that there is no limitation fixed for initiation of the proceedings under the UPZALR Act as contended by the learned Counsel for the Respondents. This Court in Additional Commssioner, Revenue and Others v. Akhalaq Hussain and Another, (2020) 4 SCC 507 vide paragraph 28 has held that sub-section (6) of Section 122C empowers the collector to enquire with regard to the manner of allotment being irregular and may proceed to cancel the allotment if he satisfies that such allotment is irregular. Section 122C (6) reads as under: “122C (6) The Collector may of his own motion and shall on the application of any person aggrieved by an allotment of land under this section inquire in the manner prescribed into such allotment, and if he is satisfied that the allotment is irregular, he may cancel the allotment, and thereupon the right, title and interest of the allottee and of every other person claiming through him in the land allotted shall cease.” 12.