393 Fertilizer Corporation of India Limited & Ors. v. M/s Coromandal Sacks Private Limited of Article 300A of the Constitution of India as submitted on behalf of the unsecured creditors. 65. In view of the above and for the reasons stated above, the view taken by the High Court of Delhi in Continental Carbon India Ltd. (supra) that on approval of a scheme by the BIFR under the Sick Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Act, 1985, the unsecured creditors has an option not to accept the scaling down value of its dues and to wait till the rehabilitation scheme of the sick company has worked itself out with an option to recover the debt with interest post such rehabilitation is erroneous and contrary to the scheme of SICA, 1985 and the same deserves to be quashed and set aside and is accordingly quashed and set aside.” (Emphasis supplied) 130. It is clear from the aforesaid observations of this Court that the revival of a sick industry should be given utmost priority and any interpretation which may result in a newly revived company becoming sick again should be avoided at all costs. In the case on hand, the decree in favour of the original plaintiff was not a part of the scheme of rehabilitation approved by the BIFR. Had it been so, it is nothing but obvious that the scheme would have proposed to settle the dues of the original plaintiff at a scaled down value, since a similar approach was adopted in the scheme to settle the dues of all the other creditors. In that scenario, the original plaintiff would not have had any other option but to accept the scaled down value and settle its dues as per the dictum in Modi Rubber (supra). 131. The decree awarded by the trial court was contested by both the parties before the High Court. No material was placed before us to show whether any steps were taken by the original plaintiff to obtain the permission of the BIFR for the execution of the decree of the trial court, or for the inclusion of the said decree in the rehabilitation scheme. At the same time, the original defendants too failed to bring anything on record to show if any steps were taken by them for the inclusion of the dues of the original plaintiff in the rehabilitation scheme. 132. Although the facts of the case on hand are different from the facts in Modi Rubber (supra), we are of the opinion that the general principles 394 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports enunciated in that case are equally applicable in the present case. Thus, only for the reason that the dues of the original plaintiff were not a part of the scheme and thus could not be settled at a scaled- down value, it cannot be held that it will now be open for the original plaintiff to recover its dues along with compound interest for the entire period in a manner that will saddle the defendant company with enormous liability, thereby possibly rendering the entire process of its revival futile.