Digital Supreme Court Reports 2.8 As per this agreement to sell, the sale deed was to be executed and registered within one month i.e. up to 16.01.1990. It is interesting to note that agreement to sell also incorporated a clause at the end of the document stating that the said agreement would be valid for five years. Since the sale deed was not executed, the respondents instituted a suit for specific performance of the contract in September, 1993. 2.9 The affidavit filed along with the plaint was sworn and attested on 13.09.1993. 3. The appellants filed a written statement denying the plaint allegations. 3.1 According to the defendants, the said agreement to sell was a forged and fabricated document and did not bear the signatures of their father, Bihari Lal, who had since died in 1990. 3.2 The appellants further alleged that the suit was barred by limitation inasmuch as it was filed beyond the period of three years from the date of performance of the sale deed as per the agreement. 3.3 Various other issues were raised which we may not enter into, as primarily, it is the issue of limitation which will decide this appeal. 4. Based on the pleadings, the Trial Court framed the following issues: a) Is the suit as framed maintainable? b) Have the plaintiffs got any valid cause of action of the suit? c) Is the suit barred by limitation? d) Is the suit bad due to non-joinder of necessary parties? e) Whether so-called agreements were done between the plaintiffs and late Bihari Lal, husband of defendant No. 1 and whether those agreements are binding on Defendant Nos. 1,2,4 and 5? f) Are the alleged agreements forged, fabricated and concocted, which do not bear the signature of Bihari Lal? g) Whether at the time of agreement, Bihari Lal was the absolute owner in possession of the suit property or whether the suit property was joint? [2024] 8 S.C.R. 505 Usha Devi & Ors. v. Ram Kumar Singh & Ors. h) Is Ashok Kumar-defendant No.3 is the adopted son of Bihari Lal or the son of Shivlal and whether he has the right to contest this suit? i) Whether the plaintiffs are entitled to the reliefs sought in the plaint and other reliefs?” 5. Both parties led evidence. The Trial Court, vide dated 13.06.2004, dismissed the suit with costs. All the issues except the issue nos. 1, 2 and 3 were decided in favour of the plaintiffs. Insofar as issue no.3 is concerned it was held that the suit was barred by limitation. 6. The plaintiffs-respondents preferred an appeal registered as Title Appeal No. 50 of 2004. The said appeal came to be allowed, vide dated 03.09.2005, and the suit was decreed. The defendants were directed to execute and register the sale deed as per the terms and conditions of the agreement dated 17.12.1989, after receiving the balance consideration within 30 days. 7. Aggrieved by the same, the defendants-appellants preferred a second appeal before the High Court, which has since been dismissed by the impugned , giving rise to the present appeal.