The process of judicial appointments to a superior court is not the prerogative of a single individual. Instead, it is a collaborative and participatory process involving all Collegium members. The underlying principle is that the process of appointment of judges must reflect the collective wisdom that draws from diverse perspectives. Such a process ensures that principles of transparency and accountability are maintained. 162 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 19. Mr. Datar, the learned Senior Counsel earnestly submitted that the Chief Justice of a High Court individually cannot reconsider a recommendation. To appreciate the legal basis for such a contention, we may refer to the following s discussed below. 20. This Court in the Second Judges case (supra) noted as under: “468. The rule of law envisages the area of discretion to be the minimum, requiring only the application of known principles or guidelines to ensure non-arbitrariness, but to that limited extent, discretion is a pragmatic need. Conferring discretion upon high functionaries and, whenever feasible, introducing the element of plurality by requiring a collective decision, are further checks against arbitrariness. This is how idealism and pragmatism are reconciled and integrated, to make the system workable in a satisfactory manner.” 21. Again, in the Third Judges case (supra), it was observed that “the element of plurality of judges in formation of the opinion of the Chief Justice of India, effective consultation in writing and prevailing norms to regulate the area of discretion are sufficient checks against arbitrariness.” 22. Mr. Datar placed reliance on the following passage from the decision in Mahesh Chandra (supra) to buttress his submission: “73. The concept of plurality of Judges in the formation of the opinion of the Chief Justice of India is one of inbuilt checks against the likelihood of arbitrariness or bias. At this stage, we reiterate that “lack of eligibility” as also “lack of effective consultation” would certainly fall in the realm of judicial review. However, when we are earmarking a joint venture process as a participatory consultative process, the primary aim of which is to reach an agreed decision, one cannot term the Supreme Court Collegium as superior to High Court Collegium. The Supreme Court Collegium does not sit in appeal over the recommendation of the High Court Collegium. Each Collegium constitutes a participant in the participatory consultative process. The concept of primacy and plurality is in effect primacy of the opinion of the Chief Justice of [2024] 9 S.C.R. 163 Chirag Bhanu Singh & Anr. v. High Court of Himachal Pradesh & Ors. India formed collectively. The discharge of the assigned role by each functionary helps to transcend the concept of primacy between them.” 23. What was emphasized above is that collaborative deliberations bring in transparency in the process, as decisions are deliberated, debated, and recorded. This contributes to public trust in the judiciary, as it demonstrates that appointments are being made based on thorough consideration. 24. Tracing the departure in the process of appointment of judges pre and post-1990 after the emergence of the Collegium system, a legal Scholar14 notes that the Second Judges case (supra) effectively ended the ‘primacy’ or the ‘preponderating voice’ of the Chief Justice over senior colleagues.