The Council could not have circumvented the aforesaid mandatory safeguards by resorting to power under Section 15, especially when creating penal consequences. Reliance in this regard was placed on Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai vs. Anil Shantaram Khoje, (2016) 15 SCC 726, (“MCGM”) to contend that a regulation comes into operation only after promulgation in the official gazette. 4.15 Furthermore, learned senior counsel Sri Preetesh Kapur submitted that a restriction of this nature, to be found good in law, must have a legitimate nexus to the object sought and also, necessarily satisfy the proportionality test elucidated by this Court in Modern Dental College and Research Centre 812 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports vs. State of Madhya Pradesh, (2016) 7 SCC 353, (“Modern Dental College and Research Centre”). Learned counsel contended that where a fundamental right of an individual is abridged, justification of the restriction needs more than mere demonstration of power; that the aforesaid position forms a part of our jurisprudence. 4.16 Learned senior counsel elucidated that a significant effect of the present restriction would be that a structural advantage is accrued to partnership firms over sole practitioners as a partnership firm of Chartered Accountants will be able to take up more multiples of tax audits than an individual practitioner permissibly can under the Guidelines. Learned counsel contended that a Chartered Accountant has a fundamental right to carry out tax audit, guaranteed under Article 19(1)(g) and such a right could not be bartered away to colleagues in a partnership firm. 4.17 Learned senior counsel also argued that the impugned Guideline is hit from the vice of excessive delegation as a resolution, by itself, could not penalize as misconduct for taking on more clients. Also, reliance was placed on V. Sasidharan vs. Peter and Karunakar, (1984) 4 SCC 230, (“V. Sasidharan”) wherein this Court had held that the office of a lawyer is not a commercial establishment under the Shop & Establishments Act, 1968 (Kerala Act). Relying on the aforesaid, it was contended by learned counsel that a technical profession stands on a different footing to other professions and while a prescription for technical qualification would be a reasonable restriction under Article 19(6), any other restriction on a profession must be carefully construed. 4.18 It was argued by learned senior counsel Sri Singh that professions have existed even before the Constitution came into being. Prior to the enforcement of the Constitution, an attempt to move a legislation to restrict the practice of a profession was subject to seeking the assent of Governor-General, in case of Federal Legislature, and the Governor in case of provincial legislature. Importantly, the Governor-General could not have given sanction, if a legislation was framed to restrict lawful practice of the profession, except in ‘public interest’. As per [2024] 6 S.C.R. 813 Shaji Poulose v. Institute of Chartered Accountants of India & Others learned counsel, the position could not have been said to be worse off after the coming into force of our Constitution, i.e. after repeal of the Government of India Act, 1935.