639 Jalaluddin Khan v. Union of India 6. Regarding giving the first floor of the building on rent, the prosecution’s case is that though the land and the building stand in the name of the appellant’s wife, she is merely a name lender. The appellant purchased the property on 19th April 2005 for the consideration of Rs. 1,25,000/-. In the counter, the respondent has relied upon the appellant’s disclosure /confessional statement. Whether such a statement is admissible in evidence or not is another thing. In the statement of the appellant relied upon by the respondent, it is stated that accused no.1, Athar Parvez, met his elder son – Aamir Jalal Khan, in April 2022 and discussed renting the first floor of the building to him. The appellant’s elder son – Aamir Jalal Khan, quoted rent of Rs 25,000/- per month. After that, there were negotiations, and finally, the rent was fixed at Rs. 16,000 per month. Accused no.1 gave Aamir Jalal Khan an advance of Rs. 5,000/-. Thereafter, a sum of Rs. 25,000/- was transferred by accused no.1 to the account of Aamir Jalal Khan and the remaining amount of Rs. 2,000/- was paid at the time of execution of the lease. In the appellant’s statement, it is stated that this amount of Rs. 32,000/- was paid as advance rent for two months. In the statement, the appellant stated that accused no.1 gave him information about the PFI organisation. The appellant stated that people from Bihar and other States used to visit the premises taken on rent by accused no.1. He stated that as he suspected that there would be a police raid, he removed items kept on the first floor premises, like gas cylinders, etc. Even the statement of accused no.1 relied upon in the counter gives the same facts. Thus, the material on record, including the so-called discovery statement of the appellant and co-accused, shows that the premises on the first floor of the building Ahmad Palace were let out to accused no.1, who agreed to pay rent of Rs. 16,000/- per month and gave an advance of Rs. 32,000/- towards rent for two months. We may note here that, assuming that the appellant knew that co-accused Athar Parvez was associated with PFI, it is not listed as a terrorist organisation within the meaning of Section 2(m) of UAPA. Moreover, the charge sheet does not contain any material to show any connection of the appellant with PFI before letting out first floor premises to accused no.1. 7. About the sum of Rs. 25,000/- received by the appellant’s son in his account, there is an explanation in the so-called discovery statement of the appellant relied upon by the respondent. Therefore, what is brought on record is that after the appellant’s son negotiated with 640 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports accused no.1, the premises on the first floor were let out to accused no.1 at the monthly rent of Rs. 16,000/- per month, and the amount received by appellant’s son in his account was towards the part payment of the advance of rent for two months.