9.1.17 Speaking about Entry 8 – List II, it was observed that this Entry talks about “intoxicating liquors” and further it refers to production, manufacture, possession, transport, purchase and sale of “intoxicating liquors”. From the scheme of Entries in the three Lists, it is clear that taxing Entries have been specifically enacted conferring powers of taxation whereas other Entries pertain to the authority of the Legislature to enact laws for purposes of regulation. That the declaration is made by the Parliament and this industry, i.e., industry based on fermentation and alcohol has been declared to be an industry under the IDRA and, therefore, is directly under the control of the Centre, and in respect of regulation the authority of the State Legislature in Entry 8 - List II could only be subject to the IDRA or Rules made thereunder by the Centre. 9.1.18 It was observed that high concentration of ethyl alcohol which is a product of distillation after fermentation is extracted in various concentrations and can also be extracted in a very high concentration above 90 per cent which is generally termed as rectified spirit. It is used as raw material for various industries. It is often supplied after being mixed with methylated alcohol or being denatured by other processes only to safeguard against its use for conversion into alcoholic beverages for human consumption. Ethyl alcohol is diluted by water and its percentage is brought to 40 or 45 or below then it becomes fit for human consumption. 9.1.19 The contention of the States was that various duties for purposes of regulation were imposed to prevent 2084 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the conversion of rectified spirit or methylated alcohol to be diverted from industrial to potable use. In other words, the contention was that these levies had been imposed in to prevent the conversion of alcoholic liquors which are not fit for human consumption to those which are fit for human consumption. Therefore, the levies could be justified as regulatory fees. 9.1.20 The said contention was repelled and it was concluded that Entry 8 – List II could not be invoked to justify the levy by the State in respect of alcoholic liquors which are not made for human consumption. Thus, the Court held that alcoholic liquors which are made for human consumption would not include alcoholic liquors not made for human consumption or “industrial alcohol”. Synthetics and Chemicals (2J): 9.2 In State of U.P. vs. Synthetics and Chemicals Ltd. (1991) 4 SCC 139 (“Synthetics and Chemicals (2J)”), a two-Judge Bench of this Court (speaking through Sahai J. who also wrote the concurring along with Thommen, J.) observed that the High Court relied upon the observations in paragraph 86 of the of the Constitution Bench in Synthetics and Chemicals (7J), namely, “sales tax cannot be charged on “industrial alcohol” and, therefore, held that due to operation of the Ethyl Alcohol (Price Control) s, sales tax cannot be charged by the State on “industrial alcohol” and struck down the levy.