In other words, there is both a subjective interpretation and an objective interpretation. The subjective interpretation would be to find out what was in the minds of the framers of the Constitution while incorporating a particular provision. This method, though helpful in getting to the meaning, will alone not help us. The reason is again explained by A. Barak: “The purpose of the constitutional text is to provide a solid foundation for national existence. It is to embody the basic aspirations of the people. It is to guide future generations by its basic choices. It is to control majorities and protect 7 Aharon Barak, Hermeneutics and Constitution Interpretation, 14 cardOzO l. rev. 767 (1992-93), Pg. 772. 8 Hunter v. Southam Inc (1984) 2 S.C.R 145, Pg. 156. Also see, aharOn Barak, PurPOsive interPretatiOn in law, Pgs. 370-371. 268 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports individual dignity and liberty. All these purposes cannot be fulfilled if the only guide to interpretation is the subjective purposes of the framers of the constitutional text. The constitution will not achieve its purposes if its vision is restricted to the horizons of its founding fathers. Even if we assume the broadest generalizations of subjective purpose, this may not suffice. It may not provide a solid foundation for modern national existence. It may be foreign to the basic aspirations of modern people. It may not be consistent with the dignity and liberty of the modern human being. A constitution must be wiser than its creators”.9 Subjective interpretation alone will not give us the full picture and we have to look at the objective purpose for bringing certain provisions in the Constitution. Thus, in our interpretation of the Constitution both subjective and objective purpose is important. “The objective purpose of a constitution is the interests, goals, values, aims, policies, and function that the constitutional text is designed to actualize in a democracy. A democratic legal system’s values and principles shape the objective purpose of its constitution”.10 What was it that the Constitution sought to achieve. What are the foundations on which it stands. What is its purpose and what are its essential values. The debates of the Constituent Assembly will shed some light on why and for what purpose certain provisions were incorporated in our Constitution. But for this we have to first understand what kind of a society, socially and economically, were we to build and what kind of Constitution we thought would best build that society. 8. The earliest indication of what the Constitution of free India was going to be, can be seen in the Karachi Resolution of the Indian National Congress, adopted in the year 1931, which was read in detail before us by Sri Rakesh Dwivedi, Senior Advocate representing State of West Bengal. Many of the provisions which later came to be incorporated in Part III & IV of the Constitution can be traced 9 Aharon Barak, Hermeneutics and Constitution Interpretation, 14 cardOzO l. rev. 767, (1992-93), Pg. 772. 10 aharOn Barak, PurPOsive interPretatiOn in law (Universal Law Publishing Co., 2007), Pg.