When a mining lease is granted, the lease holder necessarily has to occupy the surface rights of the area specified in the lease. Resultantly, the leaseholder has rights to both the minerals and surface during the subsistence of the mining lease. 324. We do not agree with the respondent’s submission that the mineral rights are transferred from the State to the mining lessee only upon the extraction of minerals. Once the lease deed is signed, the interest in the minerals is transferred from the State Government (in case the 392 Sri Tarkeshwar Sio Thakur Jiu (supra) [15] [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1739 Mineral Area Development Authority & Anr. v. M/s Steel Authority of India & Anr. Etc. minerals vest in the State Government) to the lessee. The interest of the lessee in the minerals continues until the determination of the lease deed. It is only upon the exercise of mineral rights by the lessee, that is removal or consumption of minerals, that the lessee is required to pay royalty. Thus, the transfer of interest in the minerals is distinct from the exercise of the mineral rights. In view of the above discussion, it is clear that minerals are “decoupled” from land only upon the exercise of mineral rights by the lessee. b. Minerals as measure of tax on land 325. Entry 49 of List II enumerates taxes on lands and buildings in the legislative field of the State legislatures. As mentioned in the above segments, the word “lands” is a comprehensive term which includes mineral bearing land. If the State can tax mineral bearing land, the concomitant issue pertains to the measure of the tax. One of the arguments which directly or indirectly flows from the respondents is that since royalty is measured on the basis of the quantity of minerals produced or mineral value, the State cannot be allowed to use minerals produced as the measure to tax mineral-bearing land. 326. To understand the practice of valuation of mineral-bearing land, a reference to the English law is useful. In England, a rate has been historically assessed on the occupier of lands for beneficial occupation. Rating is a tax on the occupation of lands and is levied on the basis of the value of the occupation of the hereditament (the single unit of rateable property).393 The standard or the measure is the means of finding out the value of the occupation for the purposes of assessment.394 The rateable value of hereditaments is statutorily determined as the amount equal to the rent at which it is estimated that the hereditament might reasonably be expected to let from year to year. The object is to ascertain the rent which might reasonably be expected for the hereditament on a statutory basis.395 In case of mineral hereditaments, royalty payment constitutes evidence of rental value for rating purposes.396 Mineral royalties are regarded as rents for the purpose of assessing mineral hereditaments. 393 Peter Brown and Patrick Bond, ‘Rating Valuation: Principles and Practice) (3rd edn, Elsevier) 13.