37. Further, the claim of the prosecution regarding the dubious character of Ram Niranjan Chaudhary (A-6) and that he encouraged Brij Bihari Prasad to go outside his hospital room for a walk is not directly implicatory. Rather, it is an assumption requiring substantial evidence to be established. It only expresses doubt about Ram Niranjan Chaudhary (A-6), an insider who could have given information. 38. To prove the charge of conspiracy, the prosecution further relied upon the telephone records of Mokama landline number 32772, which was supposedly subscribed to by Suraj Bhan Singh (A-1). The telephone records indicate calls made from Mokama landline number 32772 to Shashi Kumar Rai (A-7), Sunil Singh (A-5) (since deceased) and Munna Shuka (A-8). The prosecution relied on the report dated 29.10.1999 (Exhibit-1) submitted by Shiya Sharan Ram (PW-2), Sub-Divisional Engineer (Vigilance), Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited, which stated that the landline number was subscribed in the name of one Shrawan Kumar Agrawal but was operational in the house of Suraj Bhan Singh (A-1) at Mokama. However, the said report of Shiya Sharan Ram (PW-2) is based on the physical verification of S.M.M. Rahman, Sub-Divisional Engineer, Barh and Jitan Mehta, Junior Telecom Officer, Hatida, both of whom, have not been examined. Further, Shrawan Kumar Agrawal has also not been examined. The original report prepared by S.M.M. Rahman and Jitan Mehta is also not on record. The prosecution version establishing the landline number as belonging to Suraj Bhan Singh (A-1) hinges on the testimony of M.L. Meena (PW-60), Assistant IO, CBI. However, M.L. Meena (PW-60) accepts in his testimony that [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1341 Rama Devi v. The State of Bihar and Others he did not enter the house to verify the existence of a telephone set. Rather, his entire version is based on his interaction with the step-mother of Suraj Bhan Singh (A-1). The telephone records indicating the exchange of calls between 11.05.1998 and 11.06.1998, as deposed by Rai Singh Khatri (PW-62), do not substantively prove and establish the conspiracy charge in the absence of revelatory and weighty incriminating material. 39. The CBI also relied upon the post-incident celebration held in village Khanjah Ghat on 15.06.1998 at the behest of Vijay Kumar Shukla @ Munna Shukla (A-8). Amod Kumar (PW-11), Sushil Kumar Singh (PW-35) and Pooja (PW-37), who were statedly witnesses to the post-incident celebration turned hostile. The statement of Avadhesh Kumar Singh (PW-36), who did not turn hostile, was recorded one year and two months after the date of occurrence. The prosecution has not placed any material on record to showcase how M.L. Meena, IO, CBI (PW-60) had traced Avadhesh Kumar Singh (PW-36), though Rai Singh Khatri, IO, CBI (PW-62) had stated that M.L. Meena, IO, CBI (PW-60) had got in touch with Avadhesh Kumar Singh (PW-36). The evidence of Avadhesh Kumar Singh (PW-36) and Pooja (PW-37) establishing the presence of Shashi Kumar Rai (A-7), since deceased, in the post-incident celebration is not entirely credible. In any case, Shashi Kumar Rai (A-7) passed away during the pendency of the present appeals.