The presence of motive reinforces the above conclusion. 42. It has been contended before us that the appellant – Perumal Raja @ Perumal had been acquitted in the case arising out of crime No. 204 of 2008 relating to the murder of Rajaram. The passed by the trial court32 has been taken on record as additional evidence. However, we do not find this in any way relevant or negating the prosecution evidence, which we have referred to and elucidated earlier in the prosecution case against the appellant, because the murder trial of Rajaram was primarily based upon an entirely different set of evidence. The evidence we have mentioned in the present case is not relevant and directly connected with the murder of Rajaram. The two occurrences are separate, albeit the appellant – Perumal Raja @ Perumal was accused of the murder of Rajaram and his son Rajini @ Rajinikanth. The murders certainly were committed on two different dates – 23.11.2007 (or thereabout) and 21.04.2008 respectively, approximately five months apart. Except for the fact that the appellant – Perumal Raja @ Perumal was taken into custody during the course of investigation in FIR No. 204 of 2008 for murder of Rajaram and thereupon on 25.04.2008 his disclosure statement (Exhibit P-37) was recorded, there is no connection between the two offences. The conviction of the appellant is, therefore, sustainable in view of the evidence placed on record in the present case. The of acquittal would not qualify as relevant and of evidentiary value so as to acquit the appellant – Perumal Raja @ Perumal in the present case.33 43. Acquittal of the co-accused, as noticed in paragraph 4 above, again is for want of evidence against them. At best, they were found in possession of the articles connected with the crime on the basis of the disclosure statement (Exhibit P-37) dated 25.04.2008 made by the appellant – Perumal Raja @ Perumal. Section 27 of the Evidence 32 Dated 13.06.2017. 33 See §§ 40-43 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872. [2024] 1 S.C.R. 113 PERUMAL RAJA @ PERUMAL v. STATE, REP. BY INSPECTOR OF POLICE Act could not have been applied to the other co-accused for the simple reason that the provision pertains to information that distinctly relates to the discovery of a ‘fact’ that was previously unknown, as opposed to fact already disclosed or known. Once information is given by an accused, the same information cannot be used, even if voluntarily made by a co-accused who is in custody. Section 27 of the Evidence Act does apply to joint disclosures, but this is not one such case.34 This was precisely the reason given by the trial court to acquit the co-accused. Even if Section 8 of the Evidence Act is to apply, it would not have been possible to convict the co-accused. The trial court rightly held other co-accused not guilty. For the same reason, acquittal of co-accused Chella @ Mukundhan, who was earlier absconding, is also of no avail. 44. As far as acquittal of the juvenile is concerned, reference can be made to the provisions of Sections 40 to 43 of the Evidence Act.