70. It was further submitted that after the decision of this Court in the Main Appeals all the parties proceeded to pursue their remedies in accordance with the statutory provisions. The Bank pursued its application under Section 14 of the SARFAESI Act to obtain physical possession of the Secured Asset, the Borrower pursued the S.A. No. 46 of 2022 before the DRT, the petitioner pursued its IA in the aforesaid securitization application and the Subsequent Transferee pursued its suit. None of the parties complained of any contempt for a period of nearly 5-6 months. 71. It was submitted that any passed by a competent judicial authority having jurisdiction to pass such can only be challenged by following the due process and cannot be set-aside under the contempt jurisdiction, thus the present contempt petition is completely misconceived. Similarly, since neither the Bank nor the petitioner sought physical possession of the secured asset in the Main Appeals, it cannot be permitted to now seek the same by expanding the scope of the Main Appeals by way of an MA. In this regard, reliance has been placed on the decision of this Court in Supertech Limited v. Emerald Court Owner Resident Welfare Association & Ors. reported in (2023) 10 SCC 817 to contend that filing of MA is not permissible to expand the scope of SLP or re-litigate the matter. [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1653 Celir LLP v. Mr. Sumati Prasad Bafna & Ors. 72. It was further submitted that since in the Main Appeals, there were no directions passed against the Borrower herein to hand over physical possession, no contempt could be said to have been committed. Similarly, the transfer of the Secured Asset to the Subsequent Transferee during the pendency of the Main Appeals also does not amount to contempt as the same was done in compliance of the High Court’s impugned . Since the High Court had allowed the Borrower to redeem the mortgage on the condition that it tenders the entire dues payable by 31.08.2023 failing which the amount of Rs. 25 crore paid by it would be forfeited, & the entire dues would not have paid the Borrower would have not only lost the amount already paid by it but would have also been in contempt of the passed by the High Court. 73. Thus, in to comply with the High Court’s to its letter and spirit, the Subsequent Transferee paid the remaining dues to the Bank on behalf of the Borrower and thereafter the Secured Asset was transferred to it. He further submitted that, since during the pendency of the Main Appeals, there was no prohibitory or stay by this Court, the transferring of ownership by way of the Assignment Agreement does not amount to contempt. In this regard, reliance has been placed on the decision of this Court in Collector of Customs, Bombay v. Kirshna Sales (P) Ltd. reported in (1994) Supp 3 SCC 73 that merely filing an appeal does not amount to a stay of the and the decision in Patel Rajnikant Dhulabhai & Anr.