[2024] 6 S.C.R. 209 Anees v. The State Govt. of NCT v. Whether the appellant is entitled to the benefit of Exception 4 to Section 300 of the IPC? 75. We shall now deal with the alternative submission of the learned counsel for the appellant as regards the applicability of Exception 4 to Section 300 of the IPC. 76. He submitted that even otherwise it is the case of the prosecution that the appellant and the deceased were not leading a happy marital life and used to fight with each other for some reason or the other, more particularly, on account of the deceased returning home very late in the night. The learned counsel tried to develop an argument that on the fateful day of the incident also some verbal altercation might have taken place and this fact is also substantiated by the evidence of Shaheena (PW-3) that she had heard shouts and shrieks of her parents in the night hours. This would indicate that the incident had occurred in the heat of the moment without any pre-meditation. In other words, according to the learned counsel it could be a sudden fight between the two in the heat of passion upon a sudden quarrel. He also tried to fortify his submission pointing out that appellant had also suffered minor injuries. 77. The aforesaid submission of the learned counsel appearing for the appellant is baseless and without any merit. However, since a specific ground has been urged, we should answer the same. 78. The sine qua non for the application of an Exception to Section 300 always is that it is a case of murder but the accused claims the benefit of the Exception to bring it out of that Section and to make it a case of culpable homicide not amounting to murder. This plea, therefore, assumes that this is a case of murder. Hence, as per Section 105 of the Evidence Act, it is for the accused to show the applicability of the Exception. Exception 4 reads as under: “Exception 4.- Culpable homicide is not murder if it is committed without premeditation in a sudden fight in the heat of passion upon a sudden quarrel and without the offender having taken undue advantage or acted in a cruel or unusual manner.” 79. A perusal of the provision would reveal that four conditions must be satisfied to bring the matter within Exception 4: 210 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (i) it was a sudden fight; (ii) there was no premeditation; (iii) the act was done in the heat of passion; and; that (iv) the assailant had not taken any undue advantage or acted in a cruel manner. 80. On a plain reading of Exception 4, it appears that the help of Exception 4 can be invoked if death is caused (a) without premeditation, (b) in a sudden fight, (c) without the offenders having taken undue advantage or having acted in a cruel or unusual manner; and (d) the fight must have been with the person killed.