When Smt. Usha Mitra died in 2009, the appellants would be considered tenants only till 03.11.2014 (five years after the death of Usha Mitra on 03.11.2009), as per section 2(g) of the 1997 Act. As we have already referred earlier, the main thrust of the landlord’s case was that the appellant/defendant had admitted, in his deposition in a different matter, that his mother was the tenant on the property who had passed away in 2009. Hence, their tenancy had expired long back in 2014 as per his own admission. In their Written Statements, appellants did not deny the deposition made by appellant no.1 as a “witness” in another case but submitted that this cannot be used as an admission under XII Rule 6. Further, it was asserted that it was not just their mother who had become a tenant after the death of his father in the year 1970, but both appellants had also become tenants as the tenancy was heritable as per section 2(h) of the 1956 Act, which was then in force. 6. The Single Judge of the High Court, however, did not accept this contention. What was relied upon were the rent receipts in the name of Smt. Usha Mitra (the mother of the present appellant), for the period between 1970 and 2009 and an affidavit attested by Smt. Usha Mitra, showing that she was the sole tenant of the premises while dismissing the claim of the defendants. [2024] 9 S.C.R. 653 Rajesh Mitra @ Rajesh Kumar Mitra & Anr. v. Karnani Properties Ltd. Undisputedly, Smt. Usha Mitra had become a tenant under section 2(h) of the 1956 Act. However, when these facts were considered along with the deposition of appellant no. 1, it was held by the Single Judge of the High Court that after the death of Smt. Usha Mitra in 2009, the appellants would be tenants under section 2(g) of the 1997 Act only for a period of five years which would be calculated from the date of Usha Mitra’s death due to the words “whichever is later” appearing in section 2(g). Five years got completed on 02.11.2014, after which the appellants had no right to remain on the premises. As we have already stated above, the learned Single Judge was not correct in decreeing the suit on this so called “admission”. Looking at the facts of the case and the position of law, it was not proper for the Court to give a on admission simply because there cannot be an admission against law and in any case, it is not an unambiguous admission as is being made out. In view of the discussion above, the legal question to be determined by us is whether the appellants had also became tenants upon the death of their father, by virtue of section 2(h) of the old Act. Further, what effect would the enforcement of the new Act have on their tenancy. This goes to the root of the controversy and involves a question of law and thus, the learned single Judge erred in passing the under XII Rule 6.