Physical delivery of documents by the debtor to the creditor is not the only mode of deposit. There may be a constructive deposit. A court will have to ascertain in each case whether in substance there is a delivery of title deeds by the debtor to the creditor. If the creditor was already in possession of the title deeds, it would be hypertechnical to insist upon the formality of the creditor delivering the title deeds to the debtor and the debtor redelivering them to the creditor. What would be necessary in those circumstances is whether the parties agreed to treat the documents in the possession of the creditor or his agent as delivery to him for the purpose of the transaction.” The question which arose therein was that what would be the extent of subject-matter of mortgage; the entire property forming the subject-matter of mortgage or a part thereof.” (emphasis supplied) 28. In the interest of completeness, we may note that the Bench of 2 learned Judges in Syndicate Bank (supra) had referred to a larger Bench, the question as to whether a property could be equitably mortgaged by deposit of documents other than the title [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1017 A.B. Govardhan v. P. Ragothaman deeds or registered title document. However, the 3-Judges Bench in Syndicate Bank v Estate Officer and Manager (Recoveries), Andhra Pradesh Industrial Infrastructure Corporation Limited (2021) 3 SCC 736 was “of the opinion that the reference need not be answered in the peculiar facts and circumstances of the case since in our opinion the State of Andhra Pradesh and its successor viz. APIIC and Telangana Industrial Infrastructure Ltd., are estopped from challenging the validity of the mortgage.” In State of Haryana v Narvir Singh (2014) 1 SCC 105, this Court observed: “11. A mortgage inter alia means transfer of interest in the specific immovable property for the purpose of securing the money advanced by way of loan. Section 17(1)(c) of the Registration Act provides that a non-testamentary instrument which acknowledges the receipt or payment of any consideration on account of the creation, declaration, assignment, limitation or extension of any such right, title or interest, requires compulsory registration. A mortgage by deposit of title deeds in terms of Section 58(f) of the Transfer of Property Act surely acknowledges the receipt and transfer of interest and, therefore, one may contend that its registration is compulsory. However, Section 59 of the Transfer of Property Act mandates that every mortgage other than a mortgage by deposit of title deeds can be effected only by a registered instrument. In the face of it, in our opinion, when the debtor deposits with the creditor title deeds of the property for the purpose of security, it becomes a mortgage in terms of Section 58(f) of the Transfer of Property Act and no registered instrument is required under Section 59 thereof as in other classes of mortgage. The essence of a mortgage by deposit of title deeds is the handing over, by a borrower to the creditor, the title deeds of immovable property with the intention that those documents shall constitute security, enabling the creditor to recover the money lent.