In a case of pledge, the pledged article belongs to some other person but the same is kept in trust by the pledgee. [...] ” (Emphasis supplied) 35. The aforesaid exposition of law makes it clear that there should be some entrustment of property to the accused wherein the ownership is not transferred to the accused. In case of sale of movable property, although the payment may be deferred yet the [2024] 8 S.C.R. 697 Delhi Race Club (1940) Ltd. & Ors. v. State of Uttar Pradesh & Anr. property in the goods passes on delivery as per Sections 20 and 24 respectively of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930. “20. Specific goods in a deliverable state. — Where there is an unconditional contract for the sale of specific goods in a deliverable state, the property in the goods passes to the buyer when the contract is made and it is immaterial whether the time of payment of the price or the time of delivery of goods, or both, is postponed. xxx xxx xxx 24. Goods sent on approval or “on sale or return”. — When goods are delivered to the buyer on approval or “on sale or return” or other similar terms, the property therein passes to the buyer— (a) when he signifies his approval or acceptance to the seller or does any other act adopting the transaction; (b) if he does not signify his approval or acceptance to the seller but retains the goods without giving notice of rejection, then, if a time has been fixed for the return of the goods on the expiration of such time, and, if no time has been fixed, on the expiration of a reasonable time.” 36. From the aforesaid, there is no manner of any doubt whatsoever that in case of sale of goods, the property passes to the purchaser from the seller when the goods are delivered. Once the property in the goods passes to the purchaser, it cannot be said that the purchaser was entrusted with the property of the seller. Without entrustment of property, there cannot be any criminal breach of trust. Thus, prosecution of cases on charge of criminal breach of trust, for failure to pay the consideration amount in case of sale of goods is flawed to the core. There can be civil remedy for the non-payment of the consideration amount, but no criminal case will be maintainable for it. [See : Lalit Chaturvedi and Others v. State of Uttar Pradesh and Another : 2024 SCC OnLine SC 171 & Mideast Integrated Steels Ltd. (MESCO Steel Ltd.) and Others v. State of Jharkhand and Another : 2023 SCC OnLine Jhar 301] 37. The case at hand falls in category No. 1 as laid in Smt. Nagawwa (supra) referred to in para 7 of this . 698 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 38. If it is the case of the complainant that a particular amount is due and payable to him then he should have filed a civil suit for recovery of the amount against the appellants herein.