When parties have entered into a contract and settled on a procedure, due importance has to be given to such procedure. Even though rigor of the doctrine of “freedom of contract” has been whittled down by various labour and social welfare legislation, still the court has to respect the terms of the contract entered into by parties and endeavour to give importance and effect to it. When the party has not disputed the arbitration clause, normally he is bound by it and obliged to comply with the procedure laid down under the said clause.”]; 77 “PSUs” 78 Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. v. Raja Transport (P) Ltd. (2009) 8 SCC 520 [30] 79 Raja Transport (supra) [34]; Denel (Proprietary) Ltd. v. Bharat Electronics Ltd. (2010) 6 SCC 394 [21]; Bipromasz Birpron Trading Sa v. Bharat Electronics Ltd. (2012) 6 SCC 384 [50] 80 Union of India v. Singh Builders Syndicate (2009) 4 SCC 523 [25]. [“25. We find that a provision for serving officers of one party being appointed as arbitrator(s) brings out considerable resistance from the other party, when disputes arise. Having regard to the emphasis on independence and impartiality in the new Act, Government, statutory authorities and government companies should think of phasing out arbitration clauses providing for serving officers and encourage professionalism in arbitration.”]; See North Eastern Railway v. Tripple Engg. Works, (2014) 9 SCC 288 [8]; Union of India v. UP State Bridge Corporation Ltd. (2015) 2 SCC 52 [20] [“20. Therefore, where the Government assumes the authority and power to itself, in one-sided arbitration clause, to appoint the arbitrators in the case of disputes, it should be more vigilant and more responsible in choosing the arbitrators who are in a position to conduct the arbitral proceedings in an efficient manner, without compromising with their other duties. Time has come when the appointing authorities have to take call on such aspects failing which (as in the instant case), Courts are not powerless to remedy such situations by springing into action and exercising their powers as contained in Section 11 of the Act to constitute an Arbitral Tribunal, so that interest of the other side is equally protected.”] 2218 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 44. The 2015 amendment mandates arbitrators to make disclosures before their appointment in terms of the categories specified under the Fifth Schedule. The Fifth Schedule prescribes thirty-four categories that give rise to justifiable doubts as to the independence or impartiality of arbitrators. These categories are classified as follows: (i) the relationship of the arbitrator with the parties or counsel; (ii) the relationship of the arbitrator to the dispute; (iii) the arbitrator’s direct or indirect interest in the dispute; (iv) previous services rendered by the arbitrator to one of the parties or other involvement in the case; (v) relationship between an arbitrator and another arbitrator or counsel; (vi) relationship between arbitrator and party and others involved in the arbitration, and (vii) and other circumstances. 45. The 2015 amendment has incorporated Section 12(5) to provide for ineligibility of a person to be appointed as an arbitrator whose relationship with the parties or counsel or the subject matter of the dispute falls under any of the categories specified in the Seventh Schedule.