These rules require the assessing doctor to be a domain expert in disabilities. In the present case this Court requested Dr Satendra Singh to assess the appellant which shall not be a precedent. To that extent the submission of the second respondent is accepted. We may note that this Court was constrained to a functional competency test due to the failure of the previous two Boards to apply the legally permissible standard. The appellant shall not be made to undergo any further assessments as part of his admission to the MBBS course. On 25 October 2024 this Court granted leave and directed that the appellant be permitted to participate in the ongoing counselling process arising out of NEET UG 2024. 17. Unfortunately, this run hardly obviates further labour. The appellant finds himself re-entering the NEET counselling process after a lapse of valuable time. He was allocated a seat at the Dr Shankarrao Chavan Government Medical College, Nanded in the first and second rounds of All India Level counselling. Now, stray vacancies for the category of persons with disabilities at the All India Level are available in only nine colleges, none of which are in the home State of the appellant – Maharashtra. The appellant submits that none of the nine colleges are compliant with accessibility norms and adequate support systems necessary for him to enjoy a level playing field. The appellant now prays that this Court create a seat for him at the college which he was allocated in the initial rounds of counselling or for that matter at 2202 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports any college in Maharashtra. The run of the appellant from Washim to Nagpur and Delhi accompanied by several assessments now stands the chance of being fruitless. The appellant prays that this Court exercises its power to do complete justice under Article 142 of the Constitution. Additionally, the appellant prays that this Court may issue directives on the manner in which the grievances of exclusion of disabled candidates is to be considered inter alia by courts. C. The maze to inclusion: RPWD Act and guidelines 18. Section 323 of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act 20164 stipulates that all Government and Government aided institutions of higher learning shall reserve not less than five percent of seats for persons with benchmark disability. The enactment of the RPWD Act in 2016 marked a paradigm shift in disability law in India from charity based to a rights based approach. Accordingly, the erstwhile Medical Council of India5 formulated guidelines on admission of persons with specific disability in MBBS courses. The Government of India approved the proposal of the committee on 28 January 2019 and issued a notification in the gazette on 5 February 2019. 19. The report stipulated the guidelines in Appendix “H” which laid down six categories of locomotor disabilities including muscular dystrophy. All persons with a locomotor disability above eighty percent were rendered ineligible for medical courses. Appendix “H” was substituted by Appendix “H-1” on 13 May 2019.