1865 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. to whether Act. 30(1) of the Constitution envisages an institution which is established by minorities alone without the participation for the factum of establishment from any other community. On this point, there is no clear decision of this court. There are some observations in S. Azeez Basha & ors. Vs. Union of India 1968 (1) SCR 333, but these observations can be explained away. Another point that arises is whether soon after the establishment of the institution if it is registered as a Society under the Society Registration Act, its status as a minority institution changes in view of the broad principles laid down in S. Azeez Basha’s case. Even as it is several jurists including Mr. Seervai have expressed about the correctness of the decision of this court in S. Azeez Basha’s case. Since the point has arisen in this case we think that this is a proper occasion when a larger bench can consider the entire aspect fully. We, therefore, direct that this case may be placed before Hon. The Chief Justice for being heard by a bench of at least 7 judges so that S. Azeez Basha’s case may also be considered and the points that arise in this case directly as to the essential conditions or ingredients of the minority institution may also be decided once for all. A large number of jurists including Mr. Seervai, learned counsel for the petitioners Mr. Garg and learned counsel for respondents and interveners Mr. Dikshit and Kaskar have stated that this case requires reconsideration. In view of the urgency it is necessary that the matter should be decided as early as possible we give liberty to the counsel for parties to mention the matter before Chief Justice.” (emphasis supplied) 20. Ever since the mid-fifties of the last century, the entire functional strength of Judges of the Supreme Court of India has never assembled to decide any case. The last time the entire strength of 8 (eight) Judges did assemble was in 1954, when the Constitution Bench decided two writ petitions under Article 32 of the Constitution in M. P. Sharma vs. Satish Chandra.19 It is well known that while discharging its judicial 19 (1954)1 SCC 385 1866 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports duties, owing to administrative exigency and practical expedience, the Supreme Court of India functions through separate benches. Although voices of the benches could be different on a common point of law, yet, the reasons and the ultimate conclusions are treated as the view-point of the Supreme Court. No matter the strength, all these voices bear the symbol of the Supreme Court. It is also well known that it is the power of the Chief Justice of India, on the administrative side, to determine appropriate numerical strength of the benches. However, the mere fact of this Bench having a numerical strength of 7 (seven) Judges and presided over by none other than the Chief Justice of India does not necessarily make it competent to decide the re-reference, if the s of reference/re-reference are found to be seriously flawed and no such reference/re-reference should have or could have been made in the first place.