They further submitted that the process of restructuring as contemplated in the [2024] 8 S.C.R. 145 M/s Pro Knits v. The Board of Directors of Canara Bank & Ors. said Notification and classification of borrower’s account as NPA are two independent subjects and therefore it can not be interpreted that unless the procedure under the said Notification for restructuring is adopted, the appellants accounts could not have been classified as NPAs. According to them, the Instructions issued under Section 9 of the MSMED Act are mere directory and not mandatory nor do they have any statutory force. 6. Before delving into the issue involved in the instant appeals as to whether the Notification dated 29.05.2015 issued by the Central Government in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 9 of the MSMED Act, as revised from time to time, is mandatory or directory, let us have a glance over the relevant provisions of the MSMED Act. It may be noted that the very object and purpose of the MSMED Act is to provide for facilitating the promotion and development and enhancing the competitiveness of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises and for matters connected therewith and incidental thereto. Section 9 thereof empowers the Central Government to take measures for the purpose of facilitating such promotion and development and enhancing competitiveness of MSMEs by specifying the programmes, guidelines or instructions as it may deem fit, by issuing Notifications. 7. Section 10 of the MSMED Act states that the policies and practices in respect of the credit to the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises shall be progressive and such as may be specified in the guidelines or instructions issued by the Reserve Bank, from time to time, to ensure timely and smooth flow of credit to such enterprises, minimize the incidence of sickness among and enhance the competitiveness of such enterprises. 8. At this juncture, it would also be apt to refer to the relevant provisions contained in the Banking Regulation Act, 1949. Section 21 of the said Act empowers the Reserve Bank of India to control advances by Banking companies. The said section inter alia provides that where the Reserve Bank is satisfied that it is necessary or expedient in the public interest or in the interest of the depositors or banking policy so to do, it may determine the policy in relation to advances to be followed by banking companies generally or by any company in particular and when the policy has been so determined, all banking companies or the banking company concerned, as the case may be, 146 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports shall be bound to follow the policy as so determined. Sub-section (3) of Section 21 states that every banking company shall be bound to comply with any directions given to it under the said Section. Further, Section 35A of the said Banking Regulation Act reads as under: - “35A. Power of the Reserve Bank to give directions. — (1) Where the Reserve Bank is satisfied that- (a) in the public interest; or (aa) in the interest of banking policy; or (b) to prevent the affairs of any banking company being conducted in a manner detrimental to the interests of the depositors or in a manner prejudicial to the interests of the banking company; or (c) to secure the proper management of any banking company generally, it is necessary to issue directions to banking companies generally or to any banking company in particular, it may, from time to time, issue such directions as it deems fit, and the banking companies or the banking company, as the case may be, shall be bound to comply with such directions.