List of Keywords Issuance of second passport; Conviction of one accused and acquittal of the other when similar or identical evidence pitted against the two; Burden to prove; False information or suppressing known material information. Case Arising From CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION : Criminal Appeal No. 477 of 2017 From the and dated 18.08.2011 of the High Court of Madras at Madurai in CA No. 203 of 2008 Appearances for Parties M. Yogesh Kanna, S. Prabu Ramasubramanian, Raghunatha Sethupathy B, Manoj Kumar A, Vasu Kalra, Ms. Monica Saini, Advs. for the Appellant. [2024] 9 S.C.R. 627 Yogarani v. State by The Inspector of Police Mrs. Aishwarya Bhati, A.S.G., Mukesh Kumar Maroria, Ms. Shraddha Deshmukh, Rajnish Prasad, Udai Khanna, Nithin Choudhary Pavuluri, Advs. for the Respondent. / of the Supreme Court Aravind Kumar, J. 1. The appellant who has been arraigned as accused No.2 has challenged the concurrent conviction and sentence ed under Section 420 Indian Penal Code (for short ‘IPC’) read with Section 12(2) of the Passports Act, 1967 (herein after referred as ‘Passports Act’) and sentenced to one-year rigorous imprisonment for each of the offences which are to run concurrently. 2. The short and long of prosecution story is that appellant had wrongfully and illegally facilitated accused No. 1, for obtaining a second passport, who was already holding an Indian passport. It was further alleged that accused No.1 having deposited his passport with his employer at Dubai had applied for second passport in to have better employment opportunities and said application was forwarded/ routed through the appellant. The prosecution alleged that second passport which was issued and dispatched to Accused No.1 had been returned undelivered to the Passport Office Trichy and was kept in safe custody and later it was delivered to the appellant by accused No.3 who was in charge of safe custody of the passports through accused No.4 who was working as a casual labourer in the Passport Office. It was also alleged that appellant had demanded payment of Rs.5,000/- from accused No.1 for handing over the passport and he having refused resulted in appellant returning the second passport to the Passport Office by registered post. 3. Along with the appellant other accused persons namely Mr. J. Joseph (Accused No.1), Smt. Sasikala (Accused No.3) - in charge of safe custody of passports, Mr. P. Manisekar (Accused No.4) working as a casual labour in the Passport Office, Trichy and Mr. S. Raghupathy (Accused No.5) then working as an Upper Division Clerk in Passport Office, Trichy who had made an endorsement that no passport had earlier been issued in favour of Accused No.1 were also tried for 628 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the offences punishable under Section120B read with Section 420 of IPC, Section 12(1)(b), 12(2) of Passports Act and Section 13(2) and Section 13(1)(d) of Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 before the Special Judge for CBI cases, Madurai, which resulted in acquittal of all the accused persons in respect of charge of conspiracy. Accused Nos.3 and 4 were acquitted of all other charges also.