Digital Supreme Court Reports (vi) who does not have parents and no one is willing to take care of, or whose parents have abandoned or surrendered him; or (vii) who is missing or run away child, or whose parents cannot be found after making reasonable inquiry in such manner as may be prescribed; or (viii) who has been or is being or is likely to be abused, tortured or exploited for the purpose of sexual abuse or illegal acts; or (ix) who is found vulnerable and is likely to be inducted into drug abuse or trafficking; or (x) who is being or is likely to be abused for unconscionable gains; or (xi) who is victim of or affected by any armed conflict, civil unrest or natural calamity; or (xii) who is at imminent risk of marriage before attaining the age of marriage and whose parents, family members, guardian and any other persons are likely to be responsible for solemnisation of such marriage; (15) .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. .. .. .. .. .. ..” (emphasis added) 28.2 If a child is residing with a person who has injured, exploited or abused the child or has violated any other law for the time being in force meant for the protection of the child, the said child becomes a child in need of care and protection. Thus, if a child who is a victim of an offence under the POCSO Act is residing with the accused, the child becomes a child in need of care and protection. Even a child who has a parent or guardian and if such parent or guardian is found to be unfit to take care of the child, in such a case, the child is covered by the definition under sub-section (14) of Section 2 of the JJ Act. Therefore, the CWC has to exercise the power to provide basic needs and protection to such children in need of care and protection. [2024] 8 S.C.R. 601 In Re: Right To Privacy of Adolescents 29. Giving information of the commission of offence under the POCSO Act, as required by Section 19(6) of the POCSO Act, is not an empty formality. The CWC has to immediately step in and take action as provided under Section 30 of the JJ Act, which reads thus: “30. Functions and responsibilities of Committee.— The functions and responsibilities of the Committee shall include— (i) taking cognizance of and receiving the children produced before it; (ii) conducting inquiry on all issues relating to and affecting the safety and well-being of the children under this Act; (iii) directing the Child Welfare Officers or probation officers or District Child Protection Unit or non-governmental organisations to conduct social investigation and submit a report before the Committee; (iv) conducting inquiry for declaring fit persons for care of children in need of care and protection; (v) directing placement of a child in foster care; (vi) ensuring care, protection, appropriate rehabilitation or restoration of children in need of care and protection, based on the child’s individual care plan and passing necessary directions to parents or guardians or fit persons or children’s homes or fit facility in this regard; (vii) selecting registered institution for placement of each child requiring institutional support, based on the child’s age, gender, disability and needs and keeping in mind the available capacity of the institution; (viii) conducting at least two inspection visits per month of residential facilities for children in need of care and protection and recommending action for improvement in quality of services to the District Child Protection Unit and the State Government; (ix) certifying the execution of the surrender deed by the parents and ensuring that they are given time to reconsider 602 [2024] 8 S.C.R.