Supreme Court Reports 244. In the absence of any application of Article 30 in 1920, there was no inherent fundamental right to establish a minority institution and neither was there a requirement on the State to provide any recognition to any institution. The argument of the parties defending the of the High Court claiming that the right was “surrendered” by the minority community in 1920 is misplaced. It erroneously assumes that there existed any right in the decade of 1910-1920 when the events concerning establishment of the AMU took place. There is no question of surrendering any right as no such right, even in context of MAO College, ever existed as the British Indian Government was a supreme Imperial power in the country and no person living in India had any constitution-based rights nor was there any such concept. The entirety of the landscape was a function of the largesse of the Executive or the Legislative powers of the British Indian Government and its bodies. Thus, the question of surrender is illusory and does not arise in the present case. 245. Indeed, fundamental rights could not have been surrendered after 26.01.1950 however, if some events have already happened prior to the same, it is not possible to re-interpret such factual events in a different or a purportedly constitutionally compliant manner. The facts of history cannot be changed by the advent of the Constitution. 246. It is important to clarify at this stage that the said proposition does not entail that pre-Constitution enactments, even enactments providing for taking over of institutions [religious or educational] by the then Legislatures, would be free from the vice of unconstitutionality. The said statutes would always be subject to the overarching constitutional rights and subject to the rigours of Article 13. The present case therefore, does not concern surrender of “rights” rather involves a holistic survey of events leading up to the 1920 Act. n. the de-facto and safe haVen argument 247. It has also been argued by the parties challenging the of the High Court that de-facto, the important authorities like the members of the ‘Court’ and the Vice-Chancellors of the University have been from the minority community. On the basis of the same, it is asserted that the while after 1951, there may not have been a specific requirement for the ‘Court’ to be consisting of the minority community, in reality, the members from the minority community have been appointed in most cases. The same has been read to [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2027 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. be a pointer towards the minority character of the institution. On the other hand, the parties defending the of the High Court highlighted that once there exists no such requirement in law, it would be erroneous to base a conclusion on the basis of practice. 248. As a matter of law, a practice or a chance occurrence would not be a factor in deciding the nature of the institution and certainly not relevant to decide the question of establishment.