A dent in the credibility of such an employee from the perspective of the employer has been mentioned in the following words: “14. The issue/question may be considered from another angle, from the employer’s point of view. The question is not about whether an employee was involved in a dispute of trivial nature and whether he has been subsequently acquitted or not. The question is about the credibility and/or trustworthiness of such an employee who at the initial stage of the employment i.e. while submitting the declaration/verification and/or applying for a post made false declaration and/or not disclosing and/ or suppressing material fact of having involved in a criminal case. If the correct facts would have been 14 [2021] 7 SCR 710 : (2021) 10 SCC 136 930 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports disclosed, the employer might not have appointed him. Then the question is of trust. Therefore, in such a situation, where the employer feels that an employee who at the initial stage itself has made a false statement and/or not disclosed the material facts and/or suppressed the material facts and therefore he cannot be continued in service because such an employee cannot be relied upon even in future, the employer cannot be forced to continue such an employee. The choice/option whether to continue or not to continue such an employee always must be given to the employer. At the cost of repetition, it is observed and as observed hereinabove in catena of decision such an employee cannot claim the appointment and/or continue to be in service as a matter of right.” (emphasis added) 24. In the case at hand, the learned Single Judge has erred in accepting the submission made on behalf of the respondent that it was only after the appellants passed the dated 24th June, 2014 removing him from service that he had inquired about the criminal case pending against him and later on, the respondent was acquitted in Criminal Case No. 459/2011. As noted above, the said observations run contrary to the record itself that clearly reveals that the respondent was well-aware of the fact that a criminal case had been registered against him, he was taken into judicial custody and had subsequently applied for bail along with other co-accused in the said case which was granted by the trial Court on 04th October, 2011. All the aforesaid events had occurred well before 30th November, 2011, the date on which the respondent had filled up the Verification Roll. Therefore, it has to be observed that the respondent had complete knowledge of the registration of the FIR and pendency of the criminal cases. Despite that, he had wilfully withheld material information from the appellants while filling up the Verification Roll. He had further misconducted himself when the appellants issued him a show-cause notice calling upon him to explain his position and falsely denied the allegations levelled against him in his reply to the notice to show cause that ultimately led to initiation of disciplinary proceedings against him.