Mr Chari’s contention in substance is that there are various textile companies in India situated in a similar manner as Sholapur Company, against which the same charges could be brought and for the control and regulation of which all the reasons that are mentioned in the Preamble to the Ordinance could be applied. Yet, it is said, the legislation has been passed with regard to this one Company alone. The argument seems plausible at first sight, but on a closer examination I do not think that I can accept it as sound. It must be conceded that the legislature has a wide discretion in determining the subject-matter of its laws. It is an accepted doctrine of the American courts and which seems to me to be well founded on principle, that the presumption is in favour of the constitutionality of an enactment and the burden is upon him who attacks it to show that there has been a transgression of constitutional principles. As was said by the Supreme Court of America in Middleton v. Texas Power and Light Co. [Middleton v. Texas Power [2024] 10 S.C.R. 463 Khalsa University and Another v. The State of Punjab and Another and Light Co., 63 L Ed 527 : 249 US 152, 157 (1919) : 1919 SCC OnLine US SC 50] : (L Ed p. 531) “… [It must be presumed] that a legislature understands and correctly appreciates the needs of its own people, that its laws are directed to problems made manifest by experience and that its discriminations are based upon adequate grounds.” (US p. 157) This being the position, it is for the petitioner to establish facts which would prove that the selection of this particular subject by the legislature is unreasonable and based upon arbitrary grounds. No allegations were made in the petition and no materials were placed before us to show as to whether there are other companies in India which come precisely under the same category as Sholapur Spinning and Weaving Company and the reasons for imposing control upon the latter as mentioned in the Preamble to the Ordinance are applicable to them as well. Mr Chari argues that these are matters of common knowledge of which we should take judicial notice. I do not think that this is the correct line of approach. It is quite true that the legislature has, in this instance, proceeded against one company only and its shareholders; but even one corporation or a group of persons can be taken as a class by itself for the purpose of legislation, provided it exhibits some exceptional features which are not possessed by others. The courts should prima facie lean in favour of constitutionality and should support the legislation if it is possible to do so on any reasonable ground, and it is for the party who attacks the validity of the legislation to place all materials before the court which would go to show that the selection is arbitrary and unsupportable. Throwing out of vague hints that there may be other instances of similar nature is not enough for this purpose.