The appellant by uttering the words “Today I shall pay all your dues”, attacked the deceased Gajendra Singh with a knife inflicting two fatal blows on the chest and stomach respectively. The motive of the attack appears to be the failure of the appellant in completing the work for which the deceased gave a sum of Rs.500/-. 4. PW-2 and PW-3 took the deceased, who was bleeding profusely on a tempo whose driver has not been examined, to the hospital in which PW-5 was working. After admitting the deceased in the hospital, PW-2 went to the house of the deceased by travelling, which took him 15 minutes, and passed on the information of attack on deceased, to his father, PW-1. On examination, PW-5 found that the deceased was in a serious condition and, therefore, merely gave first aid and referred the deceased to a hospital in 782 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Dehradun. After reaching the hospital, PW-1 made an enquiry with the deceased who gave a dying declaration narrating the incident. PW-5 did not speak about the presence of any of the witnesses except the fact that the deceased was admitted by PW-3 and, therefore, did not refer to the said dying declaration given to PW-1. PW-1 dictated the complaint to one Mr. Inder Singh (not examined) and went to the police station situated just opposite to the hospital. Prior to the aforesaid action on the part of PW-1, PW-5 has made an entry in the emergency medical register which was subsequently filled up by another person named Dr. B.V. Sharma (not examined). Dr. B.V. Sharma sent report immediately to the police station. 5. Before PW-1 could reach the police station, the report from the hospital had reached and, therefore, investigation was triggered. However, neither First Information Report (FIR) had been registered nor noting had been made in the general diary. In fact, the available noting on the general diary did not disclose any offence committed on 21.06.1992, as per the statement of PW-13, who produced the same before the court. 6. PW-2 and PW-3 took the deceased to the nearby hospital at Dehradun as per the version of PW-1 and PW-2, while PW-3 said it was himself and PW-1 who undertook the said exercise. As per the version of PW-8, the doctor who attended the deceased at the Dehradun hospital, the deceased was brought to the hospital by his brother Mr. Bhupender Singh (not examined). 7. PW-11 took up the investigation. He went to the place of occurrence, drew the sketch and prepared the site plan. While returning, he was informed by PW-7, another brother of the deceased that he received information that the appellant was trying to escape to Dehradun. PW- 6, who heard about the occurrence, went to the place of occurrence out of curiosity. The appellant was found and arrested at about 50- 60 yards from the place of occurrence by PW-11 in the presence of PW-6, PW-7 and one Mr. Sanjeev Saini (not examined).