It checks strategic misuse of the insolvency proceedings. In the context of Chapter II Part II of the IBC, we are not concerned with the liquidation estate or 55 Section 3 Definitions. — (6) “claim” means—(a) a right to payment, whether or not such right is reduced to , fixed, disputed, undisputed, legal, equitable, secured or unsecured; (b) right to remedy for breach of contract under any law for the time being in force, if such breach gives rise to a right to payment, whether or not such right is reduced to , fixed, matured, unmatured, disputed, undisputed, secured or unsecured. (11) “debt” means a liability or obligation in respect of a claim which is due from any person and includes a financial debt and operational debt. 56 UNCITRAL Legislative Guide on Insolvency Law, Chapter G. p.155-156 (2005). [2024] 1 S.C.R. 169 BHARTI AIRTEL LIMITED AND ANOTHER v. VIJAYKUMAR V. IYER AND OTHERS the liquidation process. At this stage, we are examining the question of rehabilitation and revival of the corporate debtor. The focus and objective is entirely different. Therefore, in our opinion, the said guide is of no avail or instructive to us. Further, the provisions relating to Chapter II Part II being explicit and not ambiguous, do not require purposive interpretation. We should, however, take on record that the UNCITRAL guide does distinguish between the set-off obligations maturing prior to the commencement of the insolvency proceedings and set-off obligations after the commencement of the insolvency proceedings.57 Only the former should be permitted in insolvency proceedings, while the latter should be disallowed or allowed to a limited extent. 50. On the aspect of mutual dealings and also equity, it is to be noted that adjustment of the inter-connect charges are under a separate and distinct agreement. The telephone service providers use each other’s facilities as the caller or the receiver may be using a different service provider. Accordingly, adjustments of set-off are made on the basis of contractual set-off. These are also justified on the ground of equitable set-off. The set-off to this extent has been permitted and allowed by the Resolution Professional. The transaction for purchase of the right to use the spectrum is an entirely different and unconnected transaction. The agreement to purchase the spectrum encountered obstacles because the DoT had required bank guarantees to be furnished. Accordingly, Airtel entities, on the request of Aircel entities had furnished bank guarantees on their behalf. The bank guarantees were returned and accordingly Airtel entities became liable to pay the balance amount in terms of the letters of understanding. The amounts have become payable post the commencement of the Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process. For the same reason, we will also reject the argument that by not allowing set-off, new rights are being created and, therefore, Section 14 of the IBC will not be operative and applicable. Moratorium under Section 14 is to grant protection and prevent a scramble and dissipation of the assets of the corporate debtor. The contention that the “amount” to be set-off is not part of the corporate debtor’s assets in the present facts is misconceived and must be rejected.