(2) No sale shall be set aside on the ground of irregularity or fraud in publishing or conducting it unless, upon the facts proved, the Court is satisfied that the applicant has sustained substantial injury by reason of such irregularity or fraud. 510 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (3) No application to set aside a sale under this rule shall be entertained upon any ground which could have been taken on or before the date on which the proclamation of sale was drawn up. Explanation.-The mere absence of, or defect in, attachment of the property sold shall not, by itself, be a ground for setting aside a sale under this rule.” 34. Legislative changes: By the Code of Civil Procedure (Amendment) Act, 1976, the following changes have been effected in Rule 90: (i) In sub-rule (1), the words “or the purchaser” and “other” were inserted after the words “the decree-holder” and “or any” respectively; (ii) The proviso to old sub-rule has been renumbered as sub-rule (2) with necessary changes in phraseology and with addition of the words “in publishing or conducting it” after the words “irregularity or fraud”; (iii) Sub-rule (3) has been inserted; (iv) Explanation to the rule has been added. 35. Object of Amendment: Rule 90, as originally enacted, reads thus: “90. (1) Where any immovable property has been sold in execution of a decree, the decree-holder, or any other person entitled to share in a rateable distribution of assets, or whose interests are affected by the sale; may apply to the Court to set aside the sale on the ground of a material irregularity or fraud in publishing or conducting it. Provided that no sale shall be set aside on the ground of irregularity or fraud unless upon the facts proved the Court is satisfied that the applicant has sustained substantial injury by reason of such irregularity or fraud.” The Law Commission in its Fourteenth Report, Vol. 1, pp. 454-55 considered the provision and recommended change by stating: - “51. Under Rule 90 a sale of immovable property in execution of a decree can be set aside on the ground of material irregularity or fraud in publishing or conducting [2024] 7 S.C.R. 511 M/s Al-Can Export Pvt. Ltd. v. Prestige H.M. Polycontainers Ltd. & Ors. the sale. The right to apply under this rule is given to the decree-holder or to any person entitled to a share in a rateable distribution of assets or whose interests are affected by the sale. It is generally accepted that a large percentage of application made by the -debtors to set aside sales under this Rule are frivolous and are filed with the object of delaying the delivery of possession. It is therefore necessary to make an amendment to Rule 90 by providing that no sale shall be set aside on the ground of delay in the proclamation of sale at the instance of any person who did not attend though given notice to appear at the drawing up of the proclamation or of any person, in whose presence the proclamation was drawn up, unless an objection was taken by him before the sale was held.” (Emphasis supplied) The Law Commission again considered the question as to irregularity in attachment and in its Twenty-seventh Report stated:- “The question whether absence of, or irregularity in attachment is, a defect in the “publication or conduct of the sale” has been discussed in several decisions.