The Court also referred to its earlier Constitution Bench decision in Ram Krishna Dalmia v. Justice S.R. Tendolkar,32 which observes that the legislature is free to recognise varying degrees of harm and may confine its restrictions on classification to those cases where the need is most evident. However, the courts can interfere when there is nothing on the face of law or the surrounding circumstances which reasonably support the classification. In such cases, the presumption of constitutionality does not extend to suggesting that there are always undisclosed reasons for subjecting certain individuals or entities to discriminatory legislation. The rationale for classification may be specified in the statute, policy etc., or inferred from the surrounding circumstances known or brought to the notice of the court. 50. In Nagpur Improvement Trust v. Vithal Rao and Others,33 a Constitution Bench of this Court emphasised that the object itself should be lawful and cannot be discriminatory. If the object is to discriminate against a section of the minority, such discrimination cannot be justified on the grounds of reasonable classification, even if it has a rational connection to the intended objective. 51. In a reference made to this Court under Article 143(1) of the Constitution of India regarding the constitutional validity of the 31 [2014] 9 SCR 283 : (2014) 8 SCC 682 32 [1959] 1 SCR 279 : AIR 1958 SC 538 33 [1973] 3 SCR 39 : (1973) 1 SCC 500 [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1407 State of Andhra Pradesh and Others v. Dr. Rao, V.B.J. Chelikani and Others Special Courts Bill, 1978, a seven-Judge bench of this Court in In Re: The Special Courts Bill, 1978,34 concluded that the State possesses the authority to enact laws that operate differently on various groups or classes of individuals to achieve specific ends. Constitutional command to the State to afford equal protection of laws sets a goal that cannot be achieved through rigid formulae. Therefore, courts should not demand delusive exactness or apply doctrinaire tests. Classification is justified as long as it is not palpably arbitrary. Laws must be applied equally to all individuals placed in similar situations, and reasonable classification involves segregating groups based on shared properties and characteristics. This power of classification enables the State to recognise and deal with the needs and exigencies of the society as suggested by experience, which includes recognition of given degree of evil. What is necessary is that there should be a nexus between them. 52. The basis of classification, and object of the legislation are distinct things. Article 14 postulates the need for a rational nexus. Therefore, mere designation of a classification based on an identified objective does not lead to an automatic satisfaction of Article 14. Such an approach can devolve into legal formalism, which risks disregarding the substantive implications of the constitutional guarantee of equality. This Court, to avoid such formalism, has transitioned from an exclusive reliance on the test of classification to a concurrent application of the doctrine of arbitrariness when actions are not grounded in valid reasons.