Case Arising From CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 7930 of 2024 From the and dated 21.09.2012 of the High Court of Gujarat at Ahmedabad in SCA No. 10136 of 2012 Appearances for Parties Mrs. Christi Jain, Ms. Pratibha Jain, Puneet Jain, Mann Arora, Ms. Akriti Jain, Harsh Jain, Advs. for the Appellant. K M Natraj, A.S.G., Kanu Agarwal, Ms. Swati Ghildiyal, Ms. Bani Dikshit, Kartikay Aggarwal, Abhishek Kumar Pandey, Raman Yadav, Mukesh Kumar Singh, Ms. Ameyavikrama Thanvi, Chitvan Sinhal, Arvind Kumar Sharma, Sidhant Kumar, Sahil Tagotra, Ms. Manyaa Chandok, Sujay Jain, Advs. for the Respondents. 1126 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports / of the Supreme Court 1. Leave granted. 2. The appellant is aggrieved by the dated 21.09.2012, passed by a Division Bench of the Gujarat High Court in terms whereof the Writ Petition, filed by the appellant, challenging the delimitation exercise, which resulted into reservation of Bardoli Legislative Assembly Constituency, Gujarat for Scheduled Caste community was dismissed. The said constituency was reserved by the Delimitation Commission in exercise of its powers under the Delimitation Act, 2002. 3. The High Court, vide the impugned , relied upon Article 329 of the Constitution and held that there is a bar to interference by the Court in electorate matters and as such, the appellant’s challenge to the Delimitation Commission’s No. 33, dated 12.12.2006, which had received the assent of the President of India, could not be called in question in any court of law. In this manner, the High Court dismissed the writ petition at the threshold on the anvil of Article 329(a) of the Constitution, which states: “329. Bar to interference by courts in electoral matters — Notwithstanding anything in this Constitution: (a) the validity of any law relating to the delimitation of constituencies or the allotment of seats to such constituencies, made or purporting to be made under article 327 or article 328, shall not be called in question in any court.” 4. As regards to the factual dispute and/or merits of the appellant’s claim is concerned, we do not deem it necessary to go into the validity of Commission’s as the controversy pertains to the delimitation exercise, which was undertaken way back in the year 2006. It is not in dispute that much water has flown under the bridge since then, including the undertaking of a fresh delimitation exercise by the competent authority. 5. We, however, do not approve the view taken by the High Court that the of delimitation of constituencies, issued in exercise of statutory powers under the Delimitation Act, is entirely insusceptible [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1127 Kishorchandra Chhanganlal Rathod v. Union of India & Ors. to the powers of judicial review exercisable under Article 226 of the Constitution. Although Article 329 undeniably restricts the scope of judicial scrutiny re: validity of any law relating to the delimitation of constituencies or the allotment of seats to such constituencies, it cannot be construed to have imposed for every action of delimitation exercise. If judicial intervention is deemed completely barred, citizens would not have any forum to plead their grievances, leaving them solely at the mercy of the Delimitation Commission.