The decision of the National Commission to unilaterally hold that any interest above 30% p.a. is usurious, is in contrary to the legislative intent of section 21A and is an encroachment upon the domain of the Reserve Bank of India. 52. In the case of Central Bank of India Vs Ravindra & Ors. [2002] 1 SCC 367, this Hon’ble Court had decided on the issue, when banks in India were not following a uniform practice, and other banks charged interest with monthly or quarterly rests while others charged with yearly or six-monthly rests. It was held by this Hon’ble Court, that a distinction was drawn between the court’s power to interfere on the promise that the interest charged is excessive under the general law, and the court’s interference on the premise that the interest charged is in contravention of the circulars and directions issued by the Reserve Bank of India. In the former case, it would not be permissible in view of the bar enacted by Section 21A of the Banking Regulation Act, while in the latter case, it would be permissible because of the Reserve Bank of India’s circulars and directions having statutory force under section 21/35A of the Act, having been violated. 53. This Hon’ble Court has observed that an attempt of the courts, to intervene in the policy decisions taken by the Reserve Bank of India [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1509 Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corp. Ltd. v. Awaz & Ors. is to tread an unknown path. The National Commission has gone one step further, and while treading this unknown path has made casual passing remarks on the conduct of functions by the Reserve Bank of India, stating that “unfortunately, in our country, the regulator who is empowered under section 35A of the Banking Regulation has left it to absolute discretion of the banks”. We do not subscribe to the observation made by the Commission or the manner in which it has been made. 54. We have also considered all the circulars/notifications on credit card operations, up till 2022, issued by the RBI, which provide a comprehensive compendium of guidelines for Banks to carry out operations with respect to credit cards. This Court is certainly not going into the actuarial principles adopted by the Reserve Bank of India, as the basis to formulate its directives, but we are of the considered opinion that the RBI must have acted with prudence while giving the apparent discretion to the banks to decide the rates of interest. One of the directions in the annexures also includes “educating customers on the implication of paying only the minimum amount due” on credit cards. It has been carefully opined under the RBI instructions, for issue and action to be taken by banks, that “Banks should step up their efforts on educating the cardholders on the implications of paying only the ‘minimum amount due’. The MITC should specifically explain that the ‘free credit period’ is lost, if any balance of the previous month’s billing is outstanding.