In the ‘Notice’ invoking Arbitration, the ‘Operational Creditor’ has stated that there is an outstanding of 148 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Rs. 18,12,21,452/- and has further stated that they are ready to settle the disputes through Arbitration. A brief perusal of the documents on record evidence that the ‘Operational Creditor’ admitted that the contract was on lumpsum turnkey basis and stated in the Arbitration ‘Notice’ that the ‘Corporate Debtor’ had raised issues relating to non-adherence of the terms of the contract. xxx xxx xxx 21. The facts of the present case are being examined in the light of the law laid down by the Hon’ble Supreme Court, though the Learned Counsel for the ‘Operational Creditor’ has strenuously contended that the issuance of further work s and the Notice issued by the Operational Creditor invoking Arbitration does not amount to Existence of a Dispute’, the nature of communication on record with rival contentions clarify the ‘Existence of a Dispute’ between the parties prior to issuance of the Demand Notice. It has been time and again held that it is enough that a ‘dispute exists’ between the parties. 22. The communication between the parties as noted in para 10 read together with the Arbitration invoked by the ‘Operational Creditor’, we are of the considered view that there is an Existence of a Dispute between the parties which is a genuine dispute and not a spurious, patently feeble legal argument or an assertion of fact unsupported by evidence. Therefore, we are of the opinion that the ratio laid down by the Hon’ble Apex Court in the aforenoted ‘Mobilox Innovations (P) Ltd.’ (Supra) and ‘K. Kishan’ (Supra) is squarely applicable to the facts of this case.” (Emphasis supplied) 15. The respondent challenged the aforesaid of the NCLAT before this Court by filing the Civil Appeal No. 4583 of 2022. The appeal ultimately came to be dismissed by a two-Judge Bench vide dated 15.07.2022 wherein the of the NCLAT was upheld. The relevant observations made by this Court are reproduced below: "30. This Court finds that there was a pre-existing dispute with regard to the alleged claim of the appellant against [2024] 12 S.C.R. 149 M/s HPCL Bio-Fuels Ltd. v. M/s Shahaji Bhanudas Bhad HPCL or its subsidiary HBL. The NCLAT rightly allowed the appeal filed on behalf of HBL. It is not for this Court to adjudicate the disputes between the parties and determine whether, in fact, any amount was due from the appellant to the HPCL/HBL or vice-versa. The question is, whether the application of the Operational Creditor under Section 9 of the IBC, should have been admitted by the Adjudicating Authority. The answer to the aforesaid question has to be in the negative. The Adjudicating Authority (NCLT) clearly fell in error in admitting the application. 31. The NCLT, exercising powers under Section 7 or Section 9 of IBC, is not a debt collection forum. The IBC tackles and/or deals with insolvency and bankruptcy. It is not the object of the IBC that CIRP should be initiated to penalize solvent companies for non-payment of disputed dues claimed by an operational creditor.