3.3. In the meanwhile, the 2013 Act was enacted by the Parliament, thereby repealing the 1894 Act. This new legislation brought about various reforms to the land acquisition process. Importantly, Section 24 of the 2013 Act provided that land acquisition proceedings initiated under the earlier regime would be deemed to have lapsed in certain cases, including when compensation had not been paid or possession had not been taken. The provision reads as follows: “(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, in any case of land acquisition proceedings initiated under the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (1 of 1894),— (a) where no award under Section 11 of the said Land Acquisition Act has been made, then, all provisions of this Act relating to the determination of compensation shall apply; or (b) where an award under said Section 11 has been made, then such proceedings shall continue under the provisions of the said Land Acquisition Act, as if the said Act has not been repealed. (2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), in case of land acquisition proceedings initiated under the Land Acquisition Act, 1894, where an award under the said Section 11 has been made five years or more prior to the commencement of this Act but the physical possession of the land has not been taken or the compensation has not been paid the said proceedings shall be deemed to have lapsed and the appropriate Government, if it so chooses, shall initiate the proceedings of such land acquisition afresh in accordance with the provisions of this Act. Provided that where an award has been made and compensation in respect of a majority of land [2024] 5 S.C.R. 1235 Delhi Development Authority v. Tejpal & Ors. holdings has not been deposited in the account of the beneficiaries, then, all beneficiaries specified in the notification for acquisition under Section 4 of the said Land Acquisition Act, shall be entitled to compensation in accordance with the provisions of this Act” [emphasis supplied] 3.4. One of the first cases interpreting Section 24(2) of the 2013 Act was Pune Municipal Corporation v. Harak Chand Mistrimal Solanki,2 in which a three-judge bench of this Court held that offering payment to the landowner and depositing it with the Reference Court in case of certain contingencies under Section 31(2) of the 1894 Act, would fulfil the requirement of the compensation being “paid”.3 Accordingly, depositing compensation with the Government Treasury was held to not constitute payment of compensation for purposes of Section 24(2) of the 2013 Act and such land acquisition proceedings were held to have lapsed. 3.5. In a subsequent of Sree Balaji Nagar Residential Association v. State of Tamil Nadu,4 a two-judge bench of this Court further elucidated the concept of taking possession by holding that the period during which an of stay is in operation is not excluded by Section 24(2) of the 2013 Act. Consequently, this Court held that an operation of stay would not ameliorate a failure to take possession and that such acquisition proceedings would be deemed to have lapsed.