Justice Lokur followed the view of the majority in the State of Karnataka (supra)67 that a statute cannot be challenged for violating the basic structure doctrine. 55. From the above discussion, it can be concluded that a statute can be struck down only for the violation of Part III or any other provision of the Constitution or for being without legislative competence. The constitutional validity of a statute cannot be challenged for the violation of the basic structure of the Constitution. The reason is that concepts such as democracy, federalism, and secularism are undefined concepts. Allowing courts to strike down legislation for violation of such concepts will introduce an element of uncertainty in our constitutional adjudication. Recently, this Court has accepted that a challenge to the constitutional validity of a statute for violation of the basic structure is a technical aspect because the infraction has to be traced to the express provisions of the Constitution. Hence, in a challenge to the validity of a statute for violation of the principle of secularism, it must be shown that the statute violates provisions of the Constitution pertaining to secularism. 67 Supreme Court Advocates-on-Record Association (supra) [795] [“795. For the purposes of the present discussion, I would prefer to follow the view expressed by a Bench of seven learned Judges in State of Karnataka v. Union of India [State of Karnataka v. Union of India (1977) 4 SCC 608 (Seven-Judge Bench)] that it is only an amendment of the Constitution that can be challenged on the ground that it violates the basic structure of the Constitution—a statute cannot be challenged on the ground that it violates the basic structure of the Constitution. [The only exception to this perhaps could be a statute placed in the Ninth Schedule of the Constitution.] The principles for challenging the constitutionality of a statute are quite different.”] 404 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports c. Regulation of minority educational institutions 56. The right of minorities to administer educational institutions includes the right to manage the affairs of the institution in accordance with the ideas and interests of the community in general and the institution in particular.68 The right to administer minority educational institutions encompasses: (i) the right to constitute the managing or governing body; (ii) the right to appoint teachers; (iii) the right to admit students subject to reasonable regulations; and (iv) the right to use property and assets for the benefit of the institution.69 However, the right to administer minority educational institutions is not absolute. The right to administer educational institutions implies an obligation and duty of minority institutions to provide a standard of education to the students.70 The right to administer is, it is trite law, not the right to maladminister. 57. In re Kerala Education Bill 1957,71 this Court classified minority educational institutions into three categories: (i) those which do not seek either aid or recognition from the State; (ii) those which want aid; and (iii) those which want only recognition but not aid.