But the approval of the Bar Council of India can make the rule made by the State Bar Council valid and effective only if the rule made is within the competence of the State Bar Council, otherwise not. Mere approval 62 [1980] 3 SCR 946 : (1980) 4 SCC 211 63 Reiterated in Bar Council of Maharashtra and Goa v. Manubhai Paragji Vashi (2012) 1 SCC 314 [16] 1524 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports by the Bar Council of India to a rule ultra vires the State Bar Council cannot make the rule valid. Nor has it the effect of a rule made by the Bar Council of India. Making a rule by the Bar Council of India and giving approval to a rule made by the State Bar Council are two distinct and different things. One cannot take the place of the other.” 51. We can derive the following principles concerning the rule-making power of the SBCs under Section 15: (i) the SBCs can exercise rule- making powers only for the subject matters specified under Chapter II; (ii) although the SBCs have a broad rule-making power, it must be exercised to further the object and purpose of the Advocates Act; (iii) the SBCs cannot use their rule-making power under Section 15 with respect to subject matters on which the BCI has been granted exclusive power to make rules under the Advocates Act; and (iv) approval by the BCI to an invalid rule made by the SBCs cannot be deemed to validate the invalid rule. 52. The scope of the rule-making power of Bar Councils under Section 15 pertains to carrying “out the purposes of” Chapter II. As mentioned above, the purposes of Chapter II can be determined from Sections 3 to 14. Therefore, the scope of the rule-making power of Bar Councils under Section 15 extends to give effect to the provisions of Chapter II, namely, Sections 3 to 14. 53. Chapter III pertains to the admission and enrolment of advocates. As discussed in the earlier segment of this , the Advocates Act is a complete code for admission of advocates on the State roll. Section 28 empowers the SBCs to make rules to carry out the purposes of Chapter III. According to Section 28(2), the SBCs can make rules providing for the: (a) time within which and form in which an advocate shall express an intention for the entry of their name in the State roll under Section 20; (b) form in which an application shall be made to the SBCs for admission as an advocate and how such application shall be disposed of by the enrolment committee of the SBCs; (c) conditions subject to which a person may be admitted as an advocate; and (d) instalments in which the enrolment fee may be paid. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1525 Gaurav Kumar v. Union of India and Ors. 54. The admission of persons as advocates on the State roll is within the exclusive domain of the SBCs.64 The Advocates Act vests rule- making power under Section 28 with the SBCs, who are the chosen representatives of legal practitioners, to regulate and control the admission of people to the legal profession.