They have already reached a stage where on their own accord they should walk out of the special provisions and give way to the deserving and needy. I may gainfully refer to the observations of Dr. B.R. Ambedkar as under: “History shows that where ethics and economics come in conflict, victory is always with economics. Vested interests have never been known to have willingly divested themselves unless there was sufficient force to compel them.”28 295. I am therefore of the view that the State must evolve a policy for identifying the creamy layer even from the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes so as exclude them from the benefit of affirmative action. In my view, only this and this alone can achieve the real equality as enshrined under the Constitution. VII. CONCLUSION 296. I, therefore, hold: (i) that E.V. Chinnaiah, which held that sub-classification amongst the Scheduled Castes for the purpose of giving more beneficial treatment to a group in the larger group of the Scheduled Castes is not permissible, does not lay down a good law; (ii) that sub-classification amongst the Scheduled Castes for giving more beneficial treatment is permissible in law; (iii) that for doing so, the State will have to justify that the group for which more beneficial treatment is provided is inadequately represented as compared to the other castes in the said List; (iv) that while doing so, the State will have to justify the same on the basis of empirical data that a sub-class in whose favour 28 What Gandhi and Congress have done to Untouchables, Chap. VII. 1582 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports such more beneficial treatment is provided is not adequately represented; (v) that, however, while providing for sub-classification, the State would not be entitled to reserve 100% seats available for Scheduled Castes in favour of a sub-class to the exclusion of other castes in the List; (vi) that such a sub-classification would be permissible only if there is a reservation for a sub-class as well as the larger class; (vii) that the finding of M. Nagaraj, Jarnail Singh and Davinder Singh to the effect that creamy layer principle is also applicable to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes lays down the correct position of law; (viii) that the criteria for exclusion of the creamy layer from the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes for the purpose of affirmative action could be different from the criteria as applicable to the Other Backward Classes. 297. Before I part with the , I place on record my deep appreciation for the valuable assistance rendered by learned counsel appearing for the parties. Vikram Nath, J. 1. I am generally in agreement with the reasons and conclusions arrived at in the opinions of Hon’ble the Chief Justice and Brother Justice Gavai in particular that the holding in E.V.Chinnaih, that sub-classification within Scheduled Castes was impermissible, does not lay down good law and stands over-ruled. Further, any exercise involving sub-classification by the State must be supported by empirical data.