Abandonment by the claimant of his claim may be grounds for saying that the arbitral proceedings have become unnecessary. However, the abandonment must be established. Abandonment can be either express or implied. Abandonment cannot be readily inferred. One can say that there is an implied abandonment when admitted or proved facts are so clinching and convincing that the only inference which can be drawn is of the abandonment. Mere absence in proceedings or failure to participate does not, per se, amount to abandonment. Only if the established conduct of a claimant is such that it leads only to one conclusion that the claimant has given up, his/her claim can an inference of abandonment be drawn. Merely because a claimant, after filing his statement of claim, does not move the Arbitral Tribunal to fix a date for the hearing, it cannot be said that the claimant has abandoned his claim. The reason is that the Arbitral Tribunal has a duty to fix a date for a hearing. If the parties remain absent, the Arbitral Tribunal can take recourse to Section 25. 17. Now, coming to the facts of the case, we must note here that Sheil and Marico had filed separate suits. In the suit filed by Marico, an was passed on 13th October 2011, referring the dispute involved therein to the sole Arbitrator. Similarly, in the suit filed by Sheil, the of reference to the learned Arbitrator was passed on 17th November 2011. Therefore, by two separate s, two arbitral proceedings were ed to be initiated. In one proceeding, the claimant was Marico. The first appellant and Sheil were the respondents. In the other, Sheil was the claimant. The first appellant and Marico were the respondents. In fact, in the minutes of the preliminary meeting dated 8th November 2011, it is noted that the learned Arbitrator issued directions to Marico and Sheil to file their statements of claim. Therefore, even the learned Arbitrator proceeded on the footing that there were two distinct claimants and claims. They were directed to file their statements of claim in the respective arbitral proceedings. [2024] 6 S.C.R. 773 Dani Wooltex Corporation & Ors. v. Sheil Properties Pvt. Ltd. & Anr. After that, on 20th December 2011, the learned Arbitrator granted an extension of time to complete the pleadings. Both the claimants filed their respective statements of claim. The learned Arbitrator first conducted arbitral proceedings in which the claimant was Marico. Paragraph 10 of the award dated 6th May 2017 made on Marico’s claim is very relevant, which reads thus: “10. The 2nd Respondent has also filed a reply to the Statement of Claim. However, no evidence was led by the 2nd Respondent (either documentary or oral) nor was any argument addressed by the 2nd Respondent to me, although the 2nd Respondent was present at all hearings of this arbitration.” (emphasis added) The respondent no.2 before the Arbitral Tribunal was Sheil, as can be seen from the cause title of the award. Thus, Sheil was represented throughout before the Arbitral Tribunal during the hearing of the claim of Marico.