The objectives discernible from the long title and the Statement of Objects and Reasons of the IBC were discussed in a decision of a two-judge bench of this Court in Swiss Ribbons (P) Ltd. v. Union of India.23 This Court observed that the IBC is a beneficial 23 [2019] 3 SCR 535 : (2019) 4 SCC 17 1826 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports legislation which attempts to put the Corporate Debtor back on its feet. According to this Court, this would involve considering the interests of all concerned stakeholders rather than viewing the IBC as a mere recovery legislation for individual creditors. This Court, speaking through Justice RF Nariman, observed as follows: “28. It can thus be seen that the primary focus of the legislation is to ensure revival and continuation of the corporate debtor by protecting the corporate debtor from its own management and from a corporate death by liquidation. The Code is thus a beneficial legislation which puts the corporate debtor back on its feet, not being a mere recovery legislation for creditors. The interests of the corporate debtor have, therefore, been bifurcated and separated from that of its promoters/ those who are in management. Thus, the resolution process is not adversarial to the corporate debtor but, in fact, protective of its interests. The moratorium imposed by Section 14 is in the interest of the corporate debtor itself, thereby preserving the assets of the corporate debtor during the resolution process. The timelines within which the resolution process is to take place again protects the corporate debtor’s assets from further dilution, and also protects all its creditors and workers by seeing that the resolution process goes through as fast as possible so that another management can, through its entrepreneurial skills, resuscitate the corporate debtor to achieve all these ends.” (emphasis supplied) 38. A two-judge Bench of this Court, speaking through one of us (DY Chandrachud, J), in Arun Kumar Jagatramka v Jindal Steel & Power Ltd24 also had occasion to observe the quantum change in corporate governance and the rule of law brought in by the enactment of the IBC. This Court observed as follows: “41. … First and foremost, the IBC perceives good corporate governance, respect for and adherence to the rule of law as central to the resolution of corporate 24 [2021] 3 SCR 114 : (2021) 7 SCC 474 [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1827 GLAS Trust Company LLC v. BYJU Raveendran & Ors. insolvencies. Second, the IBC perceives corporate insolvency not as an isolated problem faced by individual business entities but places it in the context of a framework which is founded on public interest in facilitating economic growth by balancing diverse stakeholder interests. Third, the IBC attributes a primacy to the business decisions taken by creditors acting as a collective body, on the premise that the timely resolution of corporate insolvency is necessary to ensure the growth of credit markets and encourage investment. Fourth, in its diverse provisions, the IBC ensures that the interests of corporate enterprises are not conflated with the interests of their promoters; the economic value of corporate structures is broader in content than the partisan interests of their managements.