Lastly, in N. Radhakrishnan v. Union of India,70 it was again held that the Court must not be guided by the sensitivity of a pervert viewer and the setting of the whole work, its purpose, and the constituent elements of the character must be kept in mind while judging for obscenity.71 30. Application of the principles in the above-referred precedents to the facts of the present case: The purpose of elaborately tracing the precedents on Section 292 is to identify the essential content of the offence of obscenity, the test and the standard by which the allegedly offending material must be judged, and the oral and documentary evidences and the process that the court must rely on and follow for arriving at its conclusion. 31. For applying the test for obscenity to the allegedly offending portions of the web-series, it is important to take note of the approach adopted by the High Court. 32. The High Court purportedly applied the community standard test as laid down in Aveek Sarkar (supra) to arrive at its conclusion.72 It correctly states the position of law that to determine whether certain content is obscene, the standard of determination is that of an ordinary common person and not a hypersensitive person.73 33. Wrong question, wrong answer: However, the High Court has incorrectly framed the question for inquiry. The issue framed by the High Court is whether the language employed in the episode is contemporarily used by the youth and whether it meets the threshold of decency. The High Court has framed the question for inquiry in the following terms: “29. As stated above, this Court had watched a few episodes of the web series “College Romance” and the episode in question to decide the case more effectively and fairly. The intent behind watching the said web series was to analyze fairly as to whether the contention raised on behalf of the petitioners that the language used in the 70 [2018] 11 SCR 1 : (2018) 9 SCC 725 : 2018 INSC 784 71 ibid, para 33 72 Impugned , paras 21 and 22 73 ibid, para 28 [2024] 3 S.C.R. 1173 Apoorva Arora & Anr. Etc. v. State (Govt. of Nct of Delhi) & Anr. web series is “in language”, or is “language used by new generation in colleges”, or “the students in law colleges and the younger generation in colleges uses this language only”, is without merit or not. 30. This Court also wanted to test/examine the test of a common prudent man in practicality, acting itself as a common prudent person, so as to check as to whether such language, in fact, can be heard by a common prudent man without being embarrassed or finding it against decency or against the concept of decency…” (emphasis supplied) 34. From a plain reading of Section 67 and the material that is characterised as ‘obscene’ therein, it is clear that the High Court posed the wrong question, and it has naturally arrived at a wrong answer.