In this case the earlier judgement of this court in Sangeet was approved. (b) In Sangeet, it was observed that a convict undergoing a sentence does not have a right to get remission of sentence, however, he certainly does have a right to have his case considered for the grant of remission as held in Mahender Singh and Jagdish. It was further observed in the said case that there does not seem to be any decision of this Court detailing the procedure to be followed for the exercise of power under Section 432 of the CrPC which only lays down the basic procedure i.e. by making an application to the appropriate Government for the suspension or remission of a sentence, either by the convict or someone on his behalf. It was observed that sub-section (1) of Section 432 of the CrPC is only an enabling provision to override a judicially pronounced sentence, subject to the fulfilment of certain conditions. These conditions are found either in the Jail Manual or in statutory rules. It was pertinently observed that when an application for remission is made the appropriate Government may take a decision on the remission application and pass s granting remission subject to certain conditions or, refuse remission. But there has to be an application of mind on the remission application so as to eliminate discretionary en-masse release of convicts on “festive” occasions, since each release requires a case by case scrutiny. It was observed that [2024] 1 S.C.R. 873 Bilkis Yakub Rasool v. Union of India & Others the power of remission cannot be exercised arbitrarily and the decision to grant remission has to be well informed, reasonable and fair to all concerned. The statutory procedure under Section 432 of the CrPC provides a check on the possible misuse of power of the appropriate Government. (i) It was further observed that there is a misconception that a prisoner serving a life sentence has an indefeasible right to be released on completion of fourteen years or twenty years of imprisonment; however, in reality, the prisoner has no such right. A convict undergoing life imprisonment is expected to remain in custody till the end of his life, subject to any remission granted by the appropriate Government under Section 432 of the CrPC which, in turn, is subject to the procedural checks in that section and the substantive check in Section 433-A of the CrPC. That the application of Section 432 of the CrPC to a convict is limited inasmuch as, a convict serving a definite term of imprisonment is entitled to earn a period of remission under a statutory rule framed by the appropriate Government or under the Jail Manual. The said period is then offset against the term of punishment given to him. Thus, upon completion of the requisite period of incarceration, a prisoner’s release is automatic. However, Section 432 of the CrPC will apply only when a convict is to be given an “additional” period of remission for his release i.e., the period to what he has earned as per the Jail Manual or the statutory rules.