2139 State Bank of India & Ors. v. The Consortium of Mr. Murari Lal Jalan and Mr. Florian Fritsch & Anr. the amount available in the bank account of the Corporate Debtor would be insufficient to cover the parking charges, rental charges etc which also form a part of the CIRP costs. Since such a bank balance would not cover the parking charge, rental charges, employee dues, taxes etc, the Resolution Plan had set apart a separate sum of Rs. 25 Crore for the payment of any such CIRP costs which might have accrued till the Approval Date. Further, the other expenses including parking charges, rental charges etc. which have been incurred post the Approval Date but within the Effective Date i.e., the period during which the Conditions Precedent would be fulfilled, would also be incurred out of the positive bank balance of the Corporate Debtor. This is what Clause 6.4.1(h) provides for. To hold that Clause 6.4.1(h) excludes airport dues from the scope of CIRP costs altogether would also question the placement of clauses such as Clauses 6.4.1(f) (which provides for an estimate of Rs. 240 Crore towards parking charges) under the larger umbrella of Clause 6.4.1 which deals with the “Treatment of Outstanding CIRP Costs” in totality. 129. Therefore, what the Resolution Plan contemplates is that the Airport Charges be subsumed within the CIRP Dues and since all of the different CIRP dues cannot be satisfied through the bank balance which stands to the credit of the Corporate Debtor, a separate sum of Rs. 25 Crore was demarcated towards the remaining CIRP payments. Hence, the NCLAT was right in arriving at the conclusion that Airport Dues were indeed a part of the CIRP costs. 130. It must further be noted that, the impugned of the NCLAT nowhere caps the Airport Dues to a maximum of Rs. 25 Crore. Moreover, such a mention of Rs. 25 Crore is plainly absent in its observations regarding Airport Dues. All that is mentioned is that “The payment of Airport Charges has to be made as per the Resolution Plan when the implementation of the plan commences as per the Resolution Plan”. It is in this regard that Clause 6.4.1(j) provides that if the CIRP costs exceed the current estimates, then they will be paid as per “actuals” in compliance with the provisions of the IBC and as a consequence, the pay-outs towards the other creditors would be reduced proportionately to account for such additional CIRP costs. This would be subject to a minimum payment of liquidation value to the Operational Creditors and Dissenting Financial Creditors of the Corporate Debtor and subject to a maximum of Rs. 475 Crore. Therefore, the Resolution Plan, too, does not contemplate the CIRP 2140 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports costs to be strictly subject to a maximum of Rs. 25 Crore. To accept such a contention of the Appellants would be to misinterpret the observations made in the impugned . 131. The Appellants rely on Clause 6.3.1(d), specifically under the heading “BKC Property not part of Resolution” to assert that the Airport Dues have to be settled upfront and in full in the first 180 days from the Effective Date and that it cannot be in staggered payments spread across a period of time.