Therefore, his responsibility is onerous. He is expected to follow the instructions of his client rather than substitute his . Thus, a considerable amount of direct control is exercised by the Client over the manner in which an Advocate renders his services during the course of his employment. All of these attributes strengthen our opinion that the services hired or availed of an Advocate would be that of a contract ‘of personal service’ and would therefore stand excluded from the definition of “service” contained in the section 2(42) of the CP Act, 2019. As a necessary corollary, a complaint alleging “deficiency in service” against Advocates practising Legal Profession would not be maintainable under the CP Act, 2019. 42. In that view of the matter, we summarize our conclusions as under- (i) The very purpose and object of the CP Act 1986 as re-enacted in 2019 was to provide protection to the consumers from unfair trade practices and unethical business practices, and the Legislature never intended to include either the Professions or the services rendered by the Professionals within the purview of the said Act of 1986/2019. (ii) The Legal Profession is sui generis i.e. unique in nature and cannot be compared with any other Profession. (iii) A service hired or availed of an Advocate is a service under “a contract of personal service,” and therefore would fall within the exclusionary part of the definition of “Service” contained in Section 2 (42) of the CP Act 2019. (iv) A complaint alleging “deficiency in service” against Advocates practising Legal Profession would not be maintainable under the CP Act, 2019. 43. The impugned passed by the NCDRC is set aside. The Appeals stand allowed accordingly. 44. Before parting, we appreciate and place on record the valuable assistance and services rendered by the learned Senior Advocate Mr. V. Giri appointed as an Amicus Curiae in these matters. [2024] 6 S.C.R. 523 Bar of Indian Lawyers Through its President Jasbir Singh Malik v. D. K. Gandhi PS National Institute of Communicable Diseases and Anr. Pankaj Mithal, J. 1. The moot question which emanates from the proceedings at hand, if put in a different way, is whether the legal services of the lawyer availed of by the client would be covered under the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 (now Consumer Protection Act, 2019). 2. It is well recognized that the profession of law is a noble profession having an element of duty towards the court. Lawyers perform multi-faceted duties. They not only have a duty towards the client or their opponents but they have a paramount duty to assist the court as well. In a way, they are officers as well as ambassadors of the court. Thus, in rendering such kind of a duty to enable the courts to come to a just conclusion, it may be possible that at times, the lawyers may earn displeasure of the client while assisting the court. 3. The profession of law, as such, is regarded as sui generis i.e. which is unique.