2.6.2 In regard to the question of whether the parties have become sufficiently hinduised reference was made to Smt Butaki Bai & Ors. v. Sukhbati & Ors. In the present facts, it was held: “The plaintiffs neither in the plaint nor in their evidence particularised the prevalent tribal customs except pleadings some ceremonies of marriage in their caste. It has neither been pleaded nor proved that they have abandoned their law of origin (customary law) and they have given up their customary succession and did not state anything so as to be governed by in their matter of succession and inheritance by any school of hindu law…” 2.6.3 In the aforesaid backdrop, the Court invoked the Central Provinces Laws Act, 1875 and in particular Sections 5 and 6 thereof. Referring to the of this Court in M.V. Elisabeth and Others v. Harwan Investments and Trading Pvt. Ltd. Hanoekar House, Swatontapeth, Vasco-De-Gama, Goa,5 as also certain other authorities, the Court invoked the principles of justice, equity and good conscience to hold that the legal representatives of Mardan, i.e. his daughters and their successors-in- interest, would be entitled to half share in the total suit property. The appeal was partly allowed in these terms. 2.7 It is with this background that the present appeal has come up for consideration before this Court. OUR CONSIDERATION 3. The parties to the present lis claim to be Hindus and therefore ask that they be governed by Hindu law in matters of inheritance. The High Court has disallowed this contention on the ground that the parties 5 (1993) Supp. 2 SCC 433 [2024] 12 S.C.R. 671 Tirith Kumar & Ors. v. Daduram & Ors. are members of the Sawara tribe, which is a notified tribe under Article 342 of the Constitution of India. The constitutional position in regard to Articles 341 and 342, which deal with scheduled castes and tribes, respectively, has been delineated by a Constitution Bench of this Court in M.R. Balaji v. State of Mysore 6 in the following terms: “20. …It was realised that in the Indian Society there were other classes of citizens who were equally, or may be somewhat less, backward than the Scheduled Castes and Tribes and it was thought that some special provision ought to be made even for them. Article 34(1) provides for the issue of public notification specifying the castes, races or tribes which shall, for the purposes of this Constitution, be deemed to be Scheduled Castes either in the State or the Union territory as the case may be. Similarly Article 342 makes a provision for the issue of public notification in respect of Scheduled Tribes. Under Article 338(3), it is provided that references to the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes shall be construed as including references to such other Backward Classes as the President may, on receipt of the report of a commission appointed under Article 340(1) by , specify and also to the Anglo-Indian community. It would thus be seen that this provision contemplates that some Backward Classes may by the Presidential be included in Scheduled Castes and Tribes.” We may also notice the observations in State of Maharashtra v. Milind 7 in this context: “11.