10. Although Article 131 does not defines the scope of the disputes which this Court may be called upon to determine in the same way as Section 204 of the Government of India Act, and we do not find it necessary to do so this much is certain that the legal right which is the subject of dispute must arise in the context of the constitution and the Federalism it sets up. However, there can be no doubt that so far as the parties to the dispute are concerned, the framers of the Constitution did intend that they could only be the constituent units of the Union of India and the Government of India itself arrayed on one side or the other either singly or jointly with another unit or the Government of India. ……………… 18. It was argued by counsel on behalf of the State of Bihar that so far as the Hindustan Steel Limited, is concerned it is “State” and the suits in which the Government of India along with Hindustan Steel Limited, have been impleaded are properly filed within Article 131 of the Constitution triable by this Court in its original jurisdiction. Reference was made to the case of Rajasthan State Electricity Board v. Mohan Lal [1967 3 SCR 377] . There the question arose between certain persons who were permanent 694 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports employees of the Government of the State of Rajasthan and later placed at the disposal of the State Electricity Board and one of the questions was whether the appellant Board could be held to be “State” as defined in Article 12. This Court by a majority held that the Board was “other authority” within the meaning of Article 12 and therefore was a “state” to which appropriate directions could be given under Articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution. It will be noted that under Article 12 all local or other authorities within the territory of India or under the control of the Government of India are “States” for purposes of Part III which defines and deals with the Fundamental Rights enshrined in the Constitution. The expression “the State” has the same meaning in Part IV of the Constitution under Article 36. No reason was shown as to why the enlarged definition of “State” given in Parts III and IV of the Constitution would be attracted to Article 131 of the Constitution and in our opinion a body like the Hindustan Steel Limited cannot be considered to be “a State” for the purpose of Article 131 of the Constitution.” [emphasis supplied] 33. It could be seen that this Court held that the express words of clauses (a), (b) and (c) of Article 131 of the Constitution exclude the idea of a private citizen, a firm or a corporation figuring as a disputant either alone or even along with a State or with the Government of India in the category of a party to the dispute. It has been held that the framers of the Constitution did not contemplate a dispute in which a private citizen, a firm or a corporation is in any way involved as a fit subject for adjudication by this Court under its exclusive original jurisdiction conferred by Article 131 of the Constitution.