(1A) Where the Court grants an interim under sub-section (1), it shall forthwith cause a notice being not less than seven days notice, together with a copy of such to be served on the Public Prosecutor and the Superintendent of Police, with a view to give the Public Prosecutor a reasonable opportunity of being heard when the application shall be finally heard by the Court, (1B) The presence of the applicant seeking anticipatory bail shall be obligatory at the time of final hearing of the application and passing of final by the Court, if on an application made to it by the Public Prosecutor, the [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1107 Shajan Skaria v. The State of Kerala & Anr. Court considers such presence necessary in the interest of justice.] (2) When the High Court or the Court of Session makes a direction under sub-section (1), it may include such conditions in such directions in the light of the facts of the particular case, as it may think fit, including– (i) a condition that the person shall make himself available for interrogation by a police officer as and when required; (ii) a condition that the person shall not, directly or indirectly, make any inducement, threat or promise to any person acquainted with the facts of the case so as to dissuade him from disclosing such facts to the Court or to any police officer; (iii) a condition that the person shall not leave India without the previous permission of the Court; (iv) such other condition as may be imposed under sub- section (3) of section 437, as if the bail were granted under that section. (3) If such person is thereafter arrested without warrant by an officer in charge of a police station on such accusation, and is prepared either at the time of arrest or at any time while in the custody of such officer to give bail, he shall be released on bail; and if a Magistrate taking cognizance of such offence decides that a warrant should be issued in the first instance against that person, he shall issue a bailable warrant in conformity with the direction of the Court under sub-section (1). [(4) Nothing in this section shall apply to any case involving the arrest of any person on accusation of having committed an offence under sub-section (3) of section 376 or section 376AB or section 376DA or section 376DB of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860).] Section 120 of the KP Act: Penalty for causing nuisance and violation of public .— 1108 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports If any person,— … (o) causing, through any means of communication, a nuisance of himself to any person by repeated or undesirable or anonymous call, letter, writing, message, e-mail or through a messenger ; … shall, on conviction, be punishable with imprisonment which may extend to one year or with fine which may extend to five thousand rupees or with both. F. ISSUES FOR DETERMINATION 13. Having heard the learned counsel appearing for the parties and having gone through the materials on record, the following issues fall for our consideration: a.