Hence, while computing compensation the approach of the Tribunal or a court has to be broad based. Needless to say, it would involve some guesswork as there cannot be any mathematical exactitude or a precise formula to determine the quantum of compensation. In determination of compensation the 5 [1980] 2 SCR 873 : (1980) 3 SCC 141 6 [2012] 11 SCR 414 : (2012) 12 SCC 274 878 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports fundamental criterion of “just compensation” should be inhered.” 22. Not too long ago, in CPL Ashish Kumar Chauhan (supra), this Court while awarding compensation to a person discharged from the Indian Air Force, ruled: “103. ***People sign up to join the armed forces with considerable enthusiasm and a sense of patriotic duty. This entails a conscious decision to put their lives on the line and be prepared for the ultimate sacrifice of their lives. A corresponding duty is cast upon all state functionaries, including echelons of power within the armed forces to ensure that the highest standards of safety (physical/ mental wellbeing, medical fitness as well as wellness) are maintained. This is absolutely the minimum required of the military/air force employer for not only assuring the morale of the forces but also showing the sense of how such personnel matter and their lives count, which reinforces their commitment and confidence. Any flagging from these standards - as the multiple instances in the present case have established, only entails a loss of confidence in the personnel, undermines their morale and injects a sense of bitterness and despair not only to the individual concerned but to the entire force, leaving a sense of injustice. When a young person, from either sex (as is now a days the case) enrols or joins any armed forces, at all times, their expectation is to be treated with dignity and honour. The present case has demonstrated again and again how dignity, honour and compassion towards the appellant were completely lacking in behaviour by the respondent employer. Repeatedly the record displays a sense of disdain, and discrimination, even a hint of stigma, attached to the appellant, in the attitude of the respondent employer. Although this court has attempted to give tangible relief, at the end of the day it realizes that no amount of compensation in monetary terms can undo the harm caused by such behaviour which has shaken the foundation of the appellant›s dignity, robbed him of honour and rendered him not only desperate even cynical.” [2024] 3 S.C.R. 879 Satyanand Singh v. Union of India & Ors. 23. It has been submitted by the counsel for the appellant that he is presently aged 50 years and is into a small business of his own. Having considered the plight of the appellant, which his employer failed to address, as well as the social stigma attached to persons who are diagnosed as HIV+ve patients, coupled with the position that the appellant’s reinstatement in service is not an available option now and also that direction for grant of pension, which we propose to make, cannot be considered an equitable restitution of what the appellant has suffered by reason of psychological, financial and physical trauma, we deem it fit to additionally award him monetary compensation.