663 The Tehsildar, Urban Improvement Trust And Anr. v. Ganga Bai Menariya (Dead) Through Lrs. And Others of private negotiation in case any person has a plausible claim of title and auction may not fetch reasonable price, where for reasons to be recorded in writing, the Panchayat thinks that auction would not be convenient mode for disposal or where such a course is regarded by the Panchayat for advancement of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes or other Backward Classes. 23. In Chapter XIII of the 1961 Rules, complete procedure has been provided for sale of abadi land. 23.1. Rule 255 defines ‘abadi land’ to mean nazul land lying within the inhabited areas of Panchayat circle. 23.2. Under Rule 256, a person desirous of purchasing the abadi land can file an application in writing along with requisite fee. 23.3. On receipt of application, in terms of Rule 257, a plan of the land in question is to be prepared specifying the boundaries of the land to be sold. 23.4. After the plan is ready, local inspection of the site is to be made by three nominated Panchs who will submit their opinion on the following issues: (a) whether the sale applied for will affect the facilities for going and coming enjoyed by the villagers; (b) whether such sale will affect the rights of easements owned by other persons; (c) whether such sale will affect beauty and cleanliness of the locality; and (d) such other matters as may appear to be relevant (Rule 258). 23.5. A provisional decision is to be taken by the Panchayat as to whether the proposed sale should or should not be made (Rule 259). 23.6. If the decision is to sell the land, public notice is to be issued on Form ‘L’ inviting objections to the proposed sale (Rule 260). 23.7. Objections, if any, received are to be dispose of after affording opportunity of hearing to the objector (Rule 261). 664 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 23.8. If no objections are received, the Panchayat shall pass a resolution and for sale of the land by auction and date and time thereof shall be fixed (Rule 262). 23.9. The procedure for auction, deposit of earnest money, confirmation of sale have been provided in Rules 262 and 265. 23.10. Rule 266 provides for transfer of abadi land by private negotiations in certain specified situations, namely: (a) where any person has a plausible claim of the title of the land and the auction may not fetch reasonable price; (b) where for the reasons to be recorded in writing, the Panchayat opines that auction may not be convenient mode for disposal of land; (c) where such a course is regarded by the Panchayat necessary for advancement of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes or other backward classes; and (d) where the persons are in possession of abadi land for 20 years or more but less than 42 years. 24. In the aforesaid situation, the land can be transferred by passing a resolution by the Panchayat.