In other words, there is no ‘arbitration agreement’ between them either in the form of an arbitration clause in a contract or in the form of a separate agreement in terms of sub- sections (2) to (5) of section 7 of the Act, 1996. In fact, there is no contract at all between them and consequently, there is no privity of contract between the Petitioners and SRG Group in any manner whatsoever. 44. It was also submitted that bringing non-signatories within the scope of the arbitration agreement is an exception and not the rule. In support of this, the counsel relied on the decision of this Court in Cox & Kings (supra). Further, it was submitted that a dual test has to be satisfied to compel the SRG Group to be a party to the present arbitration proceedings i.e., (a) SRG Group should be shown to have agreed to the underlying contract and (b) SRG Group should also be shown to have agreed to be bound by the arbitration agreement. Both the conditions are not satisfied. A vague awareness of the JRS and AMP Groups being in negotiations or the mere marking of emails relating thereto to a member of the SRG Group cannot imply consent. It was submitted that the SRG Group is neither a consensual or non-consensual participant in the arbitration proceedings arising out of the FAA nor have any of the aforementioned consensual or non-consensual theories been invoked by the petitioners. To compel a party to arbitration in respect of a family arrangement despite the fact that they are not a member of the family would sound the death knell to the concept of party autonomy and freedom of contract. 45. The counsel submitted that apart from co-ownership or common shareholding in Millenium and Deegee, the SRG Group has no business relationship or dealings or common interest with either of the other groups. Since the subject-matter in question is with respect to the implementation of the FAA, there is no doubt that the same can be effectively implemented without the participation of the SRG Group in the arbitration proceedings. Without prejudice to the above, the counsel submitted that severing the only two sub-clauses that [2024] 9 S.C.R. 923 Ajay Madhusudan Patel & Ors. v. Jyotrindra S. Patel & Ors. merely make a reference to the SRG Group, without placing any obligation thereupon i.e., Clauses 2.1.4 and 2.1.6 would in no way impact the implementation of the FAA. 46. It was submitted that the negotiations leading to the signing of the FAA were initiated at the behest of one Premji Group in the BVC deal that took place between the Premji Group, the JRS Group and other shareholders. Surprisingly, despite disputes having arisen regarding a similar exit of the JRS Group from BVC, neither BVC nor the Premji Group have been roped in as participants in the FAA. However, the AMP Group, for reasons best known to itself, has sought participation of the SRG Group on the feeble pretext of ensuring exits from Millenium and Deegee.