Act. As noticed hereinbefore in this case, the question of territorial jurisdiction was decided by the Tribunal after about 4 years since the filing of the claim petition and the appeal filed in 2010 was dismissed, confirming the dismissal of the claim petition after about 6 years. We have also already noted that in the case on 1220 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports hand a great illegality or error has been committed by the Tribunal even after observing that it got no occasion to examine the other six issues but then deciding those six issues against the claimant and in favour of the opposite parties. Since a Claims Tribunal constituted under Section 165, M.V. Act even when lacking territorial jurisdiction cannot be said to be lacking jurisdiction on the subject matter in a claim petition and the award would not be a nullity and therefore, the findings on other issues would be binding on the parties. Hence, in the first instance, failure of justice occurred as the award of the Tribunal virtually rendered the claimant remediless. In cases of this nature, sometimes a remand may also be a futility as passage of such long period may make witnesses unavailable for examination or re-examination for various reasons. Such reasons may also include death of the witness(s). Since the present imbroglio is created because of a mistake or error on the part of the Tribunal, either in proceeding further after returning a negative finding on the question of territorial jurisdiction or in not pronouncing award on all issues, we are of the considered view that the said mistake not entering on merits and into a findings on issues No.1 to 4, 6 and 7 at paragraph 21 against the claimant and in favour of the opposite parties without examining them on merits and hence, they are liable to be set aside in the light of the salutary maxim ‘Actus Curiae neminem gravabit’, as no party shall be put to suffer for the mistake of a Court. 29. We have already referred to the provision under XIV, Rule 2, CPC, observed and held while in certain circumstances it would be inevitable to pronounce /award on all issues as mandated thereunder. We are not oblivious of the provision under Section 169 of the M.V. Act. In this regard, it is apt to refer to paragraph 15 of the decision in Mantoo Sarkar’s case (supra) where this Court held as under:- “15. No doubt the Tribunal must exercise jurisdiction having regard to the ingredients laid down under sub-section (2) of Section 166 of the Act. We are not unmindful of the fact that in terms of Section 169 of the Act, the Tribunal, subject to any rules, may follow a summary procedure and the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure under the Act have a limited application but in terms of the rules “save and except” any specific provision made in that behalf, the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure [2024] 2 S.C.R.