However, every such Judge may elect to receive the pension payable either under Part I or Part III of the Schedule. 4. Section 20 governs the payment of Provident Fund and is in the following terms: 1 Act of 1954 2 14. Pension payable to Judges.—Subject to the provisions of this Act, every Judge shall, on his retirement, be paid a pension in accordance with the scale and provisions in Part I of the First Schedule: Provided that no such pension shall be payable to a Judge unless— (a) he has completed not less than twelve years of service for pension; or (b) he has attained the age of sixty-two years; or (c) his retirement is medically certified to be necessitated by ill-health: Provided further that if a Judge at the time of his appointment is in receipt of a pension (other than a disability or wound pension) in respect of any previous service in the Union or a State, the pension payable under this Act shall be in lieu of, and not in addition to, that pension. Explanation.—In this section “Judge” means a Judge who has not held any other pensionable post under the Union or a State and includes a Judge who having held any other pensionable post under the Union or a State has elected to receive the pension payable under Part I of the First Schedule. 1046 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “20. Provident Fund.—Every Judge shall be entitled to subscribe to the General Provident Fund (Central Services): Provided that a Judge who has held any other pensionable civil post under the Union or a State shall continue to subscribe to the Provident Fund to which he was subscribing before his appointment as a Judge.” 5. After the petitioners were appointed as judges of the High Court, no steps were taken by the authorities to open a General Provident Fund account as a consequence of which, on their retirement, they have not received any terminal benefit pertaining to the provident fund. The scope of the controversy, in the present case, turns on the interpretation of the provisions of Section 20. Submissions 6. Mr K Parameshwar, Amicus Curiae, has broadly addressed the Court on three propositions: (i) The provisions of the Constitution and of the statute governing the conditions of service of sitting and former judges must be construed from the perspective of providing financial independence both at the institutional and individual level; (ii) There must be uniformity of the service conditions of High Court judges both during service and after retirement and the intent underlying Article 221 would be defeated by making a distinction between the conditions of service available to judges (and former judges) of the High Court based on their source of recruitment; and (iii) All judges of the High Court constitute one single class as defined in Article 216 and Article 221, irrespective of the source of appointment and in consequence, the principle of non- discrimination in regard to the conditions of service must apply.