The cascading ramifications of accepting the Petitioners’ stand on federalism and national harmony would be significant, deleterious and not improbable. 301. The Petitioners further asserted that the influx of migrants from East Pakistan has led to a substantial acquisition of land and scarce resources by these immigrants, consequently resulting in the marginalization of the original Assamese inhabitants within their own territory. It was their specific contention that such acquisition not only poses a threat to Assamese people but specifically to the culture and heritage of endangered tribes in Assam. 302. Though the material on record does not substantiate such claim, regardless thereto, such a plea has no legally sustainable foundation. All citizens have the right to own property and, unless restricted by statute or other law, they are free to enter into private land transactions. Once such a transaction has taken place between two private individuals, this Court cannot set the clock back in the teeth of Article 300A of the Constitution merely because when seen collectively it results in a pattern of land ownership which is considered undesirable by some other groups. Simultaneously, individual allegations of involuntary land transactions are best not dealt with us, considering that we are examining a question of constitutional interpretation, while sitting in writ jurisdiction. 303. At this stage, and given the restricted ambit of the present proceedings, this Court cannot embark on a complex or microscopic fact-finding exercise to determine whether factually there has been any cultural erosion as alleged by the Petitioners. 304. We thus sum up our analysis of the Petitioners’ claim under Article 29, holding that though they have the standing to make such a claim 1122 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports but on the facts of the present case, they have failed to show either an actionable impact on Assamese culture, or trace the cause of it to Section 6A. On the contrary, Section 6A when read along with the larger statutory regime surrounding citizenship and immigration, mandates timely detection and deportation of illegal immigrants, a large portion of whom entered Assam post-1971. Seen from this perspective, it is the non-implementation of the statutory regime which is the cause of the Petitioners’ concerns; their attack on the constitutionality of Section 6A is misplaced. viii. Article 21 and Section 6A 305. The Petitioners contended that Section 6A is violative of Article 21 because it infringes upon the rights of the ‘indigenous’ Assamese community. They argued that immigration has led to the marginalization and disruption of their socio-economic aspirations. Further, relying on Article 1 of ICCPR, they urged that their right of self-governance is being violated by Section 6A. Lastly, the Petitioners claimed that the inclusion of an unidentified migrant population burdens the country’s natural resources, particularly impacting the citizens residing in a State and hindering sustainable development, along with depriving the Assamese community from enjoying the full spectrum of socio-economic rights. 306. Per contra, the Respondents argued that instead of contravening Article 21, Section 6A enforces the same because foreigners’ rights are also protected thereunder.