(7) Where the land has been acquired for the Trust, the State Government shall, after it has taken possession of the land and on payment by the Trust of the amount of compensation determined under Section 53, on the amount of interest thereon, and of the other charges incurred by the State Government in connection with the acquisition, transfer the land to the Trust for the purpose for which the land has been acquired.” [Emphasis supplied] 56. The provisions of the Section 52(2) are akin to Section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894. To initiate the acquisition proceedings, the State must publish a notice under Section 52(2) of the RUI Act for the owners or any other interested parties to show cause as to why their land should not be acquired. 57. As regards the validity of the notification under Section 52(1) for the acquisition of the Nangli Kota lands and procedural deviation as alleged by the respondents, we observe the following: 1026 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports a) It is an admitted fact by both the parties that there were no individual notices served upon the owners as required under Section 52(2) nor was the notice of the proposed acquisition pasted on some conspicuous space in the locality where the property was situated. The State Government had only published the notice under Section 52(2) in the official gazette. b) The object of issuing a notice under Section 52(2) prior to a notification under Section 52(1) is to allow the owners and interested parties to put forth their case as to why a land proposed to be acquired should not be acquired or to make representations regarding the amount of compensation. A deviation from the process prescribed runs the risk of prejudicing the rights of the landowners and should be discouraged. c) A plain reading of Section 52(2) shows that the legislature considered publication of notice in the official gazette and pasting of the same in conspicuous areas of the locality is considered to be sufficient notice. These requirements are akin to the ones under Section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act. The requirement of individual notices to be served upon the owners is an additional measure taken by the legislature to safeguard the rights of the landowners. While the State Government ought to have complied with this measure, we cannot say that non-compliance therewith can make the whole acquisition proceedings infructuous. d) However, a reading of Section 52(2) shows that the conditions of publication of notice in the official gazette and pasting the same at a conspicuous area of the locality are together considered to be sufficient notice and fulfilment of just one requirement out of the two risked causing prejudice to the respondents herein. e) What remains to be seen is whether the improper service of notice did in fact deprive the respondents from making their representations and objections to the acquisition proceedings. The documents placed on record show that the seven sons of late Ram Narain participated in the proceedings before the OSD and were aware that the Nangli Kota lands were proposed to be acquired.