Of the said posts, we are concerned with the recruitment to 18 posts in the department of Home Science. Following the advertisement, the appellants in the lead matter and two other connected matters, having the required qualification, were selected to the post of Home Science lecturer on 23.09.2008. In the meanwhile, respondent no. 8 approached the Tribunal seeking quashing of the notification by filing an Application on the ground that the breakup of the specialised subjects within Home Science are not specified in the notification. There was no interim passed by the Tribunal, but the recruitment was made subject to the outcome of the Application. 5. The Application was finally taken up for hearing and the Tribunal by its dated 12.06.2009 allowed the same and quashed the advertisement dated 24.12.2007. The Tribunal held that – (i) Home Science is not a subject, but a course which comprises of different subjects; (ii) in the past, KPSC had released notifications specifying vacancies against each specialisation, and appointments were also made after notifying vacancies against each specialisation; and (iii) if posts are not filled up subject-wise, and a lecturer possessing degree in Home Science in a particular subject is made to teach students in another subject, the education of the students would suffer. 6. Questioning the legality and validity of the Tribunal’s decision, the appellants, who were successfully appointed candidates and KPSC filed Writ Petitions before the High Court. By the impugned herein, the High Court dismissed the said Petitions. The reasoning of the High Court is that – (i) though the notification dated 24.12.2007 specifies subjects within the field of Arts and Science, for Home Science, no subjects or specialisations were mentioned; (ii) the Karnataka Education Department Service (Department of Collegiate [2024] 2 S.C.R. 717 Smt. Vidya K. & Ors. v. State of Karnataka & Ors. Education) (Special Recruitment) Rules, 1993, require that the vacancy must be specified subject wise which was not done for Home Science; and (iii) if any student wants to take up specialised subjects in his masters’ degree, he is required to have studied that subject, and therefore providing the breakup of subjects within Home Science is necessary. 7. The appeals before us are by the appointed candidates, the State of Karnataka and the KPSC. We have heard all the counsels for the appellants and the respondents. 8. The issue as to whether the notification calling for applications for recruitment to the 18 posts of lecturers in the department of Home Science is illegal for not providing the subject wise specified categories, would depend upon the Rules governing the recruitment process, which are the Karnataka Education Department Service (Department of Collegiate Education) (Recruitment) Rules, 1964, and the Karnataka Education Department Service (Department of Collegiate Education) (Special Recruitment) Rules, 1993. Rules 3 and 4 of the 1993 Rules provide as follows: - “3. Qualification and Age - No person shall be eligible for recruitment under these rules unless he, has – (a) (i) Obtained a Master’s Degree in the relevant subject with at least 55 per cent marks or its equivalent grade; (ii) been, declared successful in the National Education Test”, provided further that candidates possessing Ph.D/M.