disposition in criminal cases? How to achieve equality and fairness in sentencing? These and many related questions are not even raised in India seriously with the result the system seems to be functioning as an end in itself. There has to be a radical change in the law and practice of sentencing if punishment should serve the cause of criminal justice. A set of sentencing guidelines may be statutorily evolved to make the system consistent and purposeful. Fixing mandatory minimum sentences may not be a worthwhile solution. More importantly, the policy should be to increase the choices in punishment and make the other functionaries of the system (like probation service and correctional administration) to have a voice in the sentencing process and administration. In short, sentences and sentencing require urgent attention of policy planners if criminal justice is to retain its credibility in the public mind. 5.5.3 A national policy on sentencing shall seek to address the following issues: (i) The need for criminal law to offer more alternatives in the matter of punishments instead of limiting the option merely to fines and imprisonment. (ii) In respect of the quantum of punishments, the need for constant review to ensure that it meets the ends of justice and disparity is reduced in similar situations. (iii) A policy to avoid short-term imprisonments and to prevent overcrowding of jails and other custodial institutions, to be rigorously pursued at all levels. (iv) The need for specific sentencing guidelines to be evolved in respect of each punishment. (v) Also the need for an institutional machinery involving correctional experts for fixing proper punishment.” (emphasis supplied) 720 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Precedents Dhananjoy Chatterjee v. State of W.B., (1994) 2 SCC 220 “14. In recent years, the rising crime rate — particularly violent crime against women has made the criminal sentencing by the courts a subject of concern. Today there are admitted disparities. Some criminals get very harsh sentences while many receive grossly different sentence for an essentially equivalent crime and a shockingly large number even go unpunished thereby encouraging the criminal and in the ultimate making justice suffer by weakening the system’s credibility. Of course, it is not possible to lay down any cut and dry formula relating to imposition of sentence but the object of sentencing should be to see that the crime does not go unpunished and the victim of crime as also the society has the satisfaction that justice has been done to it. In imposing sentences in the absence of specific legislation, Judges must consider variety of factors and after considering all those factors and taking an overall view of the situation, impose sentence which they consider to be an appropriate one. Aggravating factors cannot be ignored and similarly mitigating circumstances have also to be taken into consideration. 15. In our opinion, the measure of punishment in a given case must depend upon the atrocity of the crime; the conduct of the criminal and the defenceless and unprotected state of the victim.