No part of a statute and no word of a statute can be construed in isolation. Statutes have to be construed so that every word has a place and everything is in its place. … ” 14. Reiteration of the principles of interpretation of statutes and elucidation of the approach to be adopted, as suggested by the Hon’ble Judge, are so lucid that we feel hesitant to say anything more. However, while proceeding with the task entrusted to us, certainly these principles will have a strong bearing. Whether, WOrdS can be added tO Or deleted frOm a Statute? 15. Though Reg.10 of the 2018 Regulations expressly refers to “Assistant Professor” as one of the three posts to which the same would apply, the effect and import of the impugned of the Division Bench of the High Court is that henceforth, Reg.10 has to be read as if it does not apply to the post of Assistant Professor. The following decisions would throw light on whether the approach of the High Court was right or not. 1814 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 16. In Sri Jeyaram Educational Trust v. A.G. Syed Mohideen,20 this Court held: “11. It is now well settled that a provision of a statute should have to be read as it is, in a natural manner, plain and straight, without adding, substituting or omitting any words. While doing so, the words used in the provision should be assigned and ascribed their natural, ordinary or popular meaning. Only when such plain and straight reading, or ascribing the natural and normal meaning to the words on such reading, leads to ambiguity, vagueness, uncertainty, or absurdity which were not obviously intended by the legislature or the lawmaker, a court should open its interpretation toolkit containing the settled rules of construction and interpretation, to arrive at the true meaning of the provision. While using the tools of interpretation, the court should remember that it is not the author of the statute who is empowered to amend, substitute or delete, so as to change the structure and contents. A court as an interpreter cannot alter or amend the law. It can only interpret the provision, to make it meaningful and workable so as to achieve the legislative object, when there is vagueness, ambiguity or absurdity. The purpose of interpretation is not to make a provision what the Judge thinks it should be, but to make it what the legislature intended it to be.” (emphasis supplied) 17. This Court, in Union of India v. Deoki Nandan Aggarwal,21 had the occasion to lament by observing that: “14. We are at a loss to understand the reasoning of the learned Judges in reading down the provisions in paragraph 2 in force prior to November 1, 1986 as ‘more than five years’ and as ‘more than four years’ in the same paragraph for the period subsequent to November 1, 1986. It is not the duty of the court either to enlarge the scope of the legislation or the intention of the legislature when 20 (2010) 2 SCC 513 21 1992 Supp (1) SCC 323 [2024] 12 S.C.R.