909 Ajay Madhusudan Patel & Ors. v. Jyotrindra S. Patel & Ors. after signing the minutes, AMP took extreme U-turn just for SRG to become a laughing stock not only in front of all partners and HDFC Realty but also in front of TATAs. That’s enough for him. Please appreciate, though SRG is not a signatory to FAA, he is ready to honour what was agreed with him over phone call but on other side there is a person though has signed a document is now not ready to stick to it. Real mockery. I would suggest that seriously you should take this with Sanjaybhai & Shaju before approaching PI. My hands are tied on this since I have to safeguard interest of SRG….” (Emphasis supplied) • Vide email dated 11.05.2020 sent to the AMP Group on discussions pertaining to the Aurosagar Lease deed, Mr. Kalpesh Parmar indicated that Respondent No.9 is the only decision maker in Millenium and JRS is at best the facilitator if needed. The said excerpt from the contents of the email are reproduced hereinbelow: “…..The newly inserted points mentioned in the lease deed vide clause nos. 2.8, 2.9 (including 2.9.1 to 2.9.4), 2.10 and 2.11 cannot be considered as part of the draft of lease deed for following reasons:….. …4. While your newly inserted points suggest that they are having a futuristic impact so this can very well be taken up in due course with Millenium when Samarjitsinh is the only decision maker and JRS is at best the facilitator if needed…” (Emphasis supplied) 14. An Amendment to the FAA was executed between the AMP Group and JRS Group on 15.05.2020. The clauses relevant to the present dispute are reproduced hereinbelow: “5. Clause 2.1.5(a) stands deleted in its entirety and is substituted with the following: 910 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports On the Millenium Transfer Date, Aurosagar and Millenium shall simultaneously execute the following: (i) duly stamped amendment deed to the Aurosagar Lease Deed in the format set out in Annexure 1; (ii) duly stamped irrevocable special power of attorney in favour of Aurosagar in the format set out in Annexure 1A; and (iii) duly stamped deed of indemnity in the format set out in Annexure 1B. 6. Clause 2.1.6(b) stands deleted in its entirety and is substituted with the following: AMP Group shall complete due diligence of Deegee Software on or before June 30, 2020. In the event, there are any findings requiring indemnity by AMP Group from JRS Group and/or SRG the same will be mutually agreed between the parties in writing. xxx xxx xxx 12. Paragraph 27 in Schedule 4 stands deleted in its entirety and is substituted with the following: “Transaction Documents” means this Agreement, the Settlement Escrow Agreement and any and every document executed in connection with the transaction contemplated under or in connection with this Agreement.” (Emphasis supplied) 15. In continuation of the implementation of the FAA, the following communications were exchanged; • Emails dated 01.07.2020, 10.04.2021 and 15.04.2021 were exchanged between the AMP Group and Mr. Kalpesh Parmar pertaining to the due diligence of Deegee.