of Karnataka, (2009) 11 SCC 438 SUBMISSIONS OF THE RESPONDENTS 8. Repelling the contentions of the appellant, the learned Additional Solicitor General appearing for the respondents submitted that due procedure has been followed and ample opportunities were provided. The translated version of the grounds of detention along with the relevant documents were attempted to be served upon the detenue on the very next day after his detention in due compliance of Section 3 of the COFEPOSA Act. A panchnama was drawn in the presence of two independent witnesses to cover the incident of detenu’s refusal in accepting the ground of detention as per the extant principles of law. The panchnama bears the signature of the detenue with a 272 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports remark “I have refused to receive any document”, this sufficiently indicates that twin test enshrined in Article 22(5) of the Constitution of India was duly complied with. Even in the grounds of detention there are adequate averments clearly indicating detenue’s right to make representation to the named authorities. The contention raised is only an afterthought and therefore the present appeal deserves to be dismissed. 9. Despite refusal of the detenue on the first occasion in receiving the grounds of detention, a second attempt was made on 03.10.2023, and ultimately on 10.10.2023, the detenue received the ground of detention with all the relevant documents. These chronological events amply suggest the conduct of the detenue in evading to receive the grounds of detention. DISCUSSION 10. Article 22(5) of the Constitution of India can broadly be divided into two parts. Of these two parts there lies an underlying duty and obligation on the part of the authorities in not only serving the grounds of detention as soon as the case may be, after due service of the detention and communication of the grounds of detention along with the documents relied upon in the language which he understands, but also for the purpose of affording him the earliest opportunity of making a representation questioning the detention . 11. Therefore, the first part involves the bounden duty of the authorities in serving the grounds of detention containing such grounds which weighed in the mind of the detaining authority in passing the detention . In doing so, adequate care has to be taken in communicating the grounds of detention and serving the relevant documents in the language understandable to the detenue. The second part is with respect to his right of making the representation. For exercising such a right, a detenue has to necessarily have adequate knowledge of the very basis of detention . There is a subtle difference between the background facts leading to detention and the grounds of detention. While the background facts are not required in detail, the grounds of detention which determine the detention ought to be found in the grounds supplied to the detenue. In other words, the knowledge of the detenue is to the subjective satisfaction of a detaining authority discernible from the grounds supplied to him.