On the same lines, Instruction 5 of the Instructions appended to Form I in the 1970 Rules, titled ‘Confidential Report for Indian Police Service Officers’, stipulates that if the ‘Reviewing Authority’ finds that the ‘Reporting Authority’ made the report without due care and attention, he shall record a remark to that effect and the same shall be entered in his Confidential Roll. 482 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 15. Significantly, though a ‘Reporting Authority’, as defined, is required to be someone who supervises the performance of the officer reported upon and not necessarily his/her immediate superior, there was no change in the definition of ‘Reviewing Authority’. Be it noted that the 1970 Rules and the 2007 Rules both define ‘Reviewing Authority’ to mean the authority or authorities supervising the performance of the ‘Reporting Authority’, as may be specifically empowered in this behalf by the Government. It is in the backdrop of this definition of ‘Reviewing Authority’, that Rule 63(iii) of the Manual needs to be examined. Notably, a Deputy Commissioner, being the ‘Reporting Authority’ thereunder, would be altogether independent of the police department, being either an IAS Officer or a State Civil Service Officer. Needles to state, performance of a Deputy Commissioner would not be assessed by the Deputy Inspector General of Police, the designated ‘Reviewing Authority’ under Rule 63(iii), but by his/ her own superior in the Administrative Service. There is, thus, a clear departure from the 1970 Rules/2007 Rules. 16. The definition of ‘Reporting Authority’ in the 1970 Rules, post 1987, and in the 2007 Rules, did away with the mandate of having the ‘immediate superior’ of the officer reported upon undertaking that exercise but it still requires the ‘Reporting Authority’ to be someone who supervises the performance of the said officer. Ordinarily, such supervision would be by an officer from within the same department, who is higher in rank than the officer reported upon. The Government was, no doubt, given discretion to empower any of the authorities who supervise the performance of the officer reported upon to assume such role. This discretion, however, cannot be construed to mean that someone from outside the department can be given such power, in the light of the ‘Reviewing Authority’ being defined as someone who supervises the performance of such ‘Reporting Authority’. This clearly implies that both authorities must belong to the same service or department. In effect, Rule 63(iii) of the Manual does not fit in with the scheme obtaining under the 1970 Rules and the 2007 Rules. 17. The learned Attorney General would suggest that this definition be given a restricted meaning to the effect that the ‘Reviewing Authority’, i.e., the Deputy Inspector General of Police, would supervise the performance of the ‘Reporting Authority’, viz., the Deputy Commissioner, only to the extent of how he/she assessed the performance of the SP and no more. However, we are of [2024] 1 S.C.R. 483 The State of Assam and Others v. Binod Kumar and Others the opinion that such a construction does not flow from the plain language of the definition and would require something more to be read into it than was intended.