Adoption of these guidelines shall be binding pan India for all public and private organisations involved in research, development and handling of GE organisms (organism includes microorganisms, animals, plants, arthropods, aquatic animals etc.) and non-GE hazardous microorganisms (microorganism includes parasites, protozoa, algae, fungi, bacteria, virus, prions, etc.) and products produced through exploration of such organisms. Note: These guidelines do not overwrite any other existing regulations or guidelines, unless specified here.” (Emphasis supplied) [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1941 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. (b) These guidelines are divided into 4 chapters-Chapter 1: Regulations and Competent Authorities; Chapter 2: Principles and Components of Containment; Chapter 3: Operational Guides on Containment; Chapter 4: Containment Requirement for Import, Export and Exchange. Each of these issues covered in the Chapter is dealt with in considerable detail and I have perused the same however refrain from dealing with them in extenso. iv. Guidelines and SOPs for confined field trials of Regulated, GE plants 2008 - The scope of these guidelines is defined as under: “These guidelines are intended to provide guidance to applicants for the conduct of confined trials. They are not intended to explicitly define all the requirements for the conduct of a confined field trial, as further terms and conditions/requirements may be identified during the review process by the Regulatory Authorities. This document covers all GE/transgenic plants modified through recombinant DNA (rDNA) technology.” 32. It is in this background, having taken note of and considered the law, the relevant documents and all other essentialities, that the challenge raised by the Petitioners must be seen. 33. The conditional approval, leading to field trials for DMH-11 is in line with a developmental approach, of a scientific temper. The same has been supplemented with conditions imposed by the expert body, to facilitate mitigating measures qua the environment, which I have discussed above. 34. While examining the propriety of the conditional approval granted by the GEAC (to DMH-11) qua the precautionary principle, it becomes essential to look to the past s of this Court, in these petitions, in to understand the position taken, thus far, qua the activities of this body. (a) On 22.09.2006, the Court observed that on 01.05.2006, while issuing s in an Interlocutory Application, held that all trials will be conducted only with the approval of the GEAC. On this date, it was further observed that the Court was not inclined 1942 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports to direct the stoppage of field trials but, it did direct a pause on approvals, subject to having heard all sides. (b) On 13.10.2006, as an interim measure, the Court permitted the applicant to plant DMH-11 variety for experimental purpose in its field subject to all precautions. (c) On 15.12.2006, on being presented with some information which questioned the permission to plant the DMH-11 variety for testing, and a prayer regarding uprooting thereof, directions were issued to the GEAC to examine the impact of field tests being carried out, with reference to the experts referred to.