(3) The court must not direct the preparation of a report under subsection (1) on any aspects of the personal characteristics or personal history of an offender if a report covering those aspects is readily available to the court and there is no reason to believe that there has been any change of significance to the court since the report was prepared. (4) On directing the preparation of a report under subsection (1), the court may indicate to the probation officer the type of sentence or other mode of disposition that the court is considering, and may also give any other guidance to the probation officer that will assist the officer to prepare the report. (5) If a court has directed the preparation of a report under subsection (1), the probation officer charged with the preparation of the report may seek the further directions of the court on— (a) any particular item of information sought by the court; or (b) any alternative sentence or other mode of disposition that may be considered by the court if it appears that the sentence or other mode of disposition under consideration is inappropriate.” (emphasis supplied) [2024] 5 S.C.R. 705 Sunita Devi v. The State of Bihar & Anr. Section 31 of the Sentencing Act, 2002 “31 General requirement to give reasons (1) A court must give reasons in open court— (a) for the imposition of a sentence or for any other means of dealing with the offender; and (b) for the making of an under Part 2. (2) The reasons may be given under this section with whatever level of particularity is appropriate to the particular case. (3) Nothing in this section limits any other provision of this or any other enactment that requires a court to give reasons. (4) The fact that a court, in giving reasons in a particular case, does not mention a particular principle in section 8 or a particular factor in section 9 or a consideration under section 10 or section 11 is not in itself grounds for an appeal against a sentence imposed or an made in that case.” (emphais supplied) UNITED KINGDOM Coroners and Justice Act, 2009 (UK) PART 4 SENTENCING CHAPTER 1 Sentencing Council For England and Wales Section 118 of the Coroner and Justice Act, 2009 “118 Sentencing Council for England and Wales (1) There is to be a Sentencing Council for England and Wales. (2) Schedule 15 makes provision about the Council.” Schedule 15 The Sentencing Council for England and Wales Constitution of the Council 706 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Schedule 15, Para 1 of the Coroner and Justice Act, 2009 “1 The Council is to consist of— (a) 8 members appointed by the Lord Chief Justice with the agreement of the Lord Chancellor (“judicial members”); (b) 6 members appointed by the Lord Chancellor with the agreement of the Lord Chief Justice (“non-judicial members”).” Appointment of a person to chair the Council etc Schedule 15, Para 2 of the Coroner and Justice Act, 2009 “2 The Lord Chief Justice must, with the agreement of the Lord Chancellor, appoint— (a) a judicial member to chair the Council (“the chairing member”), and (b) another judicial member to chair the Council in the absence of the chairing member.” Appointment of judicial members Schedule 15, Para 3 of the Coroner and Justice Act, 2009 “3(1) A person is eligible for appointment as a judicial member if the person is— (a) a judge of the Court of Appeal, (b) a puisne judge of the High Court, (c) a Circuit judge, (d) a District Judge (Magistrates’ Courts), or (e) a lay justice.