923. 286 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports resources of the community” includes privately owned resources. There is no of this Court which has interpretated the phrase “material resources of the community”, in any other manner, or has held that private property is not a part of material resources of the community. Only doubts have been raised, and it is on these ‘doubts’ that this Nine Judge Bench has finally been constituted to give its verdict. There should be no confusion that the expression “material resources of the community” used in Article 39(b) includes privately owned resources. This has been the consistent view of this Court, as already referred above. It could not have been otherwise. To my mind a reference to material resources in Article 39 (b) without privately owned resources being a part of it, does not even make any sense. It is only when we include privately owned resources, as a part of the “material resources of the community” that the purpose of Articles 38 and 39 is fully realised. It is only then that the socialist and democratic principles incorporated in our Constitution get their true meaning. The aims and objects of our freedom fighters, their vision for a just and equitable society, the extensive debates in the Constituent Assembly, the provisions incorporated in Part IV, even other than Article 39 (b), all have to be taken into consideration and they leave us with no doubt that privately owned resources are a part of “material resources of the community”, as given in Article 39(b). Let us imagine the opposite. What if privately owned resources are not a part of “material resources of the community”? It would then mean that material resources will include only public resources. But public resources are in any case meant to serve the public. It is only when “private ownership” and “private property” are included in “material resources” that the provision acquires a meaning. We also have to read clauses (b) and (c) of Article 39 together, and in light of Article 38 of the Constitution of India, in to get a better perspective. Article 39(c) mandates that our economic system should not result in concentration of wealth and means of production (in a few hands). Material resources (both private and public) of the community must subserve the common good. The debates in the Constituent Assembly show that efforts made by some of the members to specify the scope of material resources were turned down for this reason. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 287 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. There is another aspect to the matter. In case private property or privately owned resources are not considered as a part of “material resources of the community”, and it would only include public resources and public property then the laws which are made for enforcement of these Directive Principles do not actually require the protection of Article 31-C. Protection of Article 31-C is only required when private property and privately owned resources are being acquired to subserve the common good and while doing so it is violating Article 14 and 19 of the Constitution of India.