52 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports c) Direct the respondent to pay the cost of this litigation, d) Grant such other relief or reliefs on this Hon’ble Court deem fit and proper in the circumstances of the case to meet the ends of justice.” What the respondent is seeking is in fact a setting aside of the dated 23.02.2015 passed in Criminal Miscellaneous No.6/2014 and return of the amount paid by him to the appellant herein in terms of the said by way of a restitution of the status quo ante. 17. Learned counsel for the appellant rightly contended that the said has in fact merged with the Appellate Court’s in the appeal filed by the respondent which was dismissed on the ground of delay and there being no further challenge to the said . In fact, the dated 23.02.2015 has attained finality. Therefore, there cannot be a setting aside of the dated 23.02.2015 for the period prior to such an application for revocation being made. Unless there is a change in the circumstance requiring alteration, modification or revocation of the earlier owing to a change occurring subsequent to the being passed, the application is not maintainable. Thus, the exercise of jurisdiction under sub-section (2) of Section 25 of the Act cannot be for setting aside of an earlier merely because the respondent seeks setting aside of that , particularly when the said has attained finality by its merger with an appellate as in the instant case unless a case for its revocation is made out. Secondly, the prayers sought for by the respondent herein are for refund of the entire amount of maintenance that was paid prior to the application under sub-section (2) of Section 25 of the Act being filed and the dated 23.02.2015 passed in Criminal Miscellaneous No.6/2014 being in fact revoked. The revocation of an , inter alia, under Section 12 of the Act sought by a party cannot relate to a period prior to such an being passed. We find that in the instant case the second prayer was not at all maintainable inasmuch as we have already observed that any alteration, modification or revocation of an passed under Section 12 of the Act owing to a change in circumstances could only be for a period ex post facto, i.e., post the period of an being made in a petition under Section 12 of the Act and not to a period prior thereto. Thus, such an application for alteration, modification or revocation filed under sub-section (2) of Section 25 of the Act cannot relate to any period prior to the being passed, inter alia, under Section 12 of the Act. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 53 S. Vijikumari v. Mowneshwarachari C 18. In the circumstances, we find that the prayers sought for by the respondent herein were not at all maintainable under sub-section (2) of Section 25 of the Act as they related to the period prior to 23.02.2015 when the original was passed. In fact, the prayers sought for by the respondent are totally contrary to the spirit of sub- section (2) of Section 25 of the Act.