99. In the same vein, the state may also provide for the mode by which educational institutions may be set up or established. For instance, it may require that a society registered under the Societies Registration Act or a public trust constituted in accordance with law is a pre- requisite to establishing a school.95 The state may also issue a certificate of recognition to the school (or other educational institution) meeting the relevant criteria. It may also require schools to register with the authorities.96 Certain steps as mandated by law may be a sine qua non for setting up educational institutions. 100. In the absence of these prerequisites (such as registration with the competent authorities), the educational institution will have no 95 See, for instance, Section 20A of the Andhra Pradesh Education Act 1982 read with Rule 14(4) of the Andhra Pradesh Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Rules 2010. Section 20A: “20-A. Prohibition of individual to establish institutions.—On and from the commencement of the Andhra Pradesh Education (Amendment) Act, 1987 no individual shall establish a private institution: Provided that this section shall not have any effect on any private institution established by an individual and recognized by the competent authority prior to such commencement].” Rule 14(4): “(4) The District Educational Officer, on being satisfied that the school fulfils the norms and standards prescribed under section 19 and section 25 of the Act, shall issue the recognition certificate in Form-2 as shown in the appendix. The certificate shall be for a period of three years and shall be issued within 30 days from the date of making application for recognition. The certificate of recognition shall be issued subject to following conditions: (a) The school is run by a society registered under the Societies Registration Act, 1860 (21 of 1860), or a public trust constituted under any law for the time being in force; …” 96 See, for instance, Section 30 of the Karnataka Education Act 1983: “30. Educational institutions to be registered.- (1) Save as otherwise provided in this Act, every local authority institution and every private educational institution established on or before the date of commencement of this Act or intended to be established thereafter, shall notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, be registered in accordance with this Act and the rules made thereunder. (2) No person or local authority shall establish or as the case may be, run or maintain an educational institution requiring registration under this section, unless such institution is so registered.” 1734 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports existence in the eyes of the law. It is only upon compliance with these requirements that the institution assumes the legal form mandated by the regulatory provisions of the law. 101. It is true that many persons or groups founded universities which awarded degrees which were not recognised by the imperial government. The existence of this option and the fact that others chose this path in colonial times cannot shape the contours of the right under Article 30 in independent India.