Further, the added respondent’s appeal challenging the was also decided vide the impugned common . b. The added respondent was also an applicant for the LPG distributorship as per the Advertisement, and that it would be 832 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports prejudicial for him if the impugned were set aside or modified. c. HPCL had, on an earlier occasion, rejected the added respondent’s candidature for LPG distributorship on grounds similar to the reasons for cancellation of the appellant’s distributorship and, therefore, was justified in taking a consistent and uniform stand. d. Extending any relief to the appellant, on facts and in the circumstances, could be inappropriate. Analysis 13. We have heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the impugned of the Division Bench, the of the Single Judge as well as the other materials on record. 14. The limited issues that we are tasked to decide in this appeal are: (i) Whether the land offered by the appellant for the showroom is covered by the extent of “Location” stipulated in the Advertisement and is compliant with the Unified Guidelines? (ii) Whether the Division Bench was justified in its interference with the under challenge before it? 15. A cursory look at the Advertisement informs us that it contemplated the location of the relevant distributorships in the manner such that the fifth column of Part 2 of the Advertisement indicated the ‘District’, the fourth column the ‘Block’, and the third column the “Location” with the words “particulars of the place wherever applicable” following it in brackets. Also, in Part 1 of the Advertisement, as noted above, there was an additional column for “Gram Panchayat”. This is conspicuously missing from Part 2. 16. Viewed thus, what we find is that HPCL intended to appoint an LPG distributor at a location named Haripal, situate within Haripal block in the district of Hooghly, reserved for SC, with ‘Rurban’ shown as the Type of Market/Distributorship. Much would, in our opinion, turn on ‘Rurban’ which was not noticed either by the Single Judge or the Division Bench, as the discussion follows. 17. In course of arguments, we heard Mr. Sinha submitting that there was an error in not mentioning the “Gram Panchayat” in the Advertisement [2024] 3 S.C.R. 833 Tapas Kumar Das v. Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited & Ors. for the subject location. In other words, there was a mistake in the Advertisement insofar as Sl. No.624 is concerned. However, a course correction measure was sought to be adopted in the written notes of arguments filed on behalf of HPCL which, as would unfold hereafter, does more harm than good to its cause. It is stated in the written notes that “from Sl. No.608 onwards, all of the locations advertised … were either urban or semi-urban with regard to the nature of the market/LPG distributorship; hence, the relevant Gram Panchayat was not mentioned in the said Advertisement”. It is also stated therein that in terms of the Advertisement, the appellant “ought to have offered land located within (sic) in village/mouza location – Haripal (column 3), which is the advertised location” (bold in original).