Subsequently, contempt petitions were instituted before this Court for non-compliance with the Court’s decision in P Ramakrishnan Raju (supra). This Court directed all states to file affidavits detailing the steps taken to comply with the directions. By an dated 27 October 2015, reported as Justice V.S. Dave, President, the Association of Retired Judges of Supreme Court and High Courts vs. Kusumjit Sidhu and Others6, this Court closed the contempt proceedings against the State of Uttar Pradesh, noting that it had already framed a scheme in accordance with the Court’s directions. The Court further held that a slight variation from the yardstick in the Andhra Pradesh scheme is permissible keeping in mind the local conditions and directed that states that are paying less than the yardstick, shall consider upward revision at the ‘appropriate stage and time’. The court held: “State of Meghalaya, Manipur, Maharashtra, Goa, Mizoram, Punjab, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Sikkim, Arunachal Pradesh, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Tripura, Government of NCT of Delhi, Haryana, Uttarakhand, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, Kerala, Gujarat and Assam The counter-affidavits/responses filed on behalf of each of the aforesaid States indicate that a scheme has been framed in accordance with the directions of the Court. 6 Contempt Petition (Civil) Nos. 425-426 of 2015. [2024] 1 S.C.R. 219 THE STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. v. ASSOCIATION OF RETIRED SUPREME COURT AND HIGH COURT JUDGES AT ALLAHABAD & ORS While some of the States are paying more than what the State of Andhra Pradesh (Adopted as the yardstick by the Court) is paying by way of post-retirement allowances some others are affording lesser amount(s). A little variation from the yardstick can be understood in terms of the flexibility contemplated in paragraphs 33 and 34 of the which enable the States to frame their respective schemes keeping in mind the local conditions. As all the aforesaid States have framed their schemes, we direct that the contempt proceedings insofar as these states are concerned are closed. We also direct that such of the states where the allowances paid are lesser than the State of Andhra Pradesh, shall consider the necessity of an upward revision of such allowances at the appropriate stage and time.” (emphasis supplied) 8. The Government of Uttar Pradesh issued a Government dated 3 July 2018 and revised the post-retiral benefits for former judges of the High Court. The domestic help allowance payable to retired Chief Justices and Judges of the High Court was increased to Rs. 20,000/- (per month) for former Chief Justices and Rs.15,000/- (per month) for former judges. Under this revised scheme, after the death of a former Chief Justice or judge, the surviving spouse would be entitled to receive Rs. 10,000/- and Rs 7,500/- per month, respectively for life. In 2022, the Government of Andhra Pradesh increased the allowance to Rs. 50,000 for former Chief Justices and Rs. 45,000 for former judges of the High Court. The first respondent preferred an application to amend the prayers in the writ petition and sought parity with the new scheme framed by the Andhra Pradesh government.