The grievance of the appellant therein was that it was not necessary to complete 35 years for being appointed to the post of District and Sessions Judge (Entry Level) in the AP State Judicial Service. In this context, the Court analysed the recommendations of the Shetty Commission as under: “14. The said concept, with regard to the minimum age, has been brought in only from the report of the Commission. For the reasons recorded in the report of the Commission, the Commission was of the view that the post of a District and Sessions Judge, being an important post, which not only requires integrity and intelligence but also requires maturity, the Commission was of the view that a person not having completed 35 years of age should not be appointed to the said post. It is pertinent to note that this was merely a recommendation or suggestion made by the Commission. The recommendation or suggestion, if not supported by the Rules, cannot be implemented. In the instant case, the Rules are silent with regard to the minimum age. It only speaks about the maximum age. In the circumstances, one cannot read provisions incorporated in the report of the Commission into the Rules. The Rules are statutory and framed under the provisions of Article 309 of the Constitution of India. In our opinion, if the recommendations made by the Commission and the statutory rules are at variance, the provisions incorporated in the recruitment rules have to be followed. It is pertinent to note that when 16 [2013] 12 SCR 985 : (2014) 2 SCC 158 [2024] 6 S.C.R. 563 Abhimeet Sinha & Ors. v. High Court of Judicature at Patna & Ors. such a question had been raised before this Court, in Syed T.A. Naqshbandi case [Syed T.A. Naqshbandi v. State of J&K, (2003) 9 SCC 592 : 2003 SCC (L&S) 1151] , this Court had also observed that till relevant recruitment rules are suitably amended so as to incorporate the recommendations made by the Commission, provisions of the statutory rules must be followed. 17. In our opinion, the High Court was in error while giving undue weightage to the recommendations made by the Shetty Commission, especially when the Rules do not provide for any minimum age for the appointment to the post in question. Moreover, even Article 233 of the Constitution of India is also silent about the minimum age for being appointed as a District Judge.” 39. With the above pronouncements on the inter-play between the Shetty Commission recommendations and the prevalent Rules, the following logical deduction can be laid down: - (i) In case of inconsistency between the recommendations and the Rules, primacy should be given to the existing statutory Rules. (ii) In the absence of existing Rules, the High Court should follow the directions of this Court. 40. For the sake of completeness, we may however clarify that even though the statutory Rules can be supplemented to fill in gaps17, the High Court cannot act contrary to the Rules18.