If this conclusion were correct, then obviously the present suits seeking permanent injunction restraining the Government of India from issuing a proclamation under Article 356 clause (1) could not lie and equally no interim injunction could be granted by this Court, but the learned Additional Solicitor General, with his usual candour and fairness, conceded that he was not in a position to support this view. This view seems to be erroneous and for two very good reasons. In the first place, it overlooks the fact that whereas sub-section (2) of Section 204 of the Government of India Act, 1935 provided that the Federal Court, in exercise of its original jurisdiction, shall not pronounce any , other than a declaratory , no such provision limiting the power of the Supreme Court in regard to the relief to be granted is to be found in Article 131. The power of the Supreme Court to grant relief in a suit under Article 131 is not restricted only to “declaratory ”. Secondly, as pointed out by Mr Seervai in his book at p. 1385, “when a court is given exclusive jurisdiction in respect of a dispute between the parties, it is reasonable to hold that the Court has power to resolve the whole dispute”, unless its power is limited by express words or by necessary implication. There is no such limitation in Article 131 and hence it is not correct to say that the Supreme Court can only give a declaratory in a suit under Article 131. The Supreme Court would have power to give whatever reliefs are necessary for enforcement of the legal right claimed in the suit if such legal right is established.” [emphasis supplied] [2024] 7 S.C.R. 705 The State of West Bengal v. Union of India 40. It could thus be seen that His Lordship approved the ratio in State of Bihar v. Union of India and Another (supra) to the effect that the suit under Article 131 of the Constitution does not contemplate any private party being arrayed as a disputant on one side or the other. It held that the parties to the dispute must fall within one or the other category specified in clauses (a), (b) and (c) of Article 131 of the Constitution. 41. His Lordship disapproved the observations made in the case of State of Bihar v. Union of India and Another (supra) to the effect that “this much is certain that the legal right which is the subject of dispute must arise in the context of the Constitution and the federalism it sets up”. His Lordship held that the suggestion that the legal right must be one which arises under the Constitution, goes much further than what the language of Article 131 of the Constitution warrants. 42. Justice Chandrachud further pointed out that, under the Government of India Act, 1935, Section 204 provided that the dispute must inter alia concern the interpretation of the Government of India Act, 1935 or of an in Council made thereunder or the extent of the legislative or executive authority vested in the Federation by virtue of the Instrument of Accession of that State.