The concept of possessory owner as obtaining under section 2(19)3 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1939 is no longer available under the M.V. Act, 1988 since the definition of owner has undergone a sea change. (vi) The of this Court in “Rajasthan State Road Transport Corporation vs. Kailash Nath Kothari & Ors.” 4 was based on the definition of owner as obtaining under the old Act hence it would not be of any help to decide ownership of a vehicle under the new M.V. Act, 1988. (vii) Once it is established that appellant is neither owner nor driver of the vehicle, it cannot be made liable for the compensation. Submissions on behalf of M/s Hindustan Motors (R-6) 11. Per contra, learned counsel for M/s Hindustan Motors submitted: (i) M/s. Hindustan Motors had sold the vehicle to the appellant vide challan cum invoice No. 20302564 for an amount of Rs. 7,73,475/. Pursuant thereto, the car bearing temporary registration No. CG04RPRTC-0478 was delivered to the appellant on principal-to-principal basis. As the sale stood complete in all respects, the appellant was owner of the vehicle on the date of accident. (To buttress the above submission, reliance was placed on a decision of this Court in “M/s. Tata Motors Limited vs. Antonio Paulo Vaz and Anr.” 5) (ii) Assuming that the deceased as well the driver was an employee of M/s Hindustan Motors, once the vehicle was sold and delivered to the dealer, the driver and the dealer alone would be liable for compensation. More so, because clause 3(b) of the Dealership Agreement absolved M/s Hindustan Motors of its liability by providing as follows: 3 “owner” means, where the person, in possession of a motor vehicle is a minor, the guardian of such minor, and in relation to a motor vehicle which is the subject of a hire purchase agreement, the person in possession of the vehicle under that agreement. 4 [1997] Suppl. 3 SCR 724 : (1997) 7 SCC 481 5 [2021] 1 SCR 625 : (2021) 18 SCC 545 [2024] 9 S.C.R. 23 Vaibhav Jain v. Hindustan Motors Pvt. Ltd. “3(b) After the motor vehicles are dispatched /delivered the Company’s liability in respect of any defect in the motor vehicle will be limited to the Company’s obligations under the warranty clause and the Company will have no other liability and all liability other than the one under warranty as aforesaid shall be to the account of the Dealer.” (Emphasis supplied) (iii) The dealer being the possessory owner was rightly held liable in the light of the decision of this Court in Rajasthan State Road Transport Corporation (supra). (iv) Even if M/s. Hindustan Motors did not file an appeal against the impugned award, this Court can absolve M/s. Hindustan Motors of its liability by modifying the award in exercise of its power under 41 Rule 33 of the Civil Procedure Code, 1908 (for short CPC) as expounded by this Court in “Bihar Supply Syndicate vs. Asiatic Navigation & Ors.”6 and “Sri Chandre Prabhuji Jain Temple & Ors.