176 21. Power to issue, to include power to add to, amend, vary or rescind notifications s, rules, or bye-laws- Where, by any [Central Act] or Regulations a power to issue notifications, s, rules, or bye-laws is conferred, then that power includes a power, exercisable in the like manner and subject to the like sanction and conditions (if any), to add to, amend, vary or rescind any notifications, s, rules, or bye-laws so issued. 177 “Vary” - to make changes to something to make it slightly different. Oxford Learner’s Dictionary, <https://www.oxfordlearnersdictionaries.com/definition/american_english/vary>; “vary” Merriam-Webster Dictionary <https://www.merriam-webster.com/thesaurus/vary#thesaurus-entry-1-2> [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1403 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. 122. The power of Parliament to vary the list includes not merely the power to exclude or include “any caste, race or tribe” but also the power to exclude or include “parts of or groups within any caste, race or tribe”. In Milind (supra), the issue before this Court was whether an entry titled ‘Halba/Halbi’ in the Scheduled Tribe relating to the State of Maharashtra could be read to include the ‘Halba-Koshti’ tribe. This Court held that the Presidential list is to be read as it is and no evidence could be allowed to establish that an entry in the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe list included a particular group that was not included specifically in the List. The Court held that any other interpretation would infringe upon the power accorded solely to Parliament by Article 341(2). Justice Shivraj V Patil, writing for the Bench, held that unless a tribe is specified expressly in the List under Article 342, which is pari materia to Article 341, no inquiry could be held or evidence led to establish that such tribe, or any part thereof, is included within the meaning of an entry included in the Presidential .178 This Court underscored that the power of the States is limited to making recommendations at the initial stage of consultation, prior to the notification of the Presidential List under Article 341(1). This Court observed that the Constitution vests the power to make any further changes to the List in Parliament to prevent alterations to the List due to political pressure. 179 123. The prohibition under Article 341(2) entails that once a particular caste, race, tribe or a part or group of it is specified in the Presidential List under Article 341(1), the list shall be read as it is with no additions or deletions. The benefit of the special provisions shall not be given to any caste or sub-caste not included in the List with respect to that State. Article 341(2) uses the words “include in” or “exclude from” and “shall not be varied”. These terms contained in the provision are unambiguous. An inclusion would occur if the State were to enact a law that extends the benefits meant for Scheduled Castes in that State to a community that is not enumerated as a Scheduled Caste for that State. The only mechanism open to the State, in case it regards a community fit for inclusion in the List notified for that State, is to make a proposal to that effect to the central authorities.