(5) The development plan shall come into operation from the date of publication thereof in the Official Gazette and as from such date shall be binding on all Development Authorities constituted under this Act and all local authorities functioning within the planning area. (6) After the coming into operation of the development plan, the interim development plan shall stand modified or altered to the extent the proposals in the development plan are at variance with the interim development plan.” 40. It can thus be seen that the development plan is required to consist of various factors. Clause (b) of Section 18 of the TCP Act provides that it shall allocate broadly areas or sector of land for various purposes including residential, industrial, commercial or agricultural. It shall also provide for open spaces, parks and gardens, green belts, zoological gardens and play-grounds. It is also required to make proposals for general landscaping and preservation of natural areas. It is required to project the requirement of the planning area of such amenities and utilities as water, drainage, electricity and suggest their fulfilment. It is also required to propose broad-based regulations for sectoral development, by way of guide-lines, within each sector of the location, height, size of buildings and structures, open spaces, court-yards and the use to which such buildings and structures and land may be put including regulations for façade control and sloping roof conforming to the hill architecture and environs. 41. It can thus be seen that a special emphasis is placed on regulations for façade control and sloping roof conforming to the hill architecture and environs. Clause (j) of Section 18 of the TCP Act, also specifically provides to indicate measures for flood control, protection against land slide, prevention of air and water pollution, disposal of garbage and general environmental control. 1000 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 42. Under Section 19(1) of the TCP Act, the Director is required to publish the draft development plan prepared under Section 18 in such manner as may be prescribed together with a notice of the preparation of the draft development plan and the place or places where the copies may be inspected. It provides for inviting objections and suggestions, in writing, from any person with respect thereto, within thirty days from the date of publication of such notice. The notice to be issued under Section 19 requires that it should specify the existing land use maps, a narrative report supported by maps and charts, explaining the provisions of the draft development plan, the phasing of implementation of the draft development plan as suggested by the Director, the provisions for enforcing the draft development plan and stating the manner in which permission to development may be obtained and the approximate estimate of the cost of land acquisition for public purposes and the cost of works involved in the implementation of the plan. 43. Under sub-section (2) of Section 19 of the TCP Act, the Director is required to consider all the objections and suggestions as may be received within the period specified in the notice under sub-section (1) thereof, not later than ninety days after the date of expiry of the notice period.