If in cases where a legislature has repealed text and inserted other text, there is clear evidence that the legislature would have repealed the text in question independent of its decision to give effect to new or alternate language, then a court can continue to give effect to the repeal despite invalidating the new text. This is because, in such cases, the legislative intent is not composite or indivisible, and it is evident that the legislature contemplated that the original text would be repealed independent of whether the new text was given effect or not. However, absent such clear legislative intent, where a legislature substitutes a text by amendment and the amendment is invalidated, it is presumed that the unamended text stands revived. 67. This analysis of whether legislative intent is composite or not is relevant to the case of substitutions. However, there is another reason why the argument of the appellants that repealed text can [2024] 11 S.C.R. 91 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. never be enforced after a court invalidates an amendment may be flawed, and that is the case of a repeal simpliciter. Let us imagine a situation where Parliament were to by constitutional amendment, repeal protections concerning tenure or salary granted to constitutional functionaries such as Judges or Election Commissioners. This would be a case of an amendment that only repealed constitutional text. Such an amendment would likely violate the basic structure of the Constitution. If this Court were to invalidate such an amendment, could it be contended that the protections do not revive? The only logical relief in such a case is the revival of those protections. These protections would be enforceable despite the fact that they have been omitted from the statute book or constitutional text by the legislature. This would not be a case of the court re-writing the law but merely nullifying the effect of the repeal. Thus, it cannot be said that a court cannot nullify the effect of a repeal. The case of substitutions is admittedly more complicated, as the Court must investigate whether the legislative intent to repeal and enact is composite and indivisible. However, once it is demonstrated that the legislature would not have repealed without simultaneously enacting, there can be no doubt that a court can reverse both the effects of the enactment and the repeal. 68. Finally, in addition to looking at the totality of the legislative circumstances, the court must also examine the consequence of the original text reviving or not reviving vis-à-vis the principles espoused in the judgement. Ordinarily, where an unconstitutional provision is struck down, it is presumed that the original text is constitutional and thus there are no adverse consequences flowing from its reviving. However, there may exist cases where the underlying or original rule itself is unconstitutional or that to revive the situation that existed prior to the amendment would either severely undermine the legal principles set out in the judgement invalidating the amendment or result in some other adverse consequences.