Special fund allocation is desirable for the purpose of creating public awareness. 1914 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 28.10. I am not inclined to accept the objections raised by the Petitioners, for consideration of the report of Dr. Paroda. Given that the substance in issue is scientific in nature, the minority report cannot be ignored entirely. After perusing both the reports, while there are certain differences, one also finds substantial similarities. They may be noted: TEC Dr. Paroda (5 Members) The overall process of risk For environmental risk assessment should follow assessment there is an the flowchart for the Risk urgent need for developing Assessment process in the comprehensive guidelines Guidance on Risk assessment in consultation with all of Living Modified Organisms stakeholders and general public. of the Cartagena Protocol on There should be establishment Biosafety. of risk assessment unit which should be permanently staffed by a multi-disciplinary team. It is generally not possible Proper evaluation of GE plants to replicate the conditions is not scientifically tenable in for testing under different contained greenhouses as agro-ecological regions and natural, varying conditions conditions in the greenhouse. representing different agro- ecological regions and growing seasons cannot be feasibly replicated. Specific sites for conducting No trials should be allowed in field trials need to be non-notified fields, leased or designated, certified and otherwise. A system should sufficient mechanism put be evolved for notification of in place for monitoring the confined field trial sites which trials and ensuring restricted should include both public access, disposal of material, and private sector institutions associated testing and other subject to certain conditions. facilities. These sites should be used only for field trials of GM crops. Trials should not be conducted on leased land. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1915 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. A requisite understanding There is a need to strengthen of the process of Risk the public sector laboratories assessment be developed through funding in to have through consultation, required infrastructure and collaboration and capacity human resource development. building as the regulatory There should be a major system has gaps and require human resource development rethinking, investment and initiative for training in national relearning. and international institutions. Government may establish inter-ministerial coordination and monitoring mechanism to create/strengthen public research institutions for regulatory process. 28.11. With respect to the objections raised by the Union of India, to the TEC report, that the TEC went beyond its scope, a perusal of the recommendations made, juxtaposed with the Tor, one finds that the latter are largely within the scope of the question that had been put to them. The TEC has confined itself only to issues relevant to answering Tors. 28.12. As discussed earlier, in Kantha Vibhag (supra), this Court observed that: “15. It is first important to differentiate expert committees which are set by the courts/tribunals from those set up by the Government in exercise of executive powers or under a particular statute. The latter are set up due to their technical expertise in a given area, and their reports are, subject to judicially observed restraints, open to judicial review before courts when decisions are taken solely based upon them.