Clause 8.7 dealing with Partial Validity empowers the severance of invalid or unenforceable provisions of the FAA. D. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT (SRG GROUP) 40. Mr. Huzefa Ahmadi, the learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the Respondent SRG Group submitted that the present petition [2024] 9 S.C.R. 921 Ajay Madhusudan Patel & Ors. v. Jyotrindra S. Patel & Ors. is merely a device to embroil strangers into an agreement entered into between two groups of the same family since the SRG Group is admittedly neither a party nor signatory or confirming party to the FAA or the alleged arbitration agreement contained therein. The AMP and JRS Groups who are signatories thereto are ad idem about the terms of the FAA, including their mutual intention to refer the disputes arising from it to arbitration. Had the SRG Group been involved in the negotiations leading to the signing of the FAA, or participated therein, or expressed its inclination to be bound by the arbitration agreement, the same would have been recorded in the FAA. 41. The counsel submitted that the fact that the FAA had always been intended to operate inter se the AMP and JRS Groups is borne from a bare perusal of the clauses of the FAA itself which only confers rights or fastens obligations upon the said Groups. • Recital F specifically records that the AMP and JRS Groups “after mutual discussions and negotiations have agreed to settle all disputes/issues that have arisen amongst the parties over last several years …. on the terms and conditions as mutually agreed to”. • Clauses 2.1.4 and 2.1.6 read with Schedules 7 and 8 which relate to the exit of AMP Group from Millenium and the exit of JRS and SRG Groups from Deegee contain a mere reference to the SRG Group wherein the foremost words used read as “In connection with the … Exit, the Parties agree…” – thereby placing the obligation to exit and/or ensure such exit solely upon the AMP or JRS Groups, as the case may be. None of these clauses indicate either the consent or agreement of the SRG Group in this regard. • Further, in Clause 2.1.7, the FAA places an obligation to unconditionally withdraw all litigations solely on the AMP and JRS Groups. 42. The counsel submitted that the arbitration clause contained in the FAA by itself makes a reference only to the parties to the FAA inasmuch as it sets out the negotiation or dispute resolution mechanism or appointment procedure to be followed by the parties alone, and importantly, the factum that the AMP and JRS Groups shall continue to perform their respective obligations under the FAA, subject to the 922 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports termination of the FAA. At no point does the arbitration agreement make any reference to the SRG Group nor does it fasten any obligations to be performed by it. 43. It was further submitted that there is no defined legal relationship between the SRG Group and the petitioners to justify the application of Section 7(1) of the Act, 1996.