16. We are of the view that the statement in Ex. B-6 is a clear admission of Muthusamy Gounder as to how he treated Appellant No. 1, Respondent No. 1 and Respondent No. 3 as his sons. Respondent No. 3 is claiming through Muthusamy Gounder, the common predecessor in interest; therefore, the admission is binding on Respondent No. 3 as well. Hence, by treating Appellant Nos. 1 and 3 and Respondent Nos. 1 and 3 as successors in the interest of Muthusamy Gounder, the shares are worked out. Once the status of the parties, other than Respondent No. 3, is established as the extended family of the propositus, irrespective of whether the marriages of Appellant No. 2 and Respondent No. 2 with Muthusamy Gounder are void or voidable, denying the children of Muthusamy Gounder a share in the property of notional partitioned in favour of Muthusamy Gounder, is unsustainable in law and fact. Appellant No. 3 claims to be the daughter of Muthusamy Gounder, and the law, as applicable to the separate share of Muthusamy Gounder, grants an equal share to the daughter along with the sons of Muthusamy Gounder. 17. The above discussion takes us to point out a common infirmity in the examination of issues by the Trial and the Appellate Courts. The suit is one for partition, and the shares are dependent upon the [2024] 1 S.C.R. 425 Raja Gounder and Others v. M. Sengodan and Others nature of status and the time at which the partition is decreed. It is axiomatic that the shares fluctuate not only with the happening of events in the family but also with the circumstances established by the parties to the lis. In the present case, the claim as a coparcenary is unacceptable for want of evidence on the factum of the marriage of Muthusamy Gounder with Appellant No. 2 and Respondent No. 2; the courts below ought to have considered the relief from admitted circumstances on record. Hence, the argument of Respondent No. 3 that the status of Appellant Nos. 1 and 3; and Respondent No. 1 as the children of Muthusamy Gounder is without evidence is untenable and rejected accordingly. At this stage, it is apposite to refer to the conclusions laid down in Revanasiddappa (supra):- “81. We now formulate our conclusions in the following terms: 81.1. In terms of sub-section (1) of Section 16, a child of a marriage which is null and void under Section 11 is statutorily conferred with legitimacy irrespective of whether: (i) such a child is born before or after the commencement of the amending Act, 1976; (ii) a decree of nullity is granted in respect of that marriage under the Act and the marriage is held to be void otherwise than on a petition under the enactment; 81.2. In terms of sub-section (2) of Section 16 where a voidable marriage has been annulled by a decree of nullity under Section 12, a child “begotten or conceived” before the decree has been made, is deemed to be their legitimate child notwithstanding the decree, if the child would have been legitimate to the parties to the marriage if a decree of dissolution had been passed instead of a decree of nullity; 81.3.