23. Section 118 of the Act of 1976 empowers the State Government to make rules consistent with the provisions of that statute to carry out the purposes thereof. In exercise of such power, the Gujarat Town Planning and Urban Development Rules, 1979, were framed. Rule 16 thereof prescribes the procedure to be followed for publication of the declaration under Section 41 of the Act of 1976. Rule 17 states that, for the purpose of making the draft scheme under Section 42 of the Act of 1976, the appropriate authority shall call a meeting or meetings of the owners of the lands included in the Town Planning Scheme, by a public notice as well as by individual notice to every owner whose address is known to the appropriate authority, and explain in such meeting the tentative proposals of the draft scheme for eliciting public opinion and suggestions on the said proposals. Thereafter, the appropriate authority is empowered to take into consideration all such suggestions and objections raised on the proposals for making the 612 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports draft scheme under Section 42. Rule 26 details the procedure to be followed by the Town Planning Officer under Sections 51 and 52(1) of the Act of 1976. Rule 26(1) requires the Town Planning Officer to give notice in Form H of the date on which he would commence his duties for preparing the preliminary scheme and final scheme and he shall also state the time within which the owner of any property or right which is injuriously affected by the making of the scheme, who would be entitled under Section 82, to make a claim for compensation before him. Under Rule 26(4), the Town Planning Officer is required to give every person, interested in any land affected by a scheme, sufficient opportunity of stating their views and not give a decision till he has duly considered their representations, if any. Rule 37 states that a claim under Section 82 shall be made within three months from the date fixed in the notice given under Rule 26(1). 24. Now, a quick recce of precedential thought on the Act of 1976 and the like. In State of Gujarat vs. Shantilal Mangaldas and others1, a Constitution Bench had occasion to consider the provisions of the Bombay Town Planning Act, 1955. The provisions of that enactment were earlier applicable in the State of Gujarat and are in pari materia with those of the Act of 1976. Section 53 of the Bombay Town Planning Act, 1955, provided that all lands required by the local authority shall, on the day on which the final scheme comes into force, vest absolutely in the local authority free from all encumbrances, unless it is otherwise determined in such scheme, and that all rights in the original plots which have been reconstituted shall determine and the reconstituted plots shall become subject to the rights settled by the Town Planning Officer. In effect, this provision is identical to Section 67 of the Act of 1976.