Lord Wilberforce commented by stating that “no ordinary man, literate or semi-literate, would think that a horse, a swimming pool, moveable partitions, or even a dry dock was plant”. (6) For the hotel building and hospital in the case of Carr v. Sayer [65 TC 15 : 1992 CLY 2470 : 1992 STC 396 (Ch D)] it has been observed that a hotel building remains a building even when constructed to a luxury specification and similarly a hospital building for infectious diseases which might require a special layout and other features also remains a premises and is not a plant. It is to be added that all these decisions are based upon the interpretation of the phrase “machinery or 844 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports plant” under Section 41 of the Finance Act, 1971 which was applicable and there appears no such distinction for grant of allowance on different heads as provided under Section 32 of the Income Tax Act. (7) To differentiate a building for grant of additional depreciation by holding it to be a “plant” in one case where the building is specially designed and constructed with some special features to attract the customers and a building not so constructed but used for the same purpose, namely, as a hotel or theatre would be unreasonable.” 50. Another decision on the point is in the case of Victory Aqua Farm Ltd.,21 wherein the issue before this Court was whether a natural pond used by the assessee, which was specially designed for rearing prawns, could be a plant within the meaning of Section 32 of the Income Tax Act, 1961. This Court heavily relied upon the decision of a three-judge Bench of this Court in the case of Karnataka Power Corporation.20 In this case, the question was whether a power- generating station building is a plant. In the decision rendered by a Bench of three Hon’ble Judges, it was held that the decision in the case of Anand Theatres19 cannot be read broadly. In paragraphs 5 to 8 of the decision, it was held thus: “5. It was the case of the assessee that it was entitled to investment allowance as applicable to a plant in respect of its power-generating station building. In a note filed before the Commissioner (Appeals) it stated that it had included for the purpose the value of its potential transformer foundation, cable duct system, outdoor yard structures and tail race channel. It explained that the process of generation started from letting in water from the reservoir into the penstocks and ducts which were the water conductor system into the turbines. Once electricity had been produced by generation, it had to be conducted, as it was not possible to store the same, and the process of generation continued until the electricity was led to the transmission towers. The water that was used for rotation of the turbines had to be removed and this was done through the tail race channel. For stepping up the electricity, transformers were used in the outdoor yard.