76 In Gujarat Mazdoor Sabha and Another v. Siate of Gujarat, (2020) 10 SCC 459, the Court added fifth prong to proportionality test. It stipulated that the state should provide sufficient safeguards against the abuse of such restriction. This was relied upon in Ramesh Chandra Sharma and Others v. State of U.P. and Others, 2023 SCC OnLine SC 162. 77 [2018 8SC]R 1 : (2019) 1 SCC 1. 78 See David Bilchitz, “Necessity and Proportionality: Towards a Balance Approach?“, (Hart Publishing, Oxford and Portland, Oregon 2016). Also see Aparna Chandra, “Proportionality: A Bridge to Nowhere?”, (Oxford Human Rights Journal 2020). 584 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports following inquiry. First, a range of possible alternatives to the measure employed by the Government must be identified. Secondly, the effectiveness of these measures must be determined individually; the test here is not whether each respective measure realises the governmental objective to the same extent, but rather whether it realises it in a “real and substantial manner”. Thirdly, the impact of the respective measures on the right at stake must be determined. Finally, an overall must be made as to whether in light of the findings of the previous steps, there exists an alternative which is preferable; and this will go beyond the strict means-ends assessment favoured by Grimm and the German version of the proportionality test; it will also require a form of balancing to be carried out at the necessity stage. 156. Insofar as second problem in German test is concerned, it can be taken care of by avoiding “ad hoc balancing” and instead proceeding on some “bright-line rules” i.e. by doing the act of balancing on the basis of some established rule or by creating a sound rule... XX XX XX 158. ... This Court, in its earlier s, applied German approach while applying proportionality test to the case at hand. We would like to proceed on that very basis which, however, is tempered with more nuanced approach as suggested by Bilchitz. This, in fact, is the amalgam of German and Canadian approach. We feel that the stages, as mentioned in Modern Dental College & Research Centre and recapitulated above, would be the safe method in undertaking this exercise, with focus on the parameters as suggested by Bilchitz, as this projects an ideal approach that need to be adopted.” 27. The said test was also referred to in Anuradha Bhasin v. Union of India and Others,” with the observation that the principle of proportionality is inherently embedded in the Constitution under 79 [2012 SC0R ]81 2 : (2020) 3 SCC 637. [2024] 2 S.C.R. 585 Association for Democratic Reforms & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. the doctrine of reasonable restriction. This means that limitations imposed on a right should not be arbitrary or of excessive nature beyond what is required in the interest of public. This thereupon references works of scholars/jurists who have argued that if the necessity prong of the proportionality test is applied strictly, legislations and policies, no matter how well intended, would fail the proportionality test even if any other slightly less drastic measure exists.8° Thereupon, the Court accepted the suggestion in favour of a moderate interpretation of the necessity test.