The conditions under which the Rules are applicable have been stated in sub-paragraph (4) of Rule 2 of the said Rules. 2060 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 25.1 Rule 3 defines, inter alia, the expressions, “biotechnology”, “gene technology” and “genetic engineering”, which read as under: “3. Definitions:- In these rules unless the context requires. (i) “Biotechnology” means the application of scientific and engineering principles to the processing of materials by biological agents to produce goods and services; (ii) x x x (iii) “Gene Technology” means the application of the gene technique called genetic engineering, include self cloning and deletion as well as cell hybridisation; (iv) “Genetic engineering” means the technique by which heritable material, which does not usually occur or will not occur naturally in the organism or cell concerned, generated outside the organism or the cell is inserted into the said cell or organism. It shall also mean the formation of new combinations of genetic material by incorporation of a cell into a host cell, where they occur naturally (self cloning) as well as modification of an organism or in a cell by deletion and removal of parts of the heritable material;” 25.2 Rule 4 speaks of the competent authorities constituted under the Rules and the said Rule reads as under: “4. Competent Authorities:- (1) Recombinant DNA Advisory Committee (RDAC). This Committee shall review developments in Biotechnology at national and international levels and shall recommend suitable and appropriate safety regulations for India in recombinant research, use and applications from time to time. The Committee shall function in the Department of Biotechnology. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2061 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. (2) Review Committee on Genetic Manipulation (RCGM). This committee shall function in the Department of Biotechnology to monitor the safety related aspects in respect of on-going research projects and activities involving genetically engineered organisms/ hazardous microorganisms. The Review Committee on Genetic Manipulation shall include representatives (a) Department of Biotechnology (b) Indian Council of Medical Research (c) Indian Council of Agricultural Research (d) Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (e) other experts in their individual capacity. Review Committee on Genetic Manipulation may appoint sub-groups. It shall bring out Manuals of guidelines specifying procedure for regulatory process with respect to activities involving genetically engineered organisms in research, use and applications including industry with a view to ensure environmental safety. All on-going projects involving high risk category and controlled field experiments shall be reviewed to ensure that adequate precautions and containment conditions are followed as per the guidelines. The Review Committee on Genetic Manipulation shall lay down procedures restricting or prohibiting production, sale, importation and use of such genetically engineered organism or cells as are mentioned in the Schedule. (3) Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBSC). This Committee shall be constituted by an occupier or any person including research institutions handling microorganism/genetically engineered organisms. The committee shall comprise the Head of the Institution, Scientists engaged in DNA work, a medical expert and a nominee of the Department of Biotechnology.