2171 BRS Ventures Investments Ltd. v. SREI Infrastructure Finance Ltd. & Anr. There is a mandate of clause (d) of sub-section (4) of Section 36 of the IBC that the assets of an Indian subsidiary of the corporate debtor shall not be included in the liquidation estate assets and shall not be used for the recovery in liquidation. Section 18 entrusts several duties to the IRPs concerning the corporate debtor’s assets. Consistent with the provisions of Section 36(4)(d), the explanation (b) to Section 18(1) provides that the term ‘assets’ used in Section 18 shall not include the assets of any Indian subsidiary of the corporate debtor. Perhaps the reason for including these two provisions is that it is well-settled that a shareholder has no interest in the company’s assets. This view has been taken by this Court in paragraph 10 of its decision in the case of Bacha F. Guzdar v. Commissioner of Income Tax, Bombay,16 which reads thus: “10. The interest of a shareholder vis-à-vis the company was explained in Charanjit Lal Chowdhury v. Union of India [Charanjit Lal Chowdhury v. Union of India, 1950 SCC 833 at p. 862 : 1950 SCR 869 at p. 904]. That negatives the position taken up on behalf of the appellant that a shareholder has got a right in the property of the company. It is true that the shareholders of the company have the sole determining voice in administering the affairs of the company and are entitled, as provided by the articles of association, to declare that dividends should be distributed out of the profits of the company to the shareholders but the interest of the shareholder either individually or collectively does not amount to more than a right to participate in the profits of the company. The company is a juristic person and is distinct from the shareholders. It is the company which owns the property and not the shareholders. The dividend is a share of the profits declared by the company as liable to be distributed among the shareholders.” (emphasis added) A holding company and its subsidiary are always distinct legal entities. The holding company would own shares of the subsidiary company. That does not make the holding company the owner of 16 [1955] 1 SCR 876 2172 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the subsidiary’s assets. In the case of Vodafone International Holdings BV,6 this Court took the view that if a subsidiary company is wound up, its assets do not belong to the holding company but to the liquidator. As mentioned in the decision, the reason is that a company is a separate legal persona and the fact that the parent company owns all its share has nothing to do with its separate legal existence. Therefore, the assets of the subsidiary company of the corporate debtor cannot be part of the resolution plan of the corporate debtor. 22. In the impugned , the NCLAT has referred to various clauses in the revised resolution plan of ACIL, including clauses 12.3 and 13.3 and held that these clauses do not suggest that the 1st respondent-financial creditor accepted the amount as full and final settlement of all its dues.