The claim, thus, has rightly been rejected by the respondent State. The decisions of the High Court vide the impugned s rejecting the claim of the Appellant thus, cannot be faulted with. 17. The claim of the Appellant for appointment on compassionate grounds having been found to be not sustainable, an aspect that has come to light which requires consideration as has been put forth by the learned Counsel for the Appellant, is with regard to the grant of ex-gratia financial assistance. This is asserted in the light of the 720 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports fact that the claim of the Appellant was pending consideration for compassionate appointment for long with the respondents, and the same had finally been decided on 28.04.2009 by rejecting the same and that too primarily on the ground that the said claim is time barred. It is further stated that in the impugned dated 28.04.2009 that there is no provision for providing job under the ex-gratia scheme in the 2006 Rules. 18. Going by the stand of the respondents, it is apparent that the claim of the Appellant was considered under 2006 Rules which were enforced with effect from 01.08.2006. These Rules apart from other aspects provide for the manner of dealing with the pending cases. Rule 8, which relates to repeal and savings, mentions the earlier prevalent rules, namely the Haryana Compassionate Assistance to the Dependents of the Deceased Government Employee Rules, 2005. The first proviso thereto states that the families would have the option to opt for the lump sum ex-gratia grant provided in the Rules of 2003 or 2005, as the case may be, in lieu of the monthly financial assistance provided under the 2006 Rules. 19. Therefore, as per these 2006 Rules, the claim of dependents of the deceased employee would enure for consideration to ex-gratia compensation. The said claim, therefore, as far as the widow of the deceased is concerned, would survive and operate, especially in light of the fact that her son, for whom she had sought an appointment on compassionate grounds has been found to be ineligible because of he being a minor. A further perusal of the 2003 and 2005 Rules would show that the pending cases were to be dealt with under those rules. 20. The admitted factual position is that all through the claim of employment of the Appellant was pending with the respondents and consequently the right of consideration of claim for ex-gratia compensation would also subsist. Given an option, the mother of the Appellant could have sought the benefit of such compensation had she been informed in time about the non-acceptance of her request for employment of her minor son. She was kept waiting for a final decision on the claim till its rejection in 2009. 21. The Government of Haryana had taken a conscious decision on 16.03.2011 granting a mercy chance as one-time measure to exercise option for ex-gratia compensation. A perusal of the said decision would show that it was a one-time relaxation for applying for ex- [2024] 11 S.C.R.