30. Lastly, it was submitted by the learned senior counsel that the defendant company remained under BIFR for a period of 21 years and was revived in 2013 after intervention of the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs. The economic distress caused by the enforcement of the liability imposed upon the original defendants by the High Court may potentially overwhelm the efforts at revival of the defendant company. C. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT/ ORIGINAL PLAINTIFF 31. Mr. Sundeep Pothina, the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the original plaintiff submitted at the outset that Section 22 of the 1985 Act is not applicable to the instant case as neither the debt [2024] 5 S.C.R. 337 Fertilizer Corporation of India Limited & Ors. v. M/s Coromandal Sacks Private Limited came to be acknowledged, nor the name of the creditor company figured before the BIFR. Since, in the case on hand, the original defendants did not include the liability of the original plaintiff in their list of liabilities in accordance with Section 21(a)(i) of the 1985 Act nor in their book of accounts under Section 21(a)(ii) of the 1985 Act nor did it include the original plaintiff company in the list of creditors under Section 21(b) of the 1985 Act at the time of reference or thereafter, the jurisdictional bar available under Section 22 of the 1985 Act cannot be said to be applicable to the suit instituted by the original plaintiff. 32. It was further submitted that the reliance placed by the original defendants on Bhoruka Textiles (supra) in support of their contention regarding Section 22 of the 1985 Act is misplaced for the following reasons: I. This Court in Bhoruka Textiles (supra) decided the issue as to whether the bar under Section 22 of the 1985 Act would apply to a suit for recovery instituted for defaults occurring post the reference of the sick industrial company to the BIFR when the reference was pending. However, the issue in the present case is different and pertains to whether a suit for determination of ‘illegal deductions’ and ‘breach of contract’ and liability would be barred by virtue of Section 22 of the Act. II. In Bhoruka Textiles (supra), not only the debt but the creditor was also acknowledged before the BIFR and there was no dispute on the issue or size of default. However, in the present case, both the existence and quantum of liability are under dispute. The original defendants have not referred to the original plaintiff as a ‘creditor’ before any forum. 33. It was further argued that the reliance placed by the original defendants on Jay Engineering (supra) is also of no avail as in the facts of that case, there was no dispute over the quantum of dues and the sick company therein had reckoned the dues and the liabilities were covered in the revised rehabilitation scheme. Further, the decision in the said case only supports the contention of the original plaintiff that the adjudicatory process of making an award is not barred under Section 22 of the 1985 Act and it is only the execution of such an award against a sick company which is protected under Section 22 of the 1985 Act.