a. Identification of the depressed classes 128. In 1916, the definition of the depressed classes was raised in the Indian Legislative Council. It was suggested during the discussion that the expression should include criminal and wandering tribes, aboriginal tribes and untouchables.182 In 1917, Sir Henry Sharp, the Education Commissioner, prepared a list of depressed classes which included the aboriginal or hill tribes, depressed classes and criminal tribes. While preparing the list, Sir Henry stated that depressed classes “[…] includes communities which though not absolutely outside the pale of caste, are backward and educationally poor and despised and also certain classes of Muslims. Some have interpreted it as simply educationally backward”.183 129. In 1919, the Southborough Franchise Committee adopted the test of untouchability to define the depressed class. The Indian Franchise Committee 1932, inter alia, was appointed to ascertain if a separate electorate must be provided to the depressed classes. The Committee also had to arrive at a definition of “depressed classes”. The Committee interpreted the phrase “depressed classes” as the ‘untouchability class’, that is, the class whose touch or approach is 182 Report of the Indian Franchise Committee (1932) Vol I, 112 183 Ibid, 113 1406 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports deemed to cause pollution as it exists in the United Provinces.184 The report stated that the depressed classes “should not include primitive or aboriginal tribes nor should it include those Hindus who are only economically poor and in other ways backward but are not regarded as untouchables.”185 The Committee accepted the tests of untouchability formulated by Hutton.186 Hutton had submitted a Census Report in 1931 by which depressed castes were defined as castes, contact with whom requires purification. The instruction which was given to determine if the caste is an untouchable caste was as follows: “I have explained depressed castes as castes, contact with whom entails purification on the part of high caste Hindus. It is not intended that the term should have any reference to occupation as such but to those castes which by reason of their traditional position in Hindu society are denied access to temples, for instance, or have to use separate wells or are not allowed to sit inside a school but have to remain outside or which suffer similar social disabilities. These disabilities vary in different parts of India being much more severe in the south of India than elsewhere.”187 130. The following tests were directed to be considered to determine if the caste faces untouchability: a. Whether the caste or class in question can be served by clean Brahmans; b. Whether the caste or class in question can be served by the barbers, water-carriers, tailors, etc., who serve the caste Hindus; c. Whether the caste in question pollutes a high caste Hindu by contact or by proximity; d. Whether the caste or class in question is one from whose hands a caste Hindu can take water; 184 id 185 id 186 Ibid,Pg. 112 187 Hutton Censes Report (1931) 471 [2024] 8 S.C.R.