When a procedure has been prescribed for a particular purpose exhaustively, no power shall be exercised otherwise than in the manner prescribed by the said provisions. In such cases, the court must be circumspect in invoking its ‘inherent powers’ to deviate from 48 [1966] 3 SCR 856 : 1966 SCC OnLine SC 215. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1847 GLAS Trust Company LLC v. BYJU Raveendran & Ors. the prescribed procedure. If such deviation is made, the court must justify why this was necessary to “prevent the abuse of the process of the Court”. 71. The need to be circumspect while invoking “inherent powers”, when there is an exhaustive legal framework is amplified in the context of a legislation like the IBC. In Ebix Singapore (P) Ltd. vs. Educomp Solutions Ltd. (CoC),49 a two-judge bench of this Court, speaking through one of us (DY Chandrachud, J), affirmed this position and observed as follows: “Any claim seeking an exercise of the adjudicating authority’s residuary powers under Section 60(5)(c) IBC, NCLT’s inherent powers under Rule 11 of the NCLT Rules or even the powers of this Court under Article 142 of the Constitution must be closely scrutinized for broader compliance with the insolvency framework and its underlying objective. The adjudicating mechanisms which have been specifically created by the statute, have a narrowly defined role in the process and must be circumspect in granting reliefs that may run counter to the timeliness and predictability that is central to the IBC. Any judicial creation of a procedural or substantive remedy that is not envisaged by the statute would not only violate the principle of separation of powers, but also run the risk of altering the delicate coordination that is designed by the IBC framework and have grave implications on the outcome of the CIRP, the economy of the country and the lives of the workers and other allied parties who are statutorily bound by the impact of a resolution or liquidation of a Corporate Debtor.” (emphasis supplied) E. Application to the instant case 72. In the preceding section, we have analyzed the law with regard to (i) the principles governing IBC relevant to contextualize the consequences of withdrawing CIRP; (ii) the nature of the proceedings after admission of an application by a creditor; (iii) the evolution of the 49 [2021] 14 SCR 321 : (2022) 2 SCC 401 1848 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports legal framework for the withdrawal of CIRP or settlement of claims; and (iv) the scope of Rule 11 of the NCLAT Rules 2016. We will now apply the above discussion to the specific issues before this Court in the present factual context, namely, the locus of the appellant to institute the present proceedings and the approach of the NCLAT in the Impugned . i. Locus of the appellant before this Court 73. The counsel for the respondents sought to argue that the appellant does not have the locus to maintain the present proceedings before this Court. They contend that in a case for settlement between the Corporate Debtor and the second respondent, there is no scope for hearing any other creditors, such as the appellant.