It then directed the respondent to pay the entire insured sum giving its reasons for the same. Hence, the appellant is correct in stating that the National Commission has transgressed its jurisdiction by interefering with the State Commission’s . 17. The approach of the State Commission is also correct in interpreting and disapplying Condition no. 4 of the insurance policy. Condition No.4 is reproduced hereinbelow for ready reference: “ […] 4. The insured shall take all reasonable steps to safeguard the vehicle from loss or damage and to maintain it in efficient condition and the company shall have at all times free and full access to examine the vehicle or any part thereof or any driver or employee of the insured. In the event of any accident or breakdown, the vehicle shall not be left unattended without proper precautions being taken to prevent further damage or loss and if the vehicle be driven before the necessary repairs are effected any extension of the damage or any further damage to the vehicle shall be entirely at the insured’s own risk. […]” 18. In TEXCO Marketing Pvt. Ltd. v. TATA AIG General Insurance Co. Ltd.,9 this Court explained the principles of interpreting and applying exclusionary clauses in insurance policy. Condition No. 4 merely prescribed that in the event of any accident, the vehicle shall not be left unattended without proper precaution being taken. While 9 [2022] 9 SCR 1031 : (2023) 1 SCC 428 1116 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports interpreting such a clause the Court/Commission or Tribunal will see whether the said obligation has been complied with reasonably or not. The context in which accident occurs and the circumstances that prevailed at the time of accident are extremely important to conclude whether the insured has taken reasonable care or not. The facts of the present case are amply clear that the appellant was acting under compelling circumstances when he had to take his co-passenger to a hospital immediately as his condition was precarious. It is not disputed that the co-passenger had also succumbed to the injury. It is also difficult to imagine that how he could have prevented short-circuiting of the vehicle which had fallen into a ditch. We are of the opinion that the State Commission has come to a correct conclusion that Condition No.4 would not apply in the facts and circumstances of the case. In any event, the respondent has not explained as to how the unavailability of the appellant during the said period has led to further damage of the vehicle and that burden heavily lies on the respondent and the same was not discharged.10 19. As regards the delay in intimation is concerned, we may refer to the decision of this Court in Om Prakash v. Reliance General Insurance & Anr.,11 where it was held that the delay may be condoned if it is properly explained. 20. Conclusion: For the reasons stated above, we allow the present appeals and set aside the impugned dated 16.07.2019 passed by the National Commission in Revision Petition Nos.