[2024] 11 S.C.R. 2325 Central Organisation for Railway Electrification v. M/s ECI SPIC SMO MCML (JV) A Joint Venture Company The later portion of Section 18, which mandates that “each party shall be given a full opportunity to present his case”, further fortifies this view. 54.4 The doctrine of bias and the contours of the test of real likelihood of bias have been discussed through various significant decisions of this Court rendered in the context of administrative and constitutional law. Considering that the issue before us is the legality of a procedure in the arbitration clause, I find it difficult to apply the doctrine of bias or real likelihood of bias at this stage. The real issue is about the imbalance caused due to unilateral power of one of the parties to the contract to constitute the arbitral tribunal. Composition of the arbitral tribunal is part of party autonomy but there is always the power, coupled with duty, of the court to ensure that procedure under the arbitration clause enables constitution of an independent arbitral tribunal. This scrutiny or enquiry by the court is at the stage of considering the application under Section 11. I am of the opinion that we cannot, as an advance ruling, give a declaration that all arbitration clauses enabling unilateral appointments are null and void at this stage. 54.5 I am of the opinion that a priori declaration that arbitration agreements that prescribe unilateral appointment procedures are invalid can lead to many problems in the day-to-day working of arbitral remedies. Particularly for institutions involving multiple transactions such as insurance claims, credit card defaults, etc. involving large number of cases but each claim may be of small sum. Our declaration of law substantially covers domestic arbitration, it will not be confined to high and international commercial arbitration. There could also be situations where the unilateral constitution of the panel of arbitrators could have credible members with respect to which no one can have an objection. Rather than declaring that all such agreements are void, it would be better to strengthen the remedial mechanisms available under the Act. This way, the choice of the parties is not completely ignored, and impartiality and independence of the arbitral tribunal is also ensured through close scrutiny by courts on a case-to-case basis. In any event, as indicated earlier, the enquiry about the arbitration clause will be at the stage of Section 11. 2326 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 55. I consider it necessary to note that mere existence of some relationship with the appointing authority does not inherently undermine autonomy. For instance, senior officers always serve as appellate authorities, and their objectivity is not compromised due to their employment. The solution is in the remedies and certainty in law. System of governances must evolve and recognize the capability in handling distinct professional duties. It is said that the key difference between humans and other beings lies in their ability to think independently and even against our own interests. While it is important to acknowledge potential conflicts of interest, it does not mean that the system must bend backward to cater to unending suspicion and doubt.