The License Agreement is a mandatory pre-requisite for all customers of the respondents who intend to enter into any software agreement with the respondents. 5. It is the case of the petitioner that while it was developing its own software for e-commerce operations in 2015, it was approached by respondent no. 1 who recommended their ‘Hybris Solution’ (hereinafter referred to as the “SAP Hybris Software”) for use by the petitioner. It is the case of the petitioner that respondent no. 1 had, at the relevant point in time, represented that the SAP Hybris Software would be suitable and 90% compatible to the requirements of the petitioner. It was further represented that the customisation of the balance 10% would take about 10 months from the date of execution of an agreement and that the customisation of the SAP Hybris Software would take lesser time than the time the petitioner may take in developing its own technological solution. 6. The transaction for the purchase, customisation and use of the SAP Hybris Software was divided into three separate agreements entered into between the petitioner and respondent no. 1: i. First, Software License and Support Agreement Software Form no. 3 (for short “ Form no. 3”) dated 30.10.2015 for the purchase of SAP Hybris Software License by the petitioner. ii. Second, the Services General Terms and Conditions Agreement (for short “GTC agreement”) dated 30.10.2015 containing the terms and conditions governing the implementation of the SAP Hybris Software. iii. Third, SAP Global Service and Support Agreement, Form no. 1 dated 16.11.2015 (for short “ Form no. 1”) which was executed pursuant to the signing of the GTC agreement and contained the terms of payment between the parties for the services being rendered. 7. It is the case of the petitioner that as it had already entered into the License Agreement with respondent no. 1 in 2010, it was not required to do so again for the purpose of purchasing the SAP Hybris Software. The GTC agreement, Form no. 3 and Form [2024] 9 S.C.R. 203 Cox & Kings Ltd. v. Sap India Pvt. Ltd. & Anr. no. 1 were all executed pursuant to the License Agreement. The said three agreements are ancillary to the License Agreement and have a similar underlying commercial purpose. 8. It is pertinent to note that in terms of Clause 15.7 of the GTC agreement, in the event of any dispute, the parties agreed to resolve their disputes through arbitration. Clause 15.7 of GTC agreement reads as under: “15.7 Dispute Resolution: In the event of any dispute or difference arising out of the subject matter of this Agreement, the Parties shall undertake to resolve such disputes amicably. If disputes and differences cannot be settled amicably then such disputes shall be referred to bench of three arbitrators, where each party will nominate one arbitrator and the two arbitrators shall appoint a third arbitrator. Arbitration award shall be binding on both parties. The arbitration shall be held in Mumbai and each party will bear the expenses of their appointed arbitrator.