This Court has in a catena of decisions elaborated the parameters and carved out such exceptional circumstances which may constitute a valid ground to condone the delay in the interest of justice. These principles include the recent approach that no undue leverage can be extended to the State or its entities in condonation of delay and that no special privilege can be extended to the State or its instrumentalities.6 50. Nevertheless, the Courts have been cognizant of the fact that as a custodian of public interest, the affairs of the State are run and controlled by human beings. Various factors, including the bona fide formation of erroneous opinion, negligence, lack of initiative, lack of fortitude, collusion or connivance, red tapism, blurred legal advice etc., sway the action or inaction of these functionaries. While waiving the public interest vis-à-vis an individual’s interest who claims to have meanwhile acquired a vested right on the expiry of the limitation period, the courts invariably tilt towards the public interest, keeping in view the irreversible loss likely to be suffered by the public at large.7 Even in the case of private litigants, where the appellate court finds that the opposite party can be suitably compensated with cost measures, a lenient and liberal approach is followed in terms of condonation of delay. 51. We may, however, hasten to add that whether a just and valid ground for condonation of delay is made out or not, largely depends on 6 State of Madhya Pradesh & Ors v. Bherulal (2020) 10 SCC 654 7 State of Nagaland v. Lipok AO (2005) 3 SCC 752; Executive Officer, Antiyur Town Panchayat v. G. Arumugam (Dead) by Legal Representatives (2015) 3 SCC 569 [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1343 State of Uttar Pradesh and Anr. v. Virendra Bahadur Katheria and Ors. the facts and circumstances of each case and no one size fits all formula can be applied in this regard. It is, however, not necessary for us to further delve into this issue and/or determine whether the Appellant-State has made out a case for condonation of delay in filing their intra-court appeal before the High Court. We rather proceed on the premise that even if it was a fit case for condonation of delay, will it serve the cause of justice to set aside the impugned of the Division Bench and remit the intra-court appeal for a fresh adjudication on merits? 52. We cannot be oblivious of the fact that the parties started litigating in the year 2002. The dispute had engendered out of a perceived pay anomaly. The State itself acknowledged that there was some disparity in the pay scales that needed to be rectified. Hence, it constituted the Rizvi Committee. That Committee made recommendations, which were broadly fair and just, as various means and measures were recommended to redress the grievances of employees like the Respondents. These measures included the merger of cadres, redesignation and upgradation of posts, the introduction of new pay scales, with an assurance that the redesignated posts would be on a pay scale higher than that of the feeder cadre.