During the pre-trap proceedings, the two mediators were called who were introduced to the complainant (PW-1) and vice versa. DySP (PW-10) stated that it is only after the demonstration of the phenolphthalein powder had been made in presence of all witnesses, that he had called PW-2 who is acquainted 660 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports with the complainant (PW-1), asking him to act as a shadow witness. PW-2 agreed to accompany the complainant (PW-1) and oversee the transaction exchange of bribe. This version is belied when we peruse the deposition of the complainant (PW-1) and PW-2 who categorically stated that it was the complainant (PW-1) who asked PW-2 on 22nd January, 2003 to accompany him to the ACB office. DySP (PW-10) also narrated about the sequence of events leading to the recovery of the trap money from the rexine bag being held by the AO1 (appellant). In cross-examination, DySP (PW-10) admitted that he did not make any enquiry whether the complainant (PW-1) was having any license to run saw-mill or the timber depot under the name of Malikarjun saw-mill. He simply accepted the version of the complainant (PW-1) that he had taken the saw-mill on lease from one E. Ramachary. However, neither any enquiry was made from E. Ramachary nor did the DySP (PW-10) visit the saw-mill before registering the case on the ipse dixit of the complainant (PW-1). He did not ask the complainant (PW-1) to produce the attendance register of the workers employed in the saw-mill. He also did not make any enquiry about the rent receipts issued by E. Ramachary. Smt. Manjula, wife of the complainant (PW-1) was alleged to be the lease holder of the saw-mill. However, DySP (PW-10) neither enquired about the financial status nor about the capability of complainant (PW-1) to pay the compounding fee of Rs.50,000/- under the memo (Exhibit P-2). PW-10 also admittedly did not make any effort to verify the allegation made by the complainant (PW-1) in the complaint (Exhibit P-1) that the appellant (AO1) was demanding mamool (bribe) from him. DySP (PW-10) explained that he got verification done through one Inspector and came to know that the appellant (AO1) was in a habit of demanding mamools (bribe). However, he could not recall the name of the said Inspector. He feigned ignorance having prior knowledge about the complainant (PW-1) and PW-2 being close friends. He admitted that there was no mention in the complaint (Exhibit P-1) as to the place or time where the bribe amount was to be handed over to the appellant (AO1). He also denied having seen the complainant (PW-1) picking up the rexine bag from the table and handing it over to the appellant (AO1). He rather stated that he continuously saw the appellant (AO1) holding the rexine bag. DySP (PW-10) admitted that the fact that “the complainant (PW-1) had asked him to check the rexine bag wherein, the bribe amount was kept at [2024] 7 S.C.R. 661 Mir Mustafa Ali Hasmi v. The State of A.P.