Clause 3.13.8 provides that the PBG shall be returned to the SRA within a period of 7 days, upon 100% completion of the implementation of the Resolution Plan by the SRA. Finally, Clause 3.13.9 states in categorical terms that, the PBG shall not be set-off against or used as part of the consideration that the SRA proposes to offer in relation to the Corporate Debtor, even if expressly indicated as such by the SRA in the Resolution Plan. 101. It is of vital importance that the aforementioned clauses of the RFRP are read conjointly with Clauses 7.3 and 9.4 of the Resolution Plan. Clause 7.3 of the Resolution Plan deals with the “Compliance with respect to Regulation 36B(4A)” and states that the SRA undertakes to provide the PBG as per the terms of the RFRP in favor of the SBI within 7 days of it being declared as the SRA. Clause 9.4 of the Resolution Plan is titled “Implementation” and states that “the performance guarantee provided by the Resolution Applicant can be invoked in accordance with the terms of the RFRP”. Therefore, it is as clear as a noonday that the terms of the RFRP, particularly in relation to the performance security i.e., PBG, stood incorporated in the Resolution Plan by way of Clauses 7.3 and 9.4 respectively of the Resolution Plan. 102. Furthermore, in the Covering Letter adduced with the Resolution Plan, the SRA stated as thus: “4. We hereby undertake that we, and our Representatives, shall at all times, be in compliance with the provisions of the RFRP, the Non-Disclosure Agreement, the IB Code and the CIRP Regulations. xxx xxx xxx c. Acceptance We hereby unconditionally and irrevocably agree and accept the terms of the RFRP and that the decision made 2122 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports by the Resolution Professional, CoC and/or the Adjudicating Authority in respect of any matter with respect to, or arising out of, the RFRP and the Resolution Plan Submission Process shall be binding on us… xxx xxx xxx 10. We confirm that we have not taken any deviations so as to be deemed non-responsive with respect to the provisions of the RFRP, the IB Code and the CIRP Regulations.” (emphasis supplied) A bare reading of the above also strengthens the conclusion that the SRA has to remain compliant with the terms of the RFRP, at all times, in addition to being obedient to the terms of the Resolution Plan. Therefore, to say that the RFRP was merely a wish list of the CoC which was informed to the applicants at the time of inviting plans is incorrect, to say the least. The provisions of the RFRP, especially those provisions related to the Performance Security or PBG, were binding on the SRA. 103. The learned counsel for the SRA tried to place reliance on one another Clause of the Resolution Plan i.e., Clause 6.4.12 which stated that the PBG would bring financial flexibility and help the SRA to advance certain committed payments.