(3) The incomplete application may be rejected by recording reasons.” 8. As is clear from the above, Rule 17 (2) states that applicant was personally responsible for removal of objections raised by the Scrutiny Committee within the time prescribed. Sub-Rule 3 of Rule 17 categorically states that incomplete application may be rejected by recording reasons. [2024] 2 S.C.R. 171 Sudhir Vilas Kalel & Ors. v. Bapu Rajaram Kalel & Ors. 9. For the purpose of adjudicating this case, alongside the above statutes, certain provisions of the Maharashtra Village Panchayats Act, 1959 [hereinafter referred to as the “Panchayats Act”] which come into play, need to be set out and analyzed. Section 10-1A, reads as follows: “10-1A. Person contesting election for reserved seat to submit Caste Certificate and Validity Certificate. - Every person desirous of contesting election to a seat reserved for Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes or, as the case may be, Backward Class of Citizens, shall be required to submit, alongwith the nomination paper, Caste Certificate issued by the Competent Authority and the Validity Certificate issued by the Scrutiny Committee in accordance with the provisions of the Maharashtra Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, De-notified Tribes (Vimukta Jatis), Nomadic Tribes, other Backward Classes and Special Backward Category (Regulation of Issuance and Verification of) Caste Certificate Act, 2000: Provided that, for the General or by-elections for which the last date of filing of nomination falls on or before the 31st December 20231, in accordance with the election programme declared by the State Election Commission, a person who has applied to the Scrutiny Committee for verification of his Caste Certificate before the date of filing of the nomination papers but who has not received the Validity Certificate on the date of filing of the nomination papers shall submit, along with the nomination papers, - (i) a true copy of the application preferred by him to the Scrutiny Committee for issuance of the Validity Certificate or any other proof of having made such application to the Scrutiny Committee; and (ii) an undertaking that he shall submit, within a period of twelve months from the date on which he is declared elected, the Validity Certificate issued by the Scrutiny Committee: 1 (This date was originally 28.02.2021, at the time of the election in question) 172 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Provided further that, if such person fails to produce the Validity Certificate within a period of twelve months from the date on which he is declared elected, his election shall be deemed to have been terminated retrospectively and he shall be disqualified for being a member.’’ A similar provision in the form of Section 30(1A) exists for persons contesting for the reserved office of Sarpanch. 10. In view of the above provision, every person desirous of contesting election to a membership in the reserved category, shall submit alongwith the nomination paper, Caste Certificate issued by the Competent Authority and the Validity Certificate issued by the Scrutiny Committee in accordance with Caste Certificate Act, 2000. The proviso sets out that for elections for which the last date of filing of nomination fell on or before the date prescribed in the proviso, a person who has applied to the Scrutiny Committee for verification of his Caste Certificate before the date of filing of the nomination papers but who has not yet received the Validity Certificate shall submit, along with the nomination papers, an undertaking that he shall submit the same, within a period of twelve months from the date on which he is declared elected.