(g) In the suit, the Trial Court framed the following issues: (i) Is the suit maintainable in its present form and nature? (ii) Has the plaintiff any cause of action to institute the instant suit? (iii) Has the plaintiff entered into a registered agreement for sale dated 27.05.2016 with Prabha Ranjan Das (predecessor of the defendants) to purchase the suit land? (iv) Are the averments available in the plaint in respect of readiness and willingness to perform the part of the [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1191 Parswanath Saha v. Bandhana Modak (Das) and Anr. contract in its true construction sufficient to enforce specific performance as prayed for? (v) Is the plaintiff entitled to get a registered sale deed in terms of agreement for sale? (vi) Is the plaintiff entitled to get a decree as prayed for? (vii) What other relief / reliefs the plaintiff is entitled to? (h) The suit ultimately came to be allowed in favour of the appellant herein vide and decree dated 20.11.2018. The operative part of the passed by the Trial Court reads thus: “In the result, the suit is decreed with cost in favour of the plaintiff with following directions: (a) the defendant No. 1 Smt. Bandana Modak (Das) shall execute a Registered Deed of Sale on behalf of herself and also being the guardian on behalf of her minor son i.e. defendant No. 2 Master Diptanu Das in favour of the plaintiff Shri Parswanath Saha for the suit land measuring 1 ganda 1 kara of land alongwith building thereon measuring 529 sq.ft appertaining to Khatian No.347 having R.S. Plot No.151 within a period of forty five days from the date of drawing up of decree failing which the plaintiff will be entitled to get the Sale Deed be executed through this Court as per law subject to payment of rest consideration amount of Rs.13,50,000/- (thirteen lac fifty thousand) only by the plaintiff to the defendants; (b) the defendants shall hand over the possession of the suit land to the plaintiff immediately after execution of the above mentioned Sale Deed along with all the documents of title relating to the suit property which are in the defendants’ possession or power. Prepare decree accordingly. Sheristadar of my Court is hereby directed to prepare the decree in the light of my above and to place it before me for my signatures within 15 (fifteen) days from the date of passing of this . 1192 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports Make necessary entry in the Trial Register. Thus this case is disposed of without contest.” (i) The respondents herein (Original Defendants) went in appeal before the High Court. The High Court allowed the appeal essentially on the ground that Late Prabha Ranjan Das was unable to foresee the hardship that would be caused to him and the family at the time when he executed the Agreement of Sale with respect to the suit property. The High Court accepted that Late Prabha Ranjan Das executed the registered Agreement of Sale with respect to the suit property and had also accepted Rs.