32. In All India Manufacturers Organisation and Others (supra), this Court examined the question of res judicata observing that it is based upon larger public interest, being founded on two grounds: firstly, no one should be vexed twice for one and the same cause; and secondly, there should be an end to the same litigation. This Court further observed that Section 11 is a statutory recognition of the principle of res judicata and, therefore, not a complete code, or exhaustive of the general law and principle of res judicata. This Court thereafter observed, that a in public interest litigation, when the litigation is bona fide, operates in rem. It binds the public at large. Thereafter, it examined Explanations (III) and (IV) to Section 11. Specific reference is made to the in Greenhalgh v. Mallard,21 which observes that it would be an abuse of the process of the court to allow a new proceeding to be started in respect of the same issue which has already been decided. This principle will equally apply to every other matter where the parties might or ought to have litigated. The principle applies when issues have been decided incidentally or essentially connected with the subject matter of litigation so as to come within the purview of the original action both in respect of the matter of claim and defence. 33. In V. Purushotham Rao v. Union of India and Others,22 a question that arose before this Court was whether the principle of constructive res judicata should be applied as there was an earlier . The contention was rejected as being devoid of any substance, by observing that the earlier Writ Petition under Article 32 was regarding cancellation of 15 allotments of petroleum and gas dealerships and 21 (1947) 2 All England Reporter 255 (CA). 22 [2001] Supp. 4 SCR 411 : (2001) 10 SCC 305 [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1399 State of Andhra Pradesh and Others v. Dr. Rao, V.B.J. Chelikani and Others final directions given to the High Court to dispose of the pending Writ Petition after examining the individual cases. Clearly, in the present matter also, in the first litigation and decision which has been quoted above, allotments made were quashed and therefore, the effect thereof was that none of the Cooperative Societies or its members would have been entitled to any benefit. 34. A more authoritative pronouncement on the said subject is to be found in a recent decision of this Court in National Confederation of Officers Association of Central Public Sector Enterprises and Others v. Union of India and Others,23 wherein it takes notice of the argument relating to applicability of res judicata and constructive res judicata to PILs. This not only examines the provisions of Section 11 of the CPC but the of this Court in Rural Litigation and Entitlement Kendra v. State of U.P.,24 wherein it is observed that in PILs, every technicality in procedural law is not available in defence. Therefore, it would be wrong to dismiss a matter involving grave public importance, to entertain the plea of res judicata.