Explanation 2. For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that the interest under Section 28AB shall be payable on the amount paid by the person under this sub-section and also on the amount of short-payment of duty, if any, as may be determined by the proper officer, but for this sub-section. [2024] 12 S.C.R. 299 Commissioner of Customs v. M/s Canon India Pvt. Ltd. (2C) The provisions of sub-Section (2B) shall not apply to any case where the duty or the interest had become payable or ought to have been paid before the date on which the Finance Bill 2001 receives the assent of the President. (3) For the purposes of sub-section (1), the expression "relevant date" means,- (a) in a case where duty is not levied, or interest is not charged, the date on which the proper officer makes an for the clearance of the goods; (b) in a case where duty is provisionally assessed under section 18, the date of adjustment of duty after the final assessment thereof; (c) in a case where duty or interest has been erroneously refunded, the date of refund; (d) in any other case, the date of payment of duty or interest.” 134. Thereafter, Section 28 was re-cast and a new scheme of the section was introduced vide the Finance Act, 2011 promulgated with effect from 08.04.2011. Section 28, as it stands after the amendment, is reproduced below: “28. Recovery of duties not levied or short-levied or erroneously refunded. (1) Where any duty has not been levied or has been short- levied or erroneously refunded, or any interest payable has not been paid, part-paid or erroneously refunded, for any reason other than the reasons of collusion or any wilful mis-statement or suppression of facts,- (a) the proper officer shall, within one year from the relevant date, serve notice on the person chargeable with the duty or interest which has not been so levied or which has been short-levied or short-paid or to whom the refund has erroneously been made, requiring him to show cause why he should not pay the amount specified in the notice; 300 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (b) the person chargeable with the duty or interest, may pay before service of notice under clause (a) on the basis of,- (i) his own ascertainment of such duty; or (ii) the duty ascertained by the proper officer, the amount of duty along with the interest payable thereon under section 28AA or the amount of interest which has not been so paid or part-paid. (2) The person who has paid the duty along with interest or amount of interest under clause (b) of sub-section (1) shall inform the proper officer of such payment in writing, who, on receipt of such information shall not serve any notice under clause (a) of that sub-section in respect of the duty or interest so paid or any penalty leviable under the provisions of this Act or the rules made thereunder in respect of such duty or interest.