Dismissal, removal or reduction in rank of persons employed in civil capacities under the Union or a State. xxx (2) No such person as aforesaid shall be dismissed or removed or reduced in rank except after an inquiry in which he has been informed of the charges against him and given a reasonable opportunity of being heard in respect of those charges. xxx” [2024] 8 S.C.R. 909 Swati Priyadarshini v. The State of Madhya Pradesh & Ors. a person claiming continuation was satisfactory. For this proposition, reliance was placed on State of Uttar Pradesh v Ram Bachan Tripathi, (2005) 6 SCC 496 and Rajesh Kumar Shrivastava v State of Jharkhand, (2011) 4 SCC 447. 21. It was submitted that the dated 30.03.2013 was an simpliciter without involving any stigma being basically an of non-extension of the appellant’s contractual services. He submitted that it does not involve any evil consequences nor is founded on any misconduct. The further submission was that the appellant, having been appointed on contractual basis, has no right of service as such. 22. Relying upon the terms of service, it was pointed out that the same clearly indicated that the appointment would be purely temporary in nature and subject to the contractual conditions stipulated in the contract. It was submitted the even the letter of appointment dated 15.10.2012, under “Service Conditions” stated that: “1. This appointment will be absolutely temporary and will be under the contract conditions of Mission. 2. If the work is not found satisfactory or if the post is not required, then the service can be terminated without any prior information. …” 23. In the aforesaid light, it was submitted that in the present case despite the appellant having been issued SCNs seeking explanation for her non-performance, there was no improvement from her end and since her work was found to be unsatisfactory, the contract was not extended. In support of his contentions, learned counsel also relied upon the following: 1. State of Uttar Pradesh v Ram Chandra Trivedi (1976) 4 SCC 52 2. Chandra Prakash Shahi v State of Uttar Pradesh (2000) 5 SCC 152 24. It was submitted that the appellant was in the habit of remaining absent from work and neither discharged her duty of marking the names of specially-abled boys/girls and nor did verification of the specified list prepared by the Department of Social Justice for execution of several activities through the Arushi Institutions. Further, it was 910 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports contended that in the Committee constituted to appoint volunteers and MRC in the Arushi Institutions, the appellant was appointed as the representative of District Education Centre and due to her non- cooperative, obstructive and negligent attitude, such appointment were not made, leading to other activities, including education, being adversely affected. 25. Moreover, it was submitted that the appellant did not submit a report on the hostel when it was under her monitoring and she did not inform whether there was any improvement or not and if so, the details thereof and steps taken.