The Court then applied this test to the novel in question. By placing themselves in the position of the author and judging the work from his perspective, the Court found that his intention was to expose social evils and ills, for which the author has used his own technique. Similarly, the Court placed itself in the position of the readers who are likely to read the book. It held that the book was likely to be read by readers of “both sexes and all ages between teenagers and the aged” and found that while it may create a sense of shock and disgust, no reader would be depraved, debased, or encouraged to lasciviousness by reading the book.38 21. In Bobby Art International (supra) the question before the Court was whether certain scenes from the film ‘Bandit Queen’ that depicted rape and nudity were obscene. Here, obscenity was not considered under Section 292 but under the 1991 Guidelines for Censor Board certification under the Cinematograph Act, 1952.39 The Court did not 38 ibid. 39 The relevant guidelines, as extracted in Bobby Art International (supra), are as follows: “15. The guidelines earlier issued were revised in 1991. Clause (1) thereof reads thus: “1. The objectives of film certification will be to ensure that— (a) the medium of film remains responsible and sensitive to the values and standards of society; [2024] 3 S.C.R. 1167 Apoorva Arora & Anr. Etc. v. State (Govt. of Nct of Delhi) & Anr. cite or follow the Hicklin test as laid down in Ranjit Udeshi (supra) and Chandrakant Kalyandas (supra). Instead, it relied on the Guidelines and laid down the test for obscenity as follows: “22. The guidelines aforementioned have been carefully drawn. They require the authorities concerned with film certification to be responsive to the values and standards of society and take note of social change. They are required to ensure that “artistic expression and creative freedom are not unduly curbed”. The film must be “judged in its entirety from the point of view of its overall impact”. It must also be judged in the light of the period depicted and the contemporary standards of the people to whom it relates, but it must not deprave the morality of the audience. Clause 2 requires that human sensibilities are not offended by vulgarity, obscenity or depravity, that scenes degrading or denigrating women are not presented and scenes of sexual violence against women are avoided, but if such scenes are germane to the theme, they be reduced to a minimum and not particularised.” 22. The Court first considered the plot and theme of the film as a whole and then considered the individual scenes of nudity and rape. Judging the work as a whole and the alleged offending material specifically, the Court held that the scenes are likely to evoke tears, pity, horror, and shame. Only a perverted mind might be aroused in such a situation, (b) artistic expression and creative freedom are not unduly curbed; (c) certification is responsive to social change; (d) the medium of film provides clean and healthy entertainment; and (e) as far as possible, the film is of aesthetic value and cinematically of a good standard.” Clause (2) states that the Board of Film Censors shall ensure that— “2.