(b) hear and dispose of appeal against any direction, decision or of the Authority under this Act. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1415 Airports Economic Regulatory Authority of India v. Delhi International Airport Ltd. & Ors. 10. Section 18 of the AERA Act deals with the procedure for settlement of disputes and appeals to the Appellate Tribunal. Sub-sections (1) and (2) of Section 18 provide that the Central Government, the State Government, a Local Authority or any person may make an application for adjudication of a dispute covered by Section 17(a) or prefer an appeal against the of AERA. Section 18(4) stipulates that TDSAT must pass s after giving the “parties to the dispute or the appeal” the opportunity of being heard. Section 18(5) provides that TDSAT must send a copy of the to the parties to the dispute or the appeal and the Authority, “as the case may be”: “(5) The Appellate Tribunal shall send a copy of every made by it to the parties to the dispute or the appeal and to the Authority, as the case may be.” (emphasis supplied) 11. In terms of sub-section (6), TDSAT must endeavour to dispose the application or the appeal within ninety days of the receipt of it. It must record reasons in writing if it is unable to dispose the application within the specified period. Sub-section (7) provides that TDSAT may call for the records relevant to disposing the appeal or application.15 15 “18. Application for settlement of disputes and appeals to Appellate Tribunal.—(1) The Central Government or a State Government or a local authority or any person may make an application to the Appellate Tribunal for adjudication of any dispute as referred to in clause (a) of section 17. (2) The Central Government or a State Government or a local authority or any person aggrieved by any direction, decision or made by the Authority may prefer an appeal to the Appellate Tribunal. (3) Every appeal under sub-section (2) shall be preferred within a period of thirty days from the date on which a copy of the direction or or decision made by the Authority is received by the Central Government or the State Government or the local authority or the aggrieved person and it shall be in such form, verified in such manner and be accompanied by such fee as may be prescribed: Provided that the Appellate Tribunal may entertain any appeal after the expiry of the said period of thirty days if it is satisfied that there was sufficient cause for not filing it within that period. (4) On receipt of an application under sub-section (1) or an appeal under sub-section (2), the Appellate Tribunal may, after giving the parties to the dispute or the appeal an opportunity of being heard, pass such s thereon as it thinks fit. (5) The Appellate Tribunal shall send a copy of every made by it to the parties to the dispute or the appeal and to the Authority, as the case may be.