The same are extracted above. A reading of the above clearly indicates that the Custodian or his authorised person can carry on the business of the enemy; fix and collect the rent etc. in respect of enemy property; take action for recovering any money due to the enemy; make any contract and execute any document in the name and on behalf of the enemy; institute or defend any legal proceeding; secure vacant possession of the enemy property; raise on the security of the property such loans as may be necessary; incur out of the property any expenditure including payment of any taxes, duties, cesses and rates to Government, or to any local authority, pay wages, salaries, pensions, etc. to or in respect of any employee of the enemy and repayment of any debts due by the enemy to persons other than enemies; transfer or otherwise dispose of any of the enemy properties; invest any moneys held by him on behalf of the enemies for the purpose of Government securities 904 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports etc. ; make payments to the enemy at his dependants; make payments on behalf of the enemy to persons other that those enemies, of dues outstanding; make such other payments out of the funds of the enemy as may be directed by the Central Government. 15.8 What emerges from the above is that the activities that the Custodian or his authorised person carries out vis-à-vis the enemy such as the business of the enemy or in respect of managing the enemy property would also clearly indicate that the Custodian of the Enemy Property holds the said property in trust or as a trustee and not as an owner of the enemy property or by exercising rights of ownership over the enemy property. Carrying on the business of the enemy and dealing with the property of the enemy vested in the Custodian is in to protect the business belonging to an enemy or enemy subject or enemy firm, who has left the country. The Custodian of Enemy Property for India who acts on behalf of the Enemy holds in trust the enemy property vested in him under the provisions of the Act. He does so as a trustee and therefore, the principles and legal doctrines applicable to a trustee are applicable to the Custodian accordingly. 15.9 It is trite that a trustee or Custodian in the instant case can never be the owner of the property. The vesting of property in a trustee or the Custodian which, in the instant case, is enemy property as defined under the Act is for the purpose of managing the said property and protecting it, so that the property does not fall into the hands of trespassers, unauthorised persons or render it as being ownerless and therefore, a free for all, so to say owing to the absence of the owner. The object and purpose of the Act is to ensure that the enemy property, which vests in the Custodian, is held in trust and is looked after, protected and managed as per the provisions of the Act.