This will disturb the commercial bargains entered into by both the government and private entities. Therefore, we hold that the law laid down in the present reference will apply prospectively to arbitrator appointments to be made after the date of this . This direction only applies to three-member tribunals. 306 Sarwan Kumar v. Madan Lal Aggarwal (2003) 4 SCC 147 [15] 307 2024 SCC OnLine SC 1974 308 (2012) 9 SCC 552 309 (2002) 4 SCC 105 2278 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports J. Conclusion 169. In view of the above discussion, we conclude that: a. The principle of equal treatment of parties applies at all stages of arbitration proceedings, including the stage of appointment of arbitrators; b. The Arbitration Act does not prohibit PSUs from empanelling potential arbitrators. However, an arbitration clause cannot mandate the other party to select its arbitrator from the panel curated by PSUs; c. A clause that allows one party to unilaterally appoint a sole arbitrator gives rise to justifiable doubts as to the independence and impartiality of the arbitrator. Further, such a unilateral clause is exclusive and hinders equal participation of the other party in the appointment process of arbitrators; d. In the appointment of a three-member panel, mandating the other party to select its arbitrator from a curated panel of potential arbitrators is against the principle of equal treatment of parties. In this situation, there is no effective counterbalance because parties do not participate equally in the process of appointing arbitrators. The process of appointing arbitrators in CORE (supra) is unequal and prejudiced in favour of the Railways; e. Unilateral appointment clauses in public-private contracts are violative of Article 14 of the Constitution; f. The principle of express waiver contained under the proviso to Section 12(5) also applies to situations where the parties seek to waive the allegation of bias against an arbitrator appointed unilaterally by one of the parties. After the disputes have arisen, the parties can determine whether there is a necessity to waive the nemo judex rule; and g. The law laid down in the present reference will apply prospectively to arbitrator appointments to be made after the date of this . This direction applies to three-member tribunals. 170. The reference is answered in the above terms. 171. Pending application(s), if any, shall stand disposed of. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2279 Central Organisation for Railway Electrification v. M/s ECI SPIC SMO MCML (JV) A Joint Venture Company Hrishikesh Roy, J. 1. I have read the scholarly of the learned Chief Justice DY Chandrachud and also the erudite one authored by brother Justice PS Narasimha. 2. I am in agreement with the view of the learned Chief Justice that the principle of equality under Section 18 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act,1996(for short ‘Arbitration Act’) applies at all stages of the proceedings including the stage of appointment of arbitrators. His offers a thorough examination (in Part D) of the mandatory provisions within the Model Law and the Arbitration Act, which underscores the applicability of the equality principle and the same is not reiterated here for the sake of brevity.