Digital Supreme Court Reports house. She also denied the suggestion that they had chit fund amount to be repaid to the accused. She further denied the suggestion that the deceased might have committed suicide for some other reason and that the accused was falsely implicated as he had refused to marry the deceased. 16. Diwakar is the husband of Shantha, the second sister of the deceased. Diwakar is PW-3. In his examination in chief, he stated that at the time of her death the deceased was residing with PW-2 at Vinayakanagar. PW-2 was also the sister of his wife Shantha. 16.1 On 05.07.2000 at about 09:30 AM, the deceased X had telephoned his wife Shantha and told her that she had consumed poison. At that time, he was present near his wife Shantha. According to PW-3, he and his wife Shantha immediately went to the house of the deceased at Paduvarahalli. The deceased talked with his wife Shantha. They shifted the deceased X to Nirmala Hospital and from there to Mission Hospital. On 06.07.2000, the deceased died in the hospital during the night time. 16.2 He stated that his wife Shantha had told him that the accused was responsible for the suicidal death of the deceased. 16.3 In his cross-examination PW-3 stated that before the death of X his wife Shantha had told him about the accused being responsible for X consuming poison. When they had gone to the house of X and were taking her to the hospital, X had told his wife Shantha that due to the harassment of the accused she had consumed poison. Earlier thereto he did not know this fact. He had seen the accused when he used to reside in a portion of the house as a tenant. The accused had vacated the house two years prior to the incident whereafter he had neither seen the accused nor knew about his whereabouts. 16.4 PW-3 denied the suggestion put forward by the defence that he had stated before the police that the deceased X was in an unconscious condition when they had reached her house and that his wife had not told him that the accused was the reason for the deceased consuming poison. However, he stated that he did not hear what the deceased X had told his wife Shantha. [2024] 3 S.C.R. 341 Kumar @ Shiva Kumar v. State of Karnataka 17. Shantha herself deposed as PW-4. She stated that on 05.07.2000 at about 11:00 to 11:15 AM. the deceased had telephoned her and told her that while she was returning home from the school after dropping the children the accused accosted her on the way. He threatened her that she should marry him and in case of her refusal he would kill her by pouring acid on her. Because of this she had consumed poison to finish her life to bring an end to the matter. Immediately PW-4 and her husband PW-3 came to the house of the deceased. 17.1 PW-4 stated that when they reached the house of the deceased X, she was lying on the floor and the phone receiver was in a hanging position.