This, in our opinion, does not contradict the eclipse by way of moratorium, because the transactions are treated as singular and one. When transactions are closely connected, a claim for transactional set-off during the moratorium period on a claim by the Resolution Professional, is by way of a defence to protect the legitimate expectation and respect legal certainty. 34. Thus, while accepting contractual and transactional set-off on the conditions specified, we have struck a balance with the doctrines of pari passu and anti-deprivation, which we believe is just and fair. Insolvency set-off in terms of Regulation 29 of the Liquidation Regulations is statutory. 46 See Derham, supra note 25 and Gerard McCormack, Set-off under the European Insolvency Regula- tion (and English Law), 29 IIR 100, 100-117 (2020). 162 [2024] 1 S.C.R. DIGITAL SUPREME COURT REPORTS 35. In the context of the present case, the aforesaid legal position takes care of the argument raised on behalf of the appellant Airtel entities that the Resolution Professional had allowed set-off of about Rs. 64 crores which was due and payable by the corporate debtor Aircel entities under the operational services agreement, the SMSs services agreement, and the interconnect usage agreements prior to commencement of the Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process from the dues payable by the corporate debtor (Aircel entities) to the Airtel entities. The contractual set-off had occurred prior to the commencement date. This aspect has been further elucidated in paragraph 50 below. 36. The decision of the House of Lords in British Eagle International Airlines Ltd v. Compagnie Nationale Air France47 demonstrates the interaction between the contractual set-off mechanism and the set-off rules as applicable to insolvency in the United Kingdom. In this case, the company under liquidation was a member of International Airport Transport Association which had a clearing house system for ticket sales by member airlines. All payments were channelised through the clearing house and at the end of the accounting period, all debits and credits due to transactions were totalled to arrive at a figure for a net debit or credit. In the said case, British Eagle went into liquidation and were net debtors to the clearing house. They had a claim against Air France. The House of Lords held that Air France was bound to pay the liquidator the money owed to British Eagles.48 The majority also observed that the clearing house medium was possibly analogous to that of secured creditors, albeit without creation and registration of security interests. Therefore, preference to the clearing house agent would be contrary to public policy. 49 37. Our finding that the IBC is a complete code relying upon the opening part of the enactment and Sections 238 and 243 takes care and nullifies the argument raised by the appellant Airtel entities that they are entitled to statutory set-off or insolvency set-off, in the Corporate Insolvency Resolution Proceedings under Chapter II Part II of the 47 1975 1 WLR 758. 48 McCormack, supra note 46. 49 The contractual and consequently the legal position has undergone a change as the IATA clearing house rules have since been amended.