The Committee conveyed serious reservations on the issuance of electoral bonds in the physical form. The reservations were communicated by the RBI to the Finance Minister by a letter dated 27 September 2017. The reservations are catalogued below: a. Issuance of currency is a ‘monopolistic function’ of a central authority which is why Section 31 of the RBI Act bars any person other than the RBI from issuing bearer bonds; b. Issuance of electoral bonds in the scrips will run the risk of money laundering since the consideration for transfer of scrips from the original subscriber to a transferee will be paid in cash. This will not leave any trail of transactions. While this would provide anonymity to the contributor, it will also provide anonymity to several others in the chain of transfer; c. Issuance of electoral bonds in the scrip form could also expose it to the risk of forgery and cross-b counterfeiting besides offering a convenient vehicle for abuse by “aggregators”; and d. The electoral bond may not only be seen as facilitating money laundering but could also be projected (albeit wrongly) as enablinigt . 22. On 26 May 2017, the Election Commission of India”? wrote to the Ministry of Law and Justice that the amendments to the IT Act, 23 “ECD [2024] 2 S.C.R. 461 Association for Democratic Reforms & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. RPA, and Companies Act introduced by the Finance Act 2017 will have a “serious impact on transparency of political finance/ funding of political parties.” The letter notes that the amendment to the RPA by which donations through electoral bonds were not required to be disclosed is a retrograde step towards transparency of donations: “O(il) It is evident from the Amendment which has been made, that any donation received by a political party through electoral bond has been taken out of the ambit of reporting under the Contribution Report as prescribed under Section 29C of the Representation of the People Act 1951 and therefore, this is a retrograde step as far as transparency of donations is concerned and this proviso needs to be withdrawn. (ili) Moreover, in a situation where contributions received through Electoral Bonds is not reported, on perusal of the Contribution reports of the political parties, it cannot be ascertained whether the political party has taken any donation in violation of provisions under Section 29B of the Representation of the People Act 1951 which prohibits the political parties from donations from Government Companies and Foreign sources.” 23. Referring to the deletion of the provision in the Companies Act requiring companies to disclose particulars of the amount contributed to specific political parties, the EC] recommended that companies contributing to political parties must declare party-wise contributions in the profit and loss account to maintain transparency in the financial funding of political parties. Further, the ECI also expressed its apprehension to the deletion of the first proviso to Section 182(1) by which the cap on corporate donations was removed. The ECI recommended that the earlier provision prescribing a cap on corporate funding be reintroduced because: a.