by substituting a workable formula under the agreement by another, dehors the agreement. This, in the view of the Court, breached the fundamental principles of justice, namely, that a unilateral addition or alteration of a contract can never be foisted upon an unwilling party, nor can a party to the agreement be liable to perform a bargain not entered with the other party.46 However, a note of caution was expressed in the by observing that this ground is available only in very exceptional circumstances and under no circumstance can any court interfere with an arbitral award on the ground that justice has not been done in the opinion of the court because that would be an entry into the merits of the dispute. 58. In the light of the discussion above, in our view, when we talk about justice being done, it is about rendering, in accord with law, what is right and equitable to one who has suffered a wrong. Justice is the virtue by which the society/ court / tribunal gives a man his due, opposed to injury or wrong. Dispensation of justice in its quality may vary, dependent on person who dispenses it. A trained judicial mind may dispense justice in a manner different from what a person of ordinary prudence would do. This is so, because a trained judicial mind is likely to figure out even minor infractions of law/ norms which may escape the attention of a person with ordinary prudence. Therefore, the placement of words “most basic notions” before “of justice” in Explanation 1 has its significance. Notably, at the time when the 2015 Amendment was brought, the existing law with regard to grounds for setting aside an arbitral award, as interpreted by this Court, was that an arbitral award would be in conflict with public policy of India, if it is contrary to: (a) the fundamental policy of Indian law; (b) the interest of India; (c) justice or morality; and /or is (d) patently illegal. As we have already noticed, the object of inserting Explanations 1 and 2 in place of earlier explanation to Section 34(2)(b)(ii) was to limit the scope of interference with an arbitral award, therefore the amendment consciously qualified the term ‘justice’ with ‘most basic notions’ of it. In such circumstances, giving a broad dimension to this category47 would be deviating from the legislative intent. In our view, therefore, considering that the concept of justice is open- textured, and notions of justice could evolve with changing needs of the society, it would 46 See paragraph 76 of the in Ssyanyong (supra) 47 in conflict with most basic notions of morality or justice 542 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports not be prudent to cull out “the most basic notions of justice”. Suffice it to observe, they48 ought to be such elementary principles of justice that their violation could be figured out by a prudent member of the public who may, or may not, be judicially trained, which means, that their violation would shock the conscience of a legally trained mind.