v. Union of India & Ors. Committee under the MoA. This committee shall include experts from the disciplines concerned including the Crop Project Coordinators or Director, officials of Seed or Crops Divisions of DAC and ICAR, socio- economists, progressive farmers, NGOs and the private sector representatives. h. Once a GM crop variety/hybrid is released, a well-designed case-by-case post-release monitoring system must be put in place jointly by the Department of Agriculture and Cooperation (DoAC) and ICAR to address specific post-release issues identified during the event approval by GEAC. Such a system should also monitor the long term effects from the point of view of food safety, soil health, environment and agronomic performance. i. Finally, the MoA may also consider issuing a separate notification on priority for the general release of GM crops at par with New Seeds Policy, while legally ensuring much needed harmonization of both EPA under Ministry of Environment and Forests (MoEF) and the Seed Act under MoA. 10.8 A corrigendum was issued to the final report of TEC on 12.07.2013. Paragraph 6 of the Majority Report is modified by the corrigendum, which reads as under: “6. page 71, lines 3-5: “… exert a highly adverse impact over time on sustainable agriculture, rural livelihoods, and environment. The TEC finds them completely unsuitable in the Indian context.” Corrected: “… exert a highly adverse impact on sustainable agriculture, rural livelihoods, and environment. The TEC finds them completely unsuitable in the Indian context and recommends that field trials and release of HT crops not be allowed in India.” 1994 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Parliamentary Standing Committee (PSC) on Agriculture’s Report on “Cultivation of Genetically Modified Food Crops – Prospects and Effects” – 2012: 11. The aforesaid Report, submitted on 09.08.2012, has been relied upon by the learned counsel Sri Prashant Bhushan. The salient observations and recommendations of the said Committee are encapsulated in the following paragraphs: i. To ascertain the efficacy of the extant system in general and the role of GEAC as the apex regulator in particular, the Committee sought the views of Dr. P.M. Bhargava, founder Director of CCMB, Hyderabad and then the Supreme Court nominee on GEAC. The gist of the testimony of Dr. P.M. Bhargava given on 22.12.2010 can be crystallised in the following points: a. All the tests on Bt cotton have either been conducted by the concerned applicant for approval, or by an accredited laboratory on the samples given by the applicant. The Bt cotton was tested and approved surreptitiously without adequate information being available to the public. b. The Bt brinjal was approved on the basis of an expert committee report, which lacked in scientific quality, credibility, consistency and rigour. Relying upon a private conversation with the then Co-Chairman of GEAC, Prof. Arjula Reddy, Dr. Bhargava claimed that the former was under pressure to approve Bt brinjal and to give a go by to the chronic toxicity and other tests which had been proposed by the latter. He also claimed that the Co-Chairman confided in him that even the tests undertaken were performed badly.