The of this Court reads thus: “Mr. K.B. Sinha, senior advocate appearing for the petitioners submits that after coming into force of the Uttaranchal (The Uttar Pradesh Zamindari Abolition and Land Reforms Act, 1950) (Adaptation and Modification , 2001) (Amendment) Act, 2003, the sale of the suit land in terms of the decrees of the Court would be violative of the provisions of the Act because the plaintiff is not an agriculturist. Issue notice. In the meanwhile, there shall be stay of operation of the impugned decree.” On 12th August 2013, leave was granted. This Court granted a stay to the operation of the impugned decrees on 26th October 2010. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 403 Maharaj Singh & Ors. v. Karan Singh (Dead) Thr. Lrs. & Ors. SUBMISSIONS 8. The learned senior counsel appearing for the second to fourth defendants submitted that the three Courts refused to consider the submission that the suit agreement was sham and bogus. By pointing out Sections 91 and 92 of the Evidence Act, he urged that the provisions did not prevent the defendants from leading evidence to show that the suit agreement was bogus or sham. He relied on the Privy Council’s decision in the case of Tyagaraja Mudaliyar and Anr. v. Vedathanni1. He submitted that Sections 91 and 92 of the Evidence Act do not exclude evidence on the question of whether the parties had agreed to contract on the terms set forth in the document. He also relied upon a decision of this Court in the case of Krishnabai Bhritar Ganpatrao Deshmukh v. Appasaheb Tuljaramarao Nimbalkar & Ors.2. He submitted that it was brought on record in the depositions of the second plaintiff who was the uncle of the first defendant, and Bhagwati Devi, the mother of the first defendant, that the first defendant had many vices. Bhagwati Devi was apprehensive that the first defendant would sell the property to fund his bad lifestyle. The second plaintiff, Murari Singh, was her brother; therefore, she approached Murari Singh to prevent the first defendant from selling the suit property. The second plaintiff, Murari Singh, brought his friend, the first plaintiff. Thereafter, the suit agreement was executed to deter the first defendant from selling the property. He submitted the specific contention that the suit agreement was a sham document which was not to be acted upon has been brushed aside by the three Courts. 9. He submitted that the first plaintiff filed the suit within a few days after the first defendant executed a sale deed on 12th December 1983 in favour of the second to fourth defendants. The learned senior counsel further submitted that the second to fourth defendants are bona-fide purchasers as the suit agreement is sham and bogus. He submitted that the defence that the plaintiffs were not ready and willing to perform their part of the suit agreement is also available to the defendants claiming to be subsequent purchasers through the vendor. The learned senior counsel relied upon a decision of 1 ILR (1936) 59 Mad 446 : 1935 SCC OnLine PC 68 2 [1980] 1 SCR 161 : (1979) 4 SCC 60 404 [2024] 7 S.C.R.