Section 101 of the Act provides for appeal against various s as provided therein. Sub-section (1) thereof provides that any person aggrieved by an made by the Committee or the Board under the Act may within 30 days from the date of such prefer an appeal to the Children’s Court, with an exception that against decision of the Committee relating to foster care and sponsorship care the appeal shall lie to the District Magistrate. The term ‘Committee’ has been defined in Section 2(22) of the Act to mean ‘Child Welfare Committee’ constituted under Section 27 thereof. The proviso to sub-section (1) of section 101 provides that the Court of Sessions or District Magistrate, as the case may be, may entertain [2024] 5 S.C.R. 805 Child in Conflict with Law Through his Mother v. The State of Karnataka and Another the appeal after expiry of the period of 30 days in case sufficient cause is shown for the delay in filing. 11.1 Sub-section (2) of Section 101 provides that an appeal against the passed by the Board after making preliminary assessment under Section 15 of the Act shall lie before the Court of Sessions. While deciding the appeal, the Court can take assistance of experienced psychologists and medical specialists, other than those whose assistance was taken by the Board while passing the impugned. It shows independent examination of the issue. Sub-section (4) provides that, no second appeal will be maintainable from the passed by the Court of Sessions. In Barun Chandra Thakur’s case (supra) the provisions have been held to be mandatory. 11.2 Some anomalies are evident in the aforesaid proviso, as pointed out by the learned counsel for the parties at the time of hearing. Their contention was that the anomalies should also be addressed, so as to streamline the procedure in future. We also think in the same direction, keeping in view the spirit of law. 11.3 The term Court of Sessions as such has not been defined in the Act. The trial of CCL, who is of the age of 16 years or above and is involved in a heinous offence is to be conducted by the Children’s Court, treating him as an adult. 11.4 ‘Children’s Court’ has been defined in the Act in Section 2(20) to mean the Court established under the 2005 Act or a Special Court established under the 2012 Act. Where such Courts are not existing, the Court of Sessions shall have jurisdiction to try the offence under the Act. Meaning thereby the Presiding Officer of the Children’s Court and the Court of Sessions have been put in same bracket. There is no doubt with the proposition that a Sessions Judge would include an Additional Sessions Judge as well. 11.5 Section 25 of the 2005 Act provides that for providing speedy trial of offences against children or violation of child rights, the State Government in concurrence with the Chief Justice of the High Court by notification specify at least a Court in the State or for each district a Court of Sessions to be a Children’s Court.