[Paras 40-49] Interpretation of statutes – Taxing statutes – Principle of interpretation – ‘Common parlance test’ : Held: Words therein must be construed in consonance with their commonly accepted meaning in the trade and their popular meaning – When a word is not explicitly defined or there is ambiguity as to its meaning, it must be interpreted for the purpose of classification in the popular sense, which is the sense attributed to it by those who are conversant with the subject matter that the statute is dealing with – This principle, known as the ‘common parlance test’, serves as good fiscal policy so as to not put people in doubt or quandary about their tax liability – Test is an extension of the general principle of interpretation of statutes for deciphering the mind of the law-maker but it is subject to certain exceptions- when there is an artificial definition or special meaning attached to the word in the statute itself, whereby the ordinary sense approach would not be applicable – Said test cannot be brought into play when there is no ambiguity and there is no difference in the clear heading in the First Schedule and the corresponding entry in the HSN. [Paras 35, 36] [2024] 12 S.C.R. 895 Commissioner of Central Excise, Salem v. M/s Madhan Agro Industries (India) Private Ltd. Central Excise Tariff Act, 1985 – Central Excise Tariffs – Interpretation of entries – Reliance on the Harmonized System of Nomenclature-HSN and the Explanatory Notes: Held: Once the Headings in the First Schedule to the Act of 1985 in perfect alignment with the corresponding entries in the HSN, the General/Explanatory Notes in the HSN would be applicable and cannot be ignored while classifying goods as per the headings in the First Schedule – If the headings/entries in the First Schedule to the Act of 1985 are different from the headings/entries in the HSN or if they are not fully aligned, reliance cannot be placed upon the HSN for the purpose of classifying those goods under the Act of 1985 – First Schedule to the Act of 1985 is based on the HSN, which is an internationally standardized system developed and maintained by the World Customs Organization for classifying products, and unless the intention to the contrary is found within the Act of 1985 itself, the HSN and the Explanatory Notes thereto, being the official interpretation of the Harmonized System at the international level, would be of binding guidance in understanding and giving effect to the headings in the First Schedule – It is only when a different intention is explicitly indicated in the Act of 1985 itself that the HSN would cease to be of guidance – Legislative intention to depart from the HSN must be clear and unambiguous. [Paras 16, 17, 34] Case Law Cited Commissioner of Customs and Central Excise, Amritsar (Punjab) v. D.L. Steels etc. [2022] 17 SCR 151 : 2022 SCC OnLine SC 863; Collector of Central Excise, Shillong v. Wood Craft Products Ltd. (1995) 3 SCC 454; O.K.