Notably, the CAS itself restricts the benefits flowing therefrom to persons who had completed eight years of service “after regular appointment” – this shows the clear- cut intent as to which of the two cadres were the subject-matter of those benefits. Thus, there was no ambiguity in the CAS per se. If the intention was that the benefits should go across the board to both cadres, then there was no requirement to restrict it to persons who had completed eight years of service after regular appointment. 23. Significantly, it is not in dispute that the re-designated Research Assistants/Assistant Professors (respondents) were never directly appointed as Lecturers/Assistant Professors. This Court in State of Maharashtra v Tara Ashwin Patel, (2016) 15 SCC 717 held: ‘9. We have, therefore, examined the present appeals on first principles. We find from a bare reading of the two Resolutions dated 25-10-1977 and 27-2-1989 that for the purposes of career advancement the appellants had upgraded the post of Demonstrator/Tutor to the post of Lecturer and it appears that the respondents were also getting wages for the period of upgradation i.e. from 1-7-1975 to 25-10-1977. However, for the purposes of 186 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports grant of senior scale and, subsequently, for the grant of selection grade, what was required in terms of the aforesaid resolutions was actual service or regular appointment in the post of Lecturer. Thus, the respondents did not have and they cannot get the benefit of the deemed status of upgradation from 1-7-1975 to 25-10-1977. The deemed status was apparently for the purposes of pay and other allowances and cannot be counted towards actual physical service rendered by the respondents in the post of Lecturer.’ (emphasis supplied) 24. Thus, on an overall circumspection of the facts and circumstances, it is clear that upon re-designation of the Research Assistants as Lecturers/Assistant Professors, they got what was due to them in the form of the same pay-scale as was applicable to the directly-recruited Lecturers, but once it came to the CAS, the CAS specifically envisaged that benefit thereunder was restricted to persons completing 8 years of service after regular appointment. Only by reason that the respondents were receiving the same pay-scale as the direct recruits, would not entitle them to get benefit of CAS as it was subject to fulfilment of certain conditions, including completion of certain years of service viz. 8 years. Till the time, the CAS as a scheme had not been interfered with, it was not proper for the learned Single Judge to interpret the same in a way which would obliterate the distinction between the two separate cadres. We may also add that had the intention been that everybody comes on the same platform and gets all subsequent benefits, there was no requirement of having/ maintaining two cadres. Further, there was no need for this Court to clarify that the re-designatees and direct appointees would have separate identities, if for all practical purposes, no distinction was to be made either on facts or in law.