2 and the consequential approval s passed by respondent No. 1 vide G.O.Rt. NOs. 1305 and 1306 dated 20.09.2023 respectively. Thus, the writ petitions fail and the same are liable to be dismissed.” 10. Thus, the plain reading of the aforesaid line of reasoning adopted by the High Court would indicate that as the appellant detenu had 1202 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports engaged himself in unlawful activities of serious nature he could be said to have acted in a manner prejudicial to the maintenance of public . The line of reasoning as above gives an impression that what weighed with the High Court are the allegations of chain snatching creating lot of fear and panic in the minds of the women folk. This according to the High Court was sufficient to reach to the conclusion that the alleged antisocial activities of the appellant detenu are prejudicial to the maintenance of the public . 11. In such circumstances referred to above, the appellant detenu is here before this Court with the present appeal. C. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE APPELLANTS 12. Mr. P. Mohith Rao, the learned counsel appearing for the appellant detenu made the following submissions: a. Mere registration of FIRs for the offences punishable under Chapter XVII of the Indian Penal Code (“IPC”) is not sufficient to label or brand any individual as a “GOONDA” as defined under Section 2(g) of the Act 1986. In other words, mere registration of the FIRs for the offences of theft, robbery etc. is not sufficient to arrive at the subjective satisfaction that the alleged activities of the appellant detenu are prejudicial to the maintenance of public . b. As per the explanation to Section 2(a) of the Act 1986, the activities in question must cause “harm, danger or alarm or a feeling of insecurity among the general public or any section thereof to be prejudicial to public ”. c. The criminal cases which have been registered against the appellant detenu involve the ordinary “law and ” problems or situations. The appellant detenu was granted bail in all the FIRs registered against him after giving an opportunity of hearing to the State. If it is the case of the State that the appellant detenu continued to indulge in the anti-social activities, the State ought to have approached the concerned court for cancellation of bail. Issuance of a preventive detention which drastically curtails the appellant’s right to liberty under Article 21 of the Constitution is certainly neither the most suitable nor the least restrictive method of preventing the appellant from engaging in any further criminal activities. [2024] 3 S.C.R. 1203 Nenavath Bujji Etc. v. The State of Telangana and Ors. d. The impugned of preventive detention suffers from the vice of total non-application of mind. The impugned of detention could be said to have been vitiated on account of the extraneous matters being considered by the Detaining Authority. In the impugned of detention the detaining authority has stated that the appellant detenu is a habitual offender as many FIRs have been registered against him, however, the Detaining Authority thought fit to take into consideration only two FIRs out of the four FIRs as the other two FIRs were registered outside the Commissionerate limits of the Detaining Authority.