The First Amendment was challenged before the Supreme Court in the famous Shankari Prasad Singh v. Union of India, AIR 1951 SC 458 where it was upheld. The powers of the Parliament under Article 368 of the Constitution of India of amending the Constitution were held to be plenary which could also amend the Fundamental Rights in the Constitution. Subsequently, decisions of High Courts on land legislations were challenged before this Court in State of Bihar v. Kameshwar Singh (1952) 1 SCC 528, but now Article 31A, Article 31B and the Ninth Schedule were there in the Constitution after getting approval of this Court in Shankari Prasad. 60 ParliaMentary deBates (Part ii- PrOceedinGs Other than QuestiOns and answers), Pgs. 8831-8832. 304 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Justice S.R Das in Kameshwar Singh underlined the importance of Articles 38 and 39 in bringing social, economic and political justice. He stated as under: “…Indeed, what sounded like idealistic slogans only in the recent past are now enshrined in the glorious Preamble to our Constitution proclaiming the solemn resolve of the people of this country to secure to all citizens justice, social, economic and political, and equality of status and of opportunity. What were regarded only yesterday, so to say, as fantastic formulae have now been accepted as directive principles of State policy prominently set out in Part IV of the Constitution. The ideal we have set before us in Article 38 is to evolve a State which must constantly strive to promote the welfare of the people by securing and making as effectively as it may be a social in which social, economic and political justice shall inform all the institutions of the national life. Under Article 39 the State is enjoined to direct its policy towards securing, inter alia, that the ownership and control of the material resources of the community are so distributed as to subserve the common good and that the operation of the economic system does not result in the concentration of wealth and means of production to the common detriment… what, I ask, is the purpose of the State in adopting measures for the acquisition of the zamindaries and the interests of the intermediaries? Surely, it is to subserve the common good by bringing the land, which feeds and sustains the community and also produces wealth by its forest, mineral and other resources, under State ownership or control. This State ownership or control over land is a necessary preliminary step towards the implementation of the directive principles of State policy and it cannot but be a public purpose… Further, it must always be borne in mind that the object of the impugned Act is not to authorise the stray acquisition of a particular property for a limited and narrow public purpose but that its purpose is to bring the bulk of the land producing wealth under State ownership or control by the abolition of the system of land tenure [2024] 11 S.C.R. 305 Property Owners Association & Ors.