Another question is whether Clause 3 can be independently interpreted to prescribe a date for the performance of contract. The consequence of the non-payment of the balance consideration in terms of Clause 3 is the forfeiture of the advance amount paid by the purchaser and not all the consideration paid by the end of three months. The consequence is not that the sale deed shall not be executed. 30. For the above reasons, Clauses 3, 21 and 23 cannot be interpreted to mean that a time is fixed for the execution of the sale agreements. Thus, the limitation is governed by the second part of Article 54. The limitation of three years prescribed by the second part of Article 54 runs from the date when the plaintiff has notice that performance has been refused. The petitioner/plaintiff had notice that performance is refused only by the reply dated 14 April 2000 to the first legal notice of the petitioner. A portion of the reply is extracted below: “That our client alongwith Smt. Kotta Sujatha Reddy have not received the alleged amount of Rs. 34,80,850/- as part sale consideration of the alleged agreement. That our client has no any liability to execute the sale deed in your clients favour on any account under the alleged agreement of sale deed 26.3.1997 or 27.3.1997. As such the execution of any sale deed in your client’s favour does not arise.” [2024] 11 S.C.R. 689 M/s Siddamsetty Infra Projects Pvt. Ltd. v. Katta Sujatha Reddy & Ors. 31. Thus, the limitation prescribed by Article 54 sets in from the date when the petitioner received the above reply refusing performance. Irrespective of whether the suit was instituted on 9 August 2002 (as concluded by the Trial Court) or 30 July 2002 (as concluded by the High Court), it was within limitation. F. Specific performance 32. The next issue is whether the petitioner is entitled to a decree for specific performance. This Court held that the 2008 amendment to Section 10 of the Specific Relief Act does not apply retrospectively and decided the matter based on Section 10 before the amendment. Section 10, before the amendment,conferred courts with the discretion to provide a decree for specific performance. In exercise of review jurisdiction, we must not disturb a finding unless there is an error apparent on the face of record. Even assuming that the grant of relief of specific performance continued to be discretionary to a suit instituted before the date of the amendment, we are of the opinion that this Court committed a grave error in its analysis of whether the Court ought to use its discretionary power in this matter. Section 10 of the Specific Relief Act before the 2018 amendment read as follows: “10. Cases in which specific performance of contract enforceable.- Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter, the specific performance of any contract may, in the discretion of the court, be enforced- (a) when there exists no standard for ascertaining actual damage caused by the non-performance of the act agreed to be done; or (b) when the act agreed to be done is such that compensation in money for its non-performance would not afford adequate relief.