When sufficient evidence is available to conclude that Shama was in no position to escape from the custody of the appellants, the inevitable corollary that follows is that he died due to their torture while in their custody. 16. It is high time that our legal system squarely faces the menace of police excesses and deals with it by putting in place an effective mechanism to obviate such inhuman practices. Long ago, Prof. Upendra Baxi had observed: “What is truly striking about India is the lack of respect for rule of law, not just by the people but those who make and enforce them”.5 A few years later, Prof. Srikrishna Deva Rao pointed out that excessive use of force is a product of the police culture that rationalizes physical abuse as appropriate punishment for persons who are viewed as trouble-makers or deviants. He asserted that lack of proper legal restraint on police powers is one of the main reasons for continuous police abuse and that torture by the police is violative of the right to life and personal liberty under Article 21 of the Constitution.6 17. In the words of Mohammed Ghouse: ‘Torture or killing of a person in police custody is, to put it mildly, illegal. But the real question is when gold rusts, what can iron do? Who can police the police? Because of the system of linkages, the accountability of police to the political process is purely notional. So, the question arises whether courts can police the police? It is unfortunate that the State has done little to reform the system to control such abuse of power by the police by institutionalizing a regime to detect, prosecute and punish wrongdoers within the police organization. The recommendation of the National Police Commission for a mandatory judicial inquiry by a District and Sessions Judge still remains on paper. Organizational accountability is perhaps the only means of ensuring that the rank and file within the police 5 Crisis of Indian Legal System (1982) 6 Custodial Deaths by P. Srikrishna Deva Rao (National Law School Journal. Vol. 6, 1994) [2024] 9 S.C.R. 761 Manik & Ors. v. The State of Maharashtra department respect and honour Constitutional values while discharging their functions and do not abuse the power that comes with it by resorting to third degree methods within the secrecy and safety of police lock-up’.7 18. In fact, in Ram Sagar Yadav (supra), this Court had suggested amendment of the law relating to burden of proof in case of custodial deaths. In response thereto, the Law Commission of India, in its 113th Report (1985) on ‘Injuries in Police Custody’, recommended insertion of Section 114-B in the Indian Evidence Act, 1872, so as to reverse the burden of proof in cases of custodial death onto the police themselves. Despite decades having passed since then, this recommendation has not come to fruition. 19. Irrespective of that step being taken, the fact remains that when sufficient evidence is adduced to prove custodial torture by the police, it is then for the police themselves to prove their innocence, be it in a case of death in police custody or even if such a victim goes missing or vanishes.