It is well to remember that the Code of Civil Procedure is a body of procedural law designed to facilitate justice and it should not be treated as an enactment providing for punishments and penalties. The laws of procedure should be so construed as to render justice wherever reasonably possible. It is in our opinion, not unreasonable to demand restitution from a person who has purchased 642 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the property in court auction being aware of the pending appeal against the decree.” 17. In the matter of Padanathil Rugmini Amma (supra), this Court while dealing with somewhat similar fact situation (as in the case in hand) wherein a decree holder himself became the auction purchaser and later on leased out the property to a third party who in turn sold to another one and then this man again sold out to a fourth person, held thus in paras 10, 11, 14, 15,16 and 17: “10. It is, however, contended by the respondent that he is a lessee from the decree-holder auction-purchaser. The appellant cannot seek restitution of properties leased to him by the decree-holder auction-purchaser. The lease in his favour is protected, he being a third party to the court proceedings and the auction sale. This contention has been upheld by the Kerala High Court and is challenged before us. Now, under Section 144 of the Civil Procedure Code where and insofar as a decree or an is varied or reversed or is set aside, the court which passed the decree or , shall, on the application of any party entitled to any benefit by way of restitution or otherwise, cause such restitution to be made as will, so far as may be, place the parties in the position which they would have occupied but for such decree or . For this purpose, the court may make such s including s for the refund of costs and for the payment of interest, damages, compensation and mesne profits, which are properly consequential on such variation, reversal, setting aside or modification of the decree or . 11. In the present case, as the ex parte decree was set aside, the -debtor was entitled to seek restitution of the property which had been sold in court auction in execution of the ex parte decree. There is no doubt that when the decree-holder himself is the auction- purchaser in a court auction sale held in execution of a decree which is subsequently set aside, restitution of the property can be ed in favour of the -debtor. The decree-holder auction-purchaser is bound to return the property. It is equally well settled that if at a court [2024] 6 S.C.R. 643 Bhikchand S/o Dhondiram Mutha (Deceased) Through Lrs. v. Shamabai Dhanraj Gugale (Deceased) Through Lrs. auction sale in execution of a decree, the properties are purchased by a bona fide purchaser who is a stranger to the court proceedings, the sale in his favour is protected and he cannot be asked to restitute the property to the -debtor if the decree is set aside.