A bare perusal of the aforesaid provisions reveals that power to verify the correctness/validation of the caste certificate issued by Competent Authority under Section 4 is vested with Scrutiny Committee constituted under Section 6. Section 7 further empowers the Scrutiny Committee with suo motu powers or otherwise to call for record and enquire into correctness of a caste certificate if it is of the opinion that such certificate was obtained fraudulently and also vests the Committee with the power to cancel and confiscate the certificate in question in accordance with law. Such of Scrutiny Committee as per sub clause (2) is said to be final and protected from any challenge before any authority except High Court under Article 226 of Constitution of India. Furthermore, Section 9 confers all powers on the Scrutiny Committee as exercised by Civil Court while trying a suit as per Civil Procedure Code, 1908. 11. In furtherance of the aforesaid 2000 Act, the State of Maharashtra further brought in force the ‘Maharashtra Scheduled Castes, De- [2024] 4 S.C.R. 137 Navneet Kaur Harbhajansing Kundles @ Navneet Kaur Ravi Rana v. State of Maharashtra and Other notified Tribes (Vimukta Jatis), Nomadic Tribes, Other Backward Classes and Special Backward Category (Regulation of Issuance and Verification of) Caste Certificate Rules, 2012’ (hereinafter referred to as ‘2012 Rules’), stipulating detailed provisions regarding procedure for constitution of Scrutiny Committee as well as the procedure to be followed by it while dealing with the claims seeking validation of caste certificate issued by Competent Authority. For the purpose of case at hand, Rule 13, Rule 14 and Rule 17 are relevant and thus are reproduced below for ready reference – Rule 13 – Report of Vigilance Cell and Issues to be dealt with. (1) Vigilance Cell Officer(s) shall submit report upon investigating into the Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Caste converts to Buddhism, De-notified Tribes (Vimukta Jatis), Nomadic Tribes, Other Backward Classes or Special Backward Category claim, referred to it, – (a) by visiting permanent place of residence and conducting domestic inquiry; or (b) by recording statements of respected and responsible persons from concerned area, including representatives of Local Self Government, Police Patil, etc. ; or (c) by collecting information, as part of recording statement, as regards to name, age, educational qualification, occupation, existing place of residence and information regarding properties (existing and disposed) of family members of applicant or claimant; or (d) by collecting information including the sociological, anthropological and ethnological (anthropological moorings and ethnological kinship), genetical traits of the Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Caste converts to Buddhism, De-notified Tribes (Vimukta Jatis), Nomadic Tribes, Other 138 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Backward Classes or Special Backward Category, if any; or (e) by personally visiting Office of the Competent Authority or revenue or school or other concerned offices. (2) Notwithstanding anything contained in any provision of these rules, – (a) the Vigilance Cell shall not record concluding remark or opinion, since vigilance inquiry is meant for internal assistance to the Scrutiny Committee and adjudication of Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Caste converts to Buddhism, De-notified Tribes (Vimukta Jatis), Nomadic Tribes, Other Backward Classes or Special Backward Category status is exclusive domain of the Scrutiny Committee; (b) finding recorded and opinion expressed, if any, by the Vigilance Officer shall not be binding on Scrutiny Committee nor could be used as evidence, in support of Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Caste converts to Buddhism, De-notified Tribes (Vimukta Jatis), Nomadic Tribes, Other Backward Classes or Special Backward Category claim.