366(28) – Government may demand payments in the nature of a price or consideration for parting with its exclusive privilege to carry on activities of a particular description which is neither a tax nor a fee. [Paras 102, 104, 105, 108, 109] Constitution of India – Entry 23 List II and Entry 54 List I – Inter- relationship between – “Regulation of mines” and “mineral development” – Meaning and explanation of: Held: (per Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI) (for himself and for Hrishikesh Roy, Abhay S Oka, J.B. Pardiwala, Manoj Misra, Ujjal Bhuyan, Satish Chandra Sharma and Augustine George Masih, JJ.) As regards, inter-relationship between Entry 54 List I and Entry 23 List II the State legislatures possess plenary legislative power in respect of regulation of mines and mineral development under Entry 23 List II; Entry 23 List II is, however, subject to the operation of Entry 54 List I; field under Entry 23 List II is subordinated to the extent to which Parliament has brought under its control the regulation of mines and development of minerals under the MMDR Act; expression of the legislative intention to cover a particular field [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1565 Mineral Area Development Authority & Anr. v. M/s Steel Authority of India & Anr. Etc. relating to mines and mineral development excludes or denudes the legislative powers of the State with respect to that particular field; and Parliamentary intention to cover a particular field relating to the regulation of mines and mineral development and the extent to which control of the Union is regarded to be in the public interest has to be ascertained from the language of the statute – Entry 54 List I and Entry 23 List II are general or regulatory entries dealing with the same subject matter, namely of “regulation of mines and mineral development” – By making Entry 23 List II subordinate to Entry 54 List I, Constitution tilts the balance of legislative powers with respect to the regulation of mines and mineral development in favor of the Union – Expression “regulation of mines” mean the management of both the process of extracting minerals as well the place where such minerals will be extracted from sub-surface levels – MMDR Act gives shape and meaning to the expression “regulation of mines and mineral development” through its provisions and the rules – Entry 54 List I and Entry 23 List II do not use the expression “minerals” simpliciter – Entries use the term “mineral development” – As a concept, mineral development is a term of wide import – It encompasses exploitation of minerals, reduction of wastage in the beneficiation process, regulation of mining activities for ecological and environmental factors and equitable distribution of mineral resources and mining leases – Expression “mineral development” has been understood under the MMDR Act in a comprehensive manner, to include all activities and transactions relating to the working of mines, extracting of minerals, their storage and disposal, as well as the conservation of the environment. [Paras 132, 137, 138, 140, 141, 163] Constitution of India – Entry 50 List II and Entry 54 List I – Inter-relationship between: Held: (per Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI) (for himself and for Hrishikesh Roy, Abhay S Oka, J.B. Pardiwala, Manoj Misra, Ujjal Bhuyan, Satish Chandra Sharma and Augustine George Masih, JJ.)