Confiscation itself was not justified. 24.3 Finally, it is contended that both the respondent as well as CESTAT had overlooked the fact that the goods in question were denied to the appellant for a long time. Therefore, a lenient view ought to have been taken. 25. Learned counsel for the respondent, on the other hand, submits that on the basis of reliable information received about suspected misuse of the warehousing facility by the appellant, officers of the Preventive Branch of the Collectorate of Central Excise and Customs, Indore had searched the premises of the appellant on 07.08.1992 and physically verified the stock. On verification, it was found that [2024] 3 S.C.R. 901 M/s. Bisco Limited v. Commissioner of Customs and Central Excise 304 cases were stocked inside the warehouse while 264 cases were found outside the warehouse but within the factory premises. Remaining 27 cases were found neither inside the warehouse nor within the factory premises. It was thereafter that action was taken under the relevant provisions of the Customs Act following which show cause notice was issued to the appellant. 25.1 Learned counsel has justified the ultimate adjudication as well as the impugned of the CESTAT confirming the said adjudication . 25.2 In such circumstances, he submits that there is no merit in the appeal and, therefore, the same should be dismissed. 26. Submissions made have been duly considered. 27. We may now refer to some of the relevant provisions of the Customs Act. Section 2(43) defines a ‘warehouse’ to mean a public warehouse licensed under Section 57 or a private warehouse licensed under Section 58 or a special warehouse licensed under Section 58A of the Customs Act. ‘Warehoused goods’ has been defined under Section 2(44) to mean goods deposited in a warehouse. 28. Section 12 of the Customs Act deals with dutiable goods. Sub- Section(1) thereof says that duties of customs shall be levied at such rates as may be specified under the Customs Tariff Act, 1975 on goods imported into or exported from India. 29. Date for determination of rate of duty and tariff valuation of imported goods is dealt with in Section 15. Sub-Section(1) of Section 15 says that the rate of duty and tariff valuation, if any, applicable to any imported goods shall be the rate and valuation in force- (a) in the case of goods entered for home consumption under Section 46, on the date on which a bill of entry in respect of such goods is presented under that section; (b) in the case of goods cleared from a warehouse under Section 68, on the date on which the goods are actually removed from the warehouse; (c) in the case of any other goods, on the date of payment of duty. 902 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 30. While Section 28 provides for recovery of duties not levied or short levied, Section 28AA deals with interest on delayed payment of duty. On the other hand, Section 28AB provided for interest on delayed payment of duty in special cases.