The recommendation made by the SNJPC for uniformity in the medial allowance payable to pensioners and family pensioners is wholesome and is consistent with Article 14. Of the Constitution. There is no valid basis to distinguish between pensioners and family pensioners for the payment of a fixed medical allowance. Moreover, an increase of Rs 1,000 per month for pensioners as compared to serving judicial officers is also justified considering the fact that the pensioners as a class would need more medical attention with advancing years. Medical Facilities and Reimbursement 58. The medical facilities to be provided to serving judicial officers, retired judicial officers and family pensioners differ from State to State. There are three broad models which are followed in the case of government servants: (a) Access to a health scheme like CGHS under which there are empaneled hospitals; (b) Access to government hospitals and thereafter upon following a procedure of reference; and (c) Cashless facilities pursuant to group insurance policies. 59. The FNJPC recommended that the judicial officers should also be given similar medical facilities as are being given to the members of the State legislature. It recommended that the State Government should notify the list of hospitals for medical treatment of judicial 362 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports officers and their families. A similar benefit was extended to retired judges. The FNJPC’s recommendations were accepted by this Court in All India Judges Association v Union of India14. 60. The JPC reiterated the recommendations of the FNJPC. Its recommendations were accepted in All India Judges Association v Union of India15. 61. While noting the varying practices which are followed across the country, the SNJPC observed that while the CGHS and DGEHS are working well, difficulties are faced by judicial officers in several States where there is neither a proper empanelment of doctors, hospitals and labs nor is there an effective procedure for reimbursement of medical bills. It specifically noted the case of the State of Maharashtra where the earlier s of this Court were not observed. The SNJPC further noted that in the absence of proper empanelment, referral by a Medical Officer of a government hospital is needed for treatment in private hospitals. The SNJPC has taken note of the grievance of the judicial officers while formulating its recommendations. The grievances which were projected by the judicial officers included the following: “1) Lack of adequate number of notified hospitals/pathological labs. 2) Non-availability of cashless treatment for in-hospital treatment even in case of serious ailments and emergency. 3) The Civil Surgeon or Directorate of Medical/Health services to whom the claims are referred to are enforcing unjustifiable cuts. 4) Delay in processing/passing the bills in case of high claims. 5) Insistence of Essentiality Certificate even for medicines purchased on the basis of the prescription issued by Registered Medical Practitioner or even the Consultant of the notified hospital. 14 (2002) 4 SCC 247 15 (2010) 14 SCC 720 [2024] 1 S.C.R. 363 All India Judges Association v. Union of India & Ors 6) Procedural problems being faced by the Judicial Officers who have settled down in other States after retirement.