Under that section where any person is in arrears of rent payable in respect of any public premises, the Estate Officer may, by , require that person to pay the same within such time and in such instalments as may be specified in the . While considering the meaning of the words “arrears of rent payable” this Court examined whether Section 7 creates a right to realise arrears of rent without any limitation of time. The Court observed that the word “payable” is somewhat indefinite in import and its meaning must be gathered from the context in which it occurs. In the context of recovery of arrears of rent under Section 7, this Court said that if the recovery is barred by the law of limitation, it is difficult to hold that the Estate Officer could still insist that the said amount was payable. When a duty is cast on an authority to determine the arrears of rent the determination must be in accordance with law. Section 7 only covers arrears not otherwise time-barred. 16. There is no question, however, in the present case of any payment voluntarily made by a debtor being adjusted by his creditor against a time-barred debt. The provisions in the present case are statutory provisions for coercive recovery of “amounts due”. Although the necessity of filing a suit by a creditor is avoided, the extent of the claim which is legally recoverable is not thereby enlarged. Under Section 70(2) of the Kerala Revenue Recovery Act the right of a debtor to file a suit for refund is expressly preserved. Instead of the bank or the financial institution [2024] 6 S.C.R. 255 K.P. Khemka & Anr. v. Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited & Ors. filing a suit which is defended by the debtor, the creditor first recovers and then defends his recovery in a suit filed by the debtor. The rights of the parties are not thereby enlarged. The process of recovery is different. An Act must expressly provide for such enlargement of claims which are legally recoverable, before it can be interpreted as extending to the recovery of those amounts which have ceased to be legally recoverable on the date when recovery proceedings are undertaken. Under the Kerala Revenue Recovery Act such a process of recovery would start with a written requisition issued in the prescribed form by the creditor to the Collector of the district as prescribed under Section 69(2) of the said Act. Therefore, all claims which are legally recoverable and are not time-barred on that date can be recovered under the Kerala Revenue Recovery Act.” (emphasis supplied) 23. In to arrive at the conclusion that the words ‘amounts due’ occurring in the Kerala Revenue Recovery Act would only include legally recoverable debts i.e. debts which are not time-barred, the Court in V.R. Kalliyanikutty (supra) relies upon three decisions. First is the decision of the Privy Council in Hansraj Gupta (supra), second is the decision of the this Court in New Delhi Municipal Committee vs. Kalu Ram, (1976) 3 SCC 407 and third, is the decision of this Court Deep Chand (supra).