The revision petition filed by the allottees was also dismissed by the Advisor, Chandigarh on the ground of gross delay. Hence, according to him, the High Court, in exercise of its jurisdiction under Article 226, should not have interfered with the said s passed by the statutory authorities. 8. He further submitted that the respondent(s) – M/s. Mohit Medicos alleging to be the tenant is the proxy litigant and had no locus standi to file the writ petition before the High Court, more particularly, when the said respondents had failed to produce any document to show any lease agreement between the original allottees and the said respondent(s) - tenant. 952 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 9. However, the learned senior counsel appearing for the respondent(s) – alleged tenant M/s. Mohit Medicos, placing reliance on the decision of Punjab and Haryana High Court, rendered by the Full Bench in Brij Mohan Vs. Chief Administrator and others,1 submitted that the expression “transferee” contained in clause (k) of Section 2 of the Capital of Punjab (Development and Regulation) Act, 1952 included the “lessee”, and therefore the respondent(s) – M/s. Mohit Medicos had the locus standi to file the writ petition before the High Court challenging the s passed by the statutory authorities, as well as the passed in the Public Premises (Eviction of Unauthorised Occupants) Act, 1971 (hereinafter referred to as the “Public Premises Act”). He fairly submitted that the said respondent(s) had not produced on record any document to show that that M/s. Mohit Medicos was the tenant of the allottees – Manjit Kumar Gulati and Ors. 10. At the outset, it may be noted that undisputedly the original allotment made in favour of the allottees – Manjit Kumar Gulati and Ors. was cancelled by the Assistant Estate Office vide the dated 20.11.1991 after affording sufficient opportunity of hearing to the allottees by issuing show cause notice dated 14.09.1990, however, the allottees had failed to clear the outstanding dues. In the appeal preferred by the said allottees, the Chief Administrator, Chandigarh, considering the submission made by the learned counsel for the allottees, had given the allottees last opportunity to liquidate their liability and retain the lease of the site in question by paying the entire amount of premium with interest etc., within 15 days from the date of the passing of the dated 12.10.1992. The respondents- allottees instead of complying with the said preferred a petition before the Advisor to the Administrator U.T., Chandigarh after a delay of about 5 and half years, which also came to dismissed by the Advisor, vide 07.04.1999 on the ground of being time barred. 11. Similar challenge made by the so-called tenant of the said allottees i.e., M/s. Mohit Medicos also came to be dismissed by the Advisor. Under the circumstances, despite sufficient opportunities of hearing given to the allottees to clear the outstanding dues, the respondents – allottees had failed to clear the same. Hence, the High Court had committed gross error in allowing the writ petitions by holding that 1 AIR 1980 P&H 236 [2024] 12 S.C.R.