A workable test, however, has been laid down in Holmes v. Russel (1841) 9 Dowl 487, wherein it was held thus: “It is difficult sometimes to distinguish between an irregularity and a nullity, but the safest rule to determine what is an irregularity and what is a nullity is to see whether the party can waive the objection; if he can waive it, it amounts to an irregularity; if he cannot, it is a nullity.” [see Dhirendra Nath v. Sudhir Chandra] (Emphasis supplied) 67. If we were to condone or overlook all the illegalities we have taken note of in para 63 of this , applying the provisions of XXI Rule 90 of the CPC, the same would result in nothing but gross travesty of justice. Bureaucracy feels that accountability is an impediment to efficient discharge of the duty. Accountability is no more and no less than, the concept of accountability of a private concern to their shareholders. There is a distinction between prying into details of day-to-day administration and of the legitimate actions or resultant consequences thereof. To enthuse efficiency into administration, a balance between accountability and autonomy of action should be carefully maintained. Over-emphasis on either would impinge upon public efficiency. But undermining the accountability would give immunity or carte blanche power to deal with the public property or of the debtor at whim or vagary. Whether the public [2024] 7 S.C.R. 527 M/s Al-Can Export Pvt. Ltd. v. Prestige H.M. Polycontainers Ltd. & Ors. authority acted bona fide would be gauged from the impugned action and attending circumstances. The authority should justify the action assailed on the touchstone of justness, fairness, reasonableness and as a reasonable prudent owner. Test of reasonableness is stricter. The public functionaries should be duty conscious rather than power charged. Its actions and decisions which touch the common man have to be tested on the touchstone of fairness and justice. That which is not fair and just is unreasonable. And what is unreasonable is arbitrary. An arbitrary action is ultra vires. It does not become bona fide and in good faith merely because no personal gain or benefit to the person exercising discretion has been established. An action is mala fide if it is contrary to the purpose for which it was authorised to be exercised. Dishonesty in discharge of duty vitiates the action without anything more. An action is bad even without proof of motive of dishonesty, if the authority is found to have acted contrary to reason. [See: Mahesh Chandra v. Regional Manager, U.P. Financial Corporation & Ors : (1993) 2 SCC 279] ii. Whether the Additional Commissioner, Konkan Division, Maharashtra had the jurisdiction to decide the two appeals filed by the respondent nos. 1 and 6 respectively under Section 247 of the Maharashtra Land Revenue Code, 1966? 68. We shall now proceed to deal with the contention canvassed on behalf of the appellant that the Additional Commissioner, Konkan Division, State of Maharashtra had no jurisdiction to adjudicate the two appeals filed by the respondent no.