Once the appellant is a (deemed) distribution licensee, certain benefits and/ or privileges do enure in its favour. 13 [1953] 1 SCR 773 : (1953) 1 SCC 425 754 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 21. The respondents have heavily relied on Sesa Sterlite Limited (supra) to assert that there has to be a harmonious construction of both the SEZ Act and the Electricity Act to give effect to the provisions of both the enactments, so long as they are not inconsistent with each other. 22. A Bench of two Hon’ble Judges of this Court in Sesa Sterlite Limited (supra) held: “43. The reading of Section 49 of the SEZ Act would reveal that the Central Government has got the authority to direct that any of the provisions of a Central Act and the rules and regulations made thereunder would not apply or to declare that some of the provisions of the Central Acts shall apply with exceptions, modifications and adaptation to the special economic zone. So, under the scheme of the Special Economic Zones Act, the Central Government has to first notify as to what extent the provision of the other Acts are to be made applicable or applicable with modification or not applicable for the special economic zone area. It is in furtherance thereto, the Government of India, Ministry of Commerce and Industry through its Notification dated 21-3-2012, with regard to power generation in special economic zone, has declared that all the provisions of the Electricity Act, 2003 and the Electricity Rules, 2005 shall be applicable to the generation, transmission and distribution of power, whether stand-alone or captive power. This notification would clarify that there is no inconsistency between the Special Economic Zones Act, 2005 and the Electricity Act, 2003. […] 46. To recapitulate briefly, in the present case no doubt by virtue of the status of a developer in the SEZ area, the appellant is also treated as deemed distribution licensee. However with this, it only gets exemption from specifically applying for licence under Section 14 of the Act.” 23. The question in Sesa Sterlite Limited (supra), was whether the appellant - a deemed distribution licensee, being a developer of Special Economic Zone (SEZ) and having a unit in the SEZ, is liable to pay Cross-Subsidy Surcharge (CSS). It was held that the appellant [2024] 5 S.C.R. 755 M/s Sundew Properties Limited v. Telangana State Electricity Regulatory Commission & Anr. would be liable to pay CSS for several reasons, including on the facts that it was using dedicated transmission lines belonging to the distribution licensee for the area in question. This Court interpreted the expression ‘open access’ and the rationale behind CSS and additional surcharge to observe that the former was payable by a distribution licensee and the latter was to meet the fixed cost of the distribution licensee of the area. The provision of open access, it is observed, balances the right of the consumers to purchase from a source of their choice. The rationale and the ratio of the decision, therefore, is that a deemed distribution licensee is treated at par and not different from a distribution licensee.