. . 2. An application to be excused from compliance with the requirements of any of the rules shall be addressed, in the first instance, to the Registrar, who shall take instructions ofthe Judge in Chambers thereon and communicate the same to the parties, but, if, in the opinion of the Registrar, it is desirable that the application should be dealt with in open Court, he may direct the applicant to serve the other party with a notice ofmotion returnable before the Court. . . .” 21. We are of the view that a curative petition arising from an dismissing a review petition upon hearing in open Court must contain a plea or prayer seeking excuse from compliance of making averment as contained in XLVIII Rule 2(1) of the 2013 Rules. The proper course for the Registry on receiving such a petition with a prayer to be excused from the above requirement would be to obtain instructions from the Judge in chambers and thereafter communicate such instructions to the parties. In the second part of Rule 2 it is provided that the Registrar herself can direct the applicant to serve the other party with a notice of motion returnable before the Court while she opines that it is desirable that the application should be dealt with in the open Court. The said part of the Rule would not apply in a case where the applicant seeking to invoke curative jurisdiction approaches this Court after the review petition is dismissed in open court hearing. The applicant for invoking curative jurisdiction, in such a situation, as we have already observed, must file an application praying to be excused from compliance with Rule 2(1) of XLVIII of the 2013 Rules and such application shall also contain a request [2024] 2 S.C.R. 775 M/S Brahmaputra Concrete Pipe Industries Etc. Etc. v. The Assam State Electricity Board and Others for the matter to be placed before the chamber judge for proper instructions. In other cases pertaining to curative petitions, in which the review plea is dismissed by circulation, the curative petition has to be circulated first to a Bench of three senior-most Judges of this Court and the Judges who passed the complained of, if available. Thereafter, the course prescribed in sub-clauses (2), (3) and (4) of Rule 4 of XLVIII of the 2013 Rules shall be followed as may be applicable. 22. So far the present appeal is concerned, this course was not followed when the was passed declining registration of the curative petition. This , in our opinion, is contrary to the provisions of the Rules and thus, we set aside the impugned . 23. We, however, do not consider it fit to remand the matter to the Registrar as the curative petitions were filed in the year 2020 and substantial time has lapsed since then. We have ourselves gone through the initial passed in the Special Leave Petition as also the of the Review Court. We have perused the curative petitions as well.