Where such notice period is not specifically provided, and the case does not fall within the exception noted in paras 2 and 3 below, a reasonable notice period of one week to 10 days may be read into the relevant statute. 2. Exception: It is also pertinent to note that this Hon’ble Court has itself, in dt. 17.09.2024, carved an exception in case of “unauthorised structure[s] in any public place such as a road, street, footpath, abutting railway line or any river body or water bodies and also to cases where there is an of demolition made by a Court of law.” Therefore, it is submitted that any guidelines/ SoP framed by this Hon’ble Court may not provide for notice in such cases, in case the relevant municipal law does not specifically provide for the same. Every municipal law also provides for situations where demolitions may be carried out without notice. For instance, Section 26C of the Uttar Pradesh Urban Planning and Development Act, 1973 states: 748 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “Section 26-C. Authority may without notice remove anything erected or deposited in contraventions of Act.- The Authority or an officer authorised by it in this behalf may, without notice, cause to be removed- (a) Any wall, fence, rail, post. Step, booth or other structure whether fixed or movable and whether of a permanent or temporary nature or any fixture which shall be erected, or set in or upon or over any street or upon or over any open channel, drain. well or tank contrary to the provisions of this Act. (b) Any stall, chair, bench, box, ladder, bale, board or shelf of any other thing whatever placed, deposited, projected, attached or suspended in, upon, from or to any place in contravention of this Act.” 3. It is submitted that a perusal of the Chart of demolitions submitted by the Petitioners (at pp. 28 – 32 of the Compilation of Suggestions submitted by the Ld. Nodal Senior Counsel), itself notes that the demolitions at S. nos. 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 10, 16, 22) were all of structures that amounted to illegal encroachment in public places, which itself has been carved out of this Hon’ble Court’s dt. 17.09.2024. Therefore, it is submitted that the SoP framed by this Hon’ble Court may not allow for notice in case of encroachment on public land, if the relevant municipal law allows for such demolition without notice. At best, the illegal encroachers on the said public land/public place, may be granted 48 hours to vacate such encroachment. This Hon’ble Court in the Delhi Ceiling cases (MC Mehta v. Union of India), has also endorsed a 48 hour notice period in certain cases. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 749 In Re: Directions in The Matter of Demolition of Structures 4. Manner of Service of Notice: It is submitted that most municipal laws provide for the manner of service of notice. For instance, Section 43 of the Uttar Pradesh Urban Planning and Development Act, 1973 provides for the service of notice, either to be handed over in person, or if such person cannot be found, then by affixation on some conspicuous part of his last known place of residence or business or on some conspicuous part of land or building to which it relates, or by registered post.