The said Court also convicted them for the offence under Section 201 of IPC and sentenced them to undergo imprisonment for a period of 2 years with payment of fine of Rs. 2000/- each, and in default thereof to further undergo imprisonment for a period of 3 months. Being aggrieved by the said and passed by the Trial Court, the appellants had preferred an appeal being Criminal Appeal No.148 of 2004 before the High Court, which came to be dismissed by the High Court vide the impugned and dated 29.08.2012. 4. The Trial Court acknowledged that the entire case of the prosecution was based on circumstantial evidence and further, that the entire chain of evidence consistently pointed in the direction of guilt of the appellants. It found that the testimonies of the witnesses were credible and the retraction of their statements by PW-3 and PW-4, sisters of appellant no. 1, was a result of tutoring. Thus, the statements of the said witnesses recorded under Section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 19732 were found to be truthful and natural. 5. The decision of the Trial Court was assailed before the High Court and the High Court, in the impugned /, found that the 1 Hereinafter referred as “IPC” 2 Hereinafter referred as “CrPC” 910 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Trial Court had correctly analyzed the evidence on record and no infirmity was found in the findings of the Trial Court. 6. While assailing the judgement of the High Court, learned counsel for the appellants submitted that there was a delay in the registration of FIR as the same was registered after 24 hours from the incident and the said period led to the fabrication of the entire story by the complainant. It is further submitted that there was no allegation of harassment at the time of registration of FIR and the versions put forth by PW-1, PW-2, PW-5 and PW-6 are inherently contradictory and there is no corroboration between the same. It is further submitted that PW-1 was not the real nephew of the deceased but was a distant relative belonging to the same community and therefore, he could not have possessed any direct knowledge of cruelty or harassment. It is further submitted that the statements of PW-1 and PW-5 appeared to be contrary to each other as PW-5 has not deposed regarding any bodily injury to the deceased at any point of time and has deposed that the relationship between the appellants and the deceased was cordial. 7. It is further submitted that the statements of PW-3 and PW-4 recorded under Section 164 CrPC are liable to be rejected as the said statements were recorded in the presence of the Investigating Officer under threat, and could not be considered as voluntary statements. It is further submitted that the said statements could not be termed as substantive evidence and could only be used to corroborate or contradict the testimony of a witness in the Court. It is further submitted that the primary witness of the prosecution is PW-7/doctor and his testimony is fundamentally flawed.