The right to payment can be legal, equitable, secured or unsecured. Therefore, if there is a liability or obligation in respect of a payment which is disputed, it still becomes a claim. Once there is a liability or obligation in respect of a claim, it becomes a debt. Once there is a financial debt, the person to whom a debt is owed, becomes a Financial Creditor. 49. The appellants are claiming that their case is covered by clause (i) of sub-section (8) of Section 5 of the IBC. Under clause (i), the amount of any liability in respect of any guarantee of the items referred to in clauses (a) to (h) becomes a financial debt. Therefore, when clause (i) of Section 5(8) is applicable, it is not necessary that the Financial Creditor actually tenders any amount to the Corporate Debtor. In this case, the appellants are claiming that the amount of liability covered by clause (i) is in respect of money borrowed by the RCom entities (excluding the Corporate Debtor) against payment of interest under the facility agreements. There is no dispute that facilities were granted by the appellants to RCom entities. The amount of any liability in respect of any of the guarantees for money borrowed against the payment of interest is a financial debt under Section 5(8) of the IBC. 50. “Guarantee” is defined under Section 126 of the Contract Act, which reads thus: “126. “Contract of guarantee”, “surety”, “principal debtor” and “creditor”.—A “contract of guarantee” is a contract to perform the promise, or discharge the liability, of a third person in case of his default. The person who gives the guarantee is called the “surety”; the person in respect of whose default the guarantee is given is called the “principal debtor”, and the person to whom the guarantee [2024] 12 S.C.R. 2065 China Development Bank v. Doha Bank Q.P.S.C. & Ors. is given is called the “creditor”. A guarantee may be either oral or written.” A contract becomes a guarantee when the contract is to perform the promise or discharge the liability of a third person in case of default. Thus, when a person enters into a contract to perform or discharge the liability of a third party, the contract becomes a contract of guarantee. 51. Section 127 of the Contract Act reads thus: “127. Consideration for guarantee.-Anything done, or any promise made, for the benefit of the principal debtor, may be a sufficient consideration to the surety for giving the guarantee. Hence, any promise made or anything done for the benefit of principal debtor may be sufficient consideration to the surety for giving guarantee. EFFECT OF CLAUSE 5(iii) OF DOH READ WITH MSTA Relevance of nomenclature of DoH 52. If we go by the title, DoH is a Document creating hypothecation. In short, hypothecation means the process of using an asset as collateral for a loan. It acts as a protection to the lender when the borrower does not repay the loan. 53. Only the title of a document cannot be a decisive factor in deciding the nature of the document or the transactions affected by the document.