There is the rule that ignorance of the law does not excuse, a maxim of very different scope and application.” It is, therefore, not possible to presume, in the absence of any material placed before the Court, that the. appellant had full knowledge of its right to exemption so as to warrant an inference that the appellant waived such right by addressing the letter dated June 25, 1970. We accordingly reject the plea of waiver raised on behalf of the State Government. (Emphasis supplied) 209. Thus, from the aforesaid, we are of the considered view that the reliance on the part of the accused on the two decisions of this Court in Chandi Kumar Das Karmarkar (supra) and Motilal Padampat Sugar Mills (supra) is completely misplaced. In Chandi Kumar Das Karmarkar (supra) the question before this Court was whether the accused therein due to the ignorance of law could be said to have a bona-fide belief of a right or claim to possession of the fish tank or in other words whether a plea of ignorance is a valid defence to any acts done pursuant to a bona-fide belief of existence of a right 282 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports under the mistaken notion of law. Whereas in Motilal Padampat Sugar Mills (supra) the issue for consideration before this Court was whether the appellant therein due to the ignorance of law could be said to have wilfully waived his right, or in other words whether a plea of ignorance is a valid defence to any promissory estoppel to a right. 210. Thus, both the aforesaid decisions in Chandi Kumar Das Karmarkar (supra) Motilal Padampat Sugar Mills (supra) are not applicable. We say so, because this Court in the aforesaid decisions has only gone so far as to say that a plea of ignorance of law can be used as a valid defence for either showing that the purported act was done or not done (as the case may be) due to a consequent bona-fide belief as to the existence of such a right or claim. In other words, a plea of ignorance of law can be a valid defence if it consequently gives rise to a legitimate and bona-fide mistake of fact as to the existence (or non-existence) of a particular right or claim. 211. This may be better understood through a four-prong test wherein for a valid defence, there must exist (1) an ignorance or unawareness of any law and (2) such ignorance or unawareness must give rise to a corresponding reasonable and legitimate right or claim (3) the existence of such right or claim must be believed bonafide and (4) the purported act sought to be punished must take place on the strength of such right or claim. It is only when all the four of the above conditions are fulfilled, that the person would be entitled to take a plea of ignorance of law as a defence from incurring any liability. 212. As held in Chandi Kumar Das Karmarkar (supra) a plea of ignorance of law is a valid defence only to the acts said to have been done on the basis of a right or a claim, the existence of which was bona-fidely believed or entertained on the basis of ignorance of law or mistaken notion of law.