375 Allarakha Habib Memon Etc. v. State of Gujarat of Mustkeem was not sufficient for test as the same had already disintegrated. At any rate, due to the reasons elaborated in the following paragraphs, the fact that the traces of blood found on the deceased matched those found on the recovered weapons cannot ipso facto enable us to arrive at the conclusion that the latter were used for the murder.” (emphasis supplied) 44. On a perusal of the deposition of the Investigating Officer (PW-18), we find his evidence on the aspect of disclosure statements made by the accused-appellant leading to the recoveries to be totally perfunctory and unacceptable. The witness did not elaborate upon the words spoken by the accused-appellant at the time of making the disclosure statements. 45. On a threadbare analysis of the entire record, we do not find that the prosecution examined any witness who had deposed about the link evidence/safe custody of the mudammal articles right from the time they were received at the police station and seized till the time the same reached the FSL. Hence, otherwise also, the FSL report (Exhibits 111-115) pales into insignificance. Investigating Officer (PW-18) deposed that he arrested the accused persons. A detailed enquiry was made from all three accused-appellants, and they were examined for the injuries found on their bodies. Thereafter, all the accused-appellants conveyed their willingness to show the place of the offence and thereafter, panchnama as per Section 27 of the Evidence Act was prepared. Since the place of incident was also known to police, this disclosure is irrelevant. Search of the houses of the accused-appellant was undertaken in presence of the panch witnesses and a big knife was seized from the house of the accused Mohmedfaruk @ Palak, vide panchnama (Exhibit-52). 46. Hence, we are of the firm view that neither the disclosure statements made by the accused were proved as per law nor the same resulted into any discovery which could be accepted as incriminating inasmuch as the requisite link evidence was never presented by the prosecution so as to establish that the recovered articles remained in the self-safe condition from the date of the seizure till the same reached the FSL. 47. By and large, this Court while exercising jurisdiction under Article 136 of the Constitution of India will not interfere with the concurrent 376 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports findings recorded by the courts below. But where the evidence has not been properly appreciated, material aspects have been ignored and the findings are perverse, this Court would certainly interfere with the findings of the courts below though concurrent. 48. Upon an overall appreciation of the evidence available on record, we are of the considered opinion that the prosecution has failed to lead convincing evidence establishing the guilt of the accused appellants beyond all manner of doubt so as to hold the accused appellants responsible for the crime. Hence, the conviction of the accused appellants as recorded by the trial Court and the sentences awarded to them vide and dated 13th October, 2014 and so also the dated 18th February, 2019 rendered by learned Division Bench of the High Court of Gujarat rejecting the appeals preferred by the accused appellants do not stand to scrutiny.