Though people of the community told the appellant and his family members to return the jewellery and also to marry the prosecutrix, they did not do so. Thereafter, appellant switched off his mobile phone and disappeared from Dabra. Brother of the appellant told the prosecutrix that if she complained before the police, she would be killed and that her brother would be implicated in a false case. It was thereafter that she lodged the FIR on 05.09.2018. 16. From a perusal and comparison of the two statements of the prosecutrix, one before the police under Section 161 Cr.P.C. and the other under Section 164 Cr.P.C., that too recorded within a span of 24 hours, what is noticeable is that not only are the statements contradictory in themselves, those are contradictory to each other as well. The fact that the appellant had lodged the FIR two years after the alleged incident is itself suggestive of the consensual nature of the relationship which had gone sour. It is inconceivable that the prosecutrix, who was about 22 years of age at the time of the alleged incident, would accompany the appellant to a temple if she was being threatened by the appellant. She was a major and, therefore, fully conscious of the consequences of her own actions. It is not the case of the prosecutrix that the appellant had forced her to have bath under the waterfall and thereafter took her photographs. The act of the prosecutrix having bath under the waterfall and changing her clothes thereafter in the company of the appellant virtually rules out any threat or coercion by the appellant on the prosecurtix. 17. In the course of the hearing, the Bench had put a pointed query to learned counsel for the State as to whether the mobile phone of the appellant or the photographs allegedly taken by the appellant of the prosecutrix while she was bathing and changing clothes were recovered to which the reply on instructions was that those were neither recovered nor seized. Further, the stamp paper dated 18 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 28.09.2016 as well as the cheque dated 16.06.2017 have not been seized. The jewellery allegedly given by the prosecutrix to the appellant has also not been seized. The stamp paper dated 07.07.2017 has not been seized. In the absence of such materials, it would be virtually impossible for the prosecution to prove the charges of rape and intimidation against the appellant. 18. We have carefully gone through the definition of rape provided under Section 375 IPC. We have also gone through the provisions of Section 376(2)(n) IPC, which deals with the offence of rape committed repeatedly on the same woman. Section 375 IPC defines ‘rape’ by a man if he does any of the acts in terms of clauses (a) to (d) under the seven descriptions mentioned therein. As per the second description, a man commits rape if he does any of the acts as mentioned in clauses (a) to (d) without the consent of the woman.