Contentions: 17. We have heard the counsels for the appearing parties and perused the record. 18. Learned counsel for the appellant-colleges contend that the seat which was directed to be kept vacant has gone waste since the Writ Petitions could not be disposed of before the cut-off date for admissions. They contend that the vacant seat would result in underutilization of resources, wastage of resources causing financial harm to them and resulting in meritorious candidates being denied the admission to that seat. Their prayer is that a compensatory additional seat be ed for the ensuing academic year. The authorities have contended that the authorities have no role in the matter and it was the of the court which has been duly carried out and no liability can be fastened on them. Question for consideration: 19. In the above background, the question that arises for consideration is, have the appellant-colleges made out a case for a direction to the respondent authorities to create a compensatory seat in the ensuing academic year? Reasons and analysis: 20. Firstly, the interim directing one seat in the counselling to be kept vacant (if available) in both these matters is a cryptic 708 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports where neither the prima facie case nor the balance of convenience and irreparable loss aspects have been discussed. This Court had time and again reiterated that in cases where the court is inclined to grant interim relief, at least a brief prima-facie assessment as to why the case warranted an interim protection needs to be discussed. Equally, the balance of convenience and the irreparable harm aspects are also to be briefly discussed in the . These are well settled principles for adjudication of interim reliefs. The High Court, in both the matters before us, has wholly ignored these principles. 21. Secondly, this Court has repeatedly held that a medical seat has life only in the year it falls due and that too only till the cut-off date fixed. Even here, there are stringent regulations of the National Medical Commission providing that admission can only be made by the medical colleges within the sanctioned capacity for which permission/ recognition has been granted. A seat falling vacant in a particular year cannot be carried forward or created in the succeeding year (See Faiza Choudhary v. State of J&K & Anr. (2012) 10 SCC 149). No doubt, in rare and exceptional circumstances, courts can direct increase in seats for the same academic year not exceeding one or two seats, if it finds that for no fault attributable to the candidate and for the fault on the part of the authorities, the candidate has suffered. This Court has also held that if in the same year, the candidate cannot be accommodated, the Court can mould the relief and direct the admission to be granted in the next academic year. In S. Krishna Sradha v. State of Andhra Pradesh & Ors. (2020) 17 SCC 465, it was held as under:- “13.2.