2 to life and liberty must be just and reasonable. 10. The Learned Senior Counsel, Mr. S.V. Raju also made elaborate submissions on behalf of the Respondent – ED which may be summarized as under: - i. Section 91 Cr.P.C. neither encompasses any territorial jurisdictional limit nor does it contain any proviso for women, minors or elderly akin to Section 160 Cr.P.C. A police officer has to resort to Section 91 Cr.P.C. to mandate the provision of any document. Hence, Section 91 Cr.P.C. cannot be equated with the powers under Section 50 of PMLA. 120 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports ii. Section 160 Cr.P.C. applies to a Police Officer who is making an investigation under Chapter XII of Cr.P.C., whereas the process envisaged by Section 50 of PMLA is in the nature of an inquiry and is not an Investigation in the strict sense of the term as held in case of Vijay Madanlal (supra). iii. ED has the power to summon any person whose attendance is considered necessary whether to give evidence or to produce any record as contemplated in Section 50 of the PMLA. A statement made under Section 50 is admissible in evidence, whereas the statement made under Section 161 is inadmissible as provided under Section 162 Cr.P.C. iv. There are stark inconsistencies between Section 50 PMLA and Section 160 Cr.P.C., and therefore Section 160 Cr.P.C would not apply to the proceedings under Section 50 of PMLA. v. The procedure to exercise power under Section 50 PMLA is laid down in the Rules called the Prevention of Money Laundering (Forms, Search and Seizure or Freezing and the Manner of Forwarding the Reasons and Material to the Adjudicating Authority, Impounding and Custody of Records and the Period of Retention) Rules, 2005. vi. The Appellant No. 1 had attempted to mislead the Court by suppressing the fact that he had residence in New Delhi also. vii. The statement made under Section 50 of PMLA would not infringe any fundamental right of the person contained in Article 20(3) inasmuch as the person making the statement is not an accused at the time when the statement under Section 50 is recorded. viii. As regards territorial jurisdiction, it is submitted in the alternative that as per the case of ED, the proceeds of crime to the tune of Rs. 168 Crores were transferred through vouchers to Delhi and Overseas, and therefore, there was adequate nexus with the territory of Delhi with the alleged offence. Even a prosecution complaint could have been filed in Delhi, which would be consistent with the law laid down by this Court in Rana Ayyub vs. Directorate of Enforcement.2 2 [2023] 3 SCR 892 : (2023) 4 SCC 357 [2024] 9 S.C.R. 121 Abhishek Banerjee & Anr. v. Directorate of Enforcement ix. The Regional Offices created in the Directorate of Enforcement are for administrative convenience and do not in any manner limit the scope of enquiry of those concerned offices or officers, if the offence of money laundering spreads over multiple States.