This is by giving effect to Article 31C, to the extent it was upheld in Kesavananda Bharati case. This represents a return to the Constitution’s original text, aligning with the basic structure of the Constitution. Consequently, invalidating Section 4 of the Forty-Second Amendment should automatically result in the restoration of the unamended Article 31C. I agree that Article 31C to the extent that it was upheld in Kesavananda Bharati remains in force. [Paras 3 and 23(a)] Held (per Sudhanshu Dhulia, J.) (Concurring): The unamended Article 31-C to the extent held valid in Kesavananda Bharati survives. [Para 2] B 1. Constitution of India – Art.39(b) – Whether the phrase ‘material resources of the community’ used in Art.39(b) includes privately owned resources – Held [per Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI (for himself and for Hrishikesh Roy, J. B. Pardiwala, Manoj Misra, Rajesh Bindal, Satish Chandra Sharma, and Augustine George Masih, JJ.)] (Majority opinion) – Theoretically, the answer is yes, the phrase may include privately owned resources – However, one cannot subscribe to the expansive view adopted in the minority judgement authored by Justice Krishna Iyer in Ranganatha Reddy case and subsequently relied upon in Sanjeev Coke case – Not every resource owned by an individual can be considered a ‘material resource of the community’ merely because it meets the qualifier of ‘material needs’ – The inquiry about whether the resource in question falls within the ambit of Art. 39(b) must be context-specific and subject to a non-exhaustive list of factors such as the nature of the resource and its characteristics; the impact of the resource on the well-being of the community; 6 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the scarcity of the resource; and the consequences of such a resource being concentrated in the hands of private players – Public Trust Doctrine evolved by Supreme Court may also help identify resources which fall within the ambit of the phrase “material resource of the community” – Held (per B.V. Nagarathna, J.) – Yes, privately owned resources except “personal effects” can come within the scope and ambit of the phrase “material resources of the community” provided such resources get transformed as “resources of the community” – Held (per Sudhanshu Dhulia, J.) (Dissenting) – The view of the learned Chief Justice in this case (i.e. the majority opinon) ultimately holds that not all privately owned resources are “material resources of the community” – Not only this it further limits the hands of the legislature to a non- exhaustive list of factors to determine which resources can be considered as “material resources” – There is no need for this pre-emptive determination – The definition of “material resources of the community” was purposely kept in generalized and broad-based terms – Privately owned resources are part of “material resources of the community” – Provisions in Article 39(b) & (c) have to be read in light of Art.38 of the Constitution – Once one does that, one cannot but give an expansive meaning to the phrase “material resources of the community”.