Thus, clause (b) of the said Article is a means to achieve an end in clause (c). Thus, both clauses (b) and (c) of Article 39 being complementary and supplementary to each other have been clearly envisaged in Article 31C of the Constitution and therefore any policy which is in the form of an enactment or a law or any action taken to further the goals of Article 39(b) and (c) cannot be assailed on the basis of grounds available under Articles 14 and 19. Thus, Article 31C provides that no such law giving effect to the policy of the State towards securing the principles specified in clauses (b) and (c) of Article 39 shall be deemed to be void on the ground that it is inconsistent with or takes away or abridges any of the rights conferred by Articles 14 and 19. 13.7 In Ranganatha Reddy, while upholding the legislation for nationalisation of contract carriages by the Karnataka State, it was observed by this Court speaking through Untwalia, J. that “to distribute” means “to allot, to divide into classes or into groups and “distribution” embraces arrangement, classification, placement, disposition, apportionment, the way in which items, a quantity or the like is divided or apportioned; the system of dispersing goods throughout a community”. Thus, nationalisation of transport is a distributive process for the good of the community where the State or its instrumentalities would take upon themselves to conduct the economic activity on nationalisation. 13.8 In Sanjeev Coke, a five-Judge Bench of this Court speaking through Chinnappa Reddy, J.held that the word “distribute” in Article 39(b) “is used in a wider sense so as to take in all manner and method of distribution such as distribution between regions, distribution between industries, distribution between classes and distribution between public, private and joint sectors. The distribution envisaged by Article 39(b) necessarily takes within its stride the transformation of wealth from private- ownership into public-ownership and is not confined to that which is already public owned” [2024] 11 S.C.R. 241 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. 13.9 Similarly, in Madhusudan Singh vs. Union of India, (1984) 2 SCC 381 (“Madhusudan Singh”) while upholding land reforms measures, this Court observed (in para 22) that the surplus agricultural lands from the landlords could be distributed amongst the poor suffering landless tillers of the soil who were at the mercy of the rich landlords or zamindars. Such land reforms legislations, therefore, were for securing and giving effect to objects of Article 39(b) clearly intending to distribute the material resources of the community, viz., the agricultural lands, to a large number of tillers of the soil in to serve the common good of the aforesaid people on such land vesting in the State by operation of law under various legislations. 13.10 In Natural Resources Allocation, auction was considered to be a manner of distribution of material resources of the community. This Court observed that the distribution of the “material resources of the community” must be for the “common good” which should be the sole guiding factor under Article 39(b) and the touchstone of testing whether any policy subserves the “common good”.