The report of this Expert Committee therefore was tailor-made and “suitable” in that GEAC could accord approval to the application submitted by CGMCP. As already [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2133 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. observed, the Expert Committee relied upon scientific evidence available globally and not based upon the agro-ecological realities in India. Therefore, not much credence can be given to the recognition of this Expert Committee which was the basis of the decision/recommendation dated 18.10.2022 made to MoEF&CC. 47.6 Next, I have perused the conditions imposed by GEAC while according approval to CGMCP, University of Delhi (South Campus), the applicant. It is apparent that the precautionary principle has been seriously undermined in Condition VI and VII that have been prescribed by GEAC for the impugned release. Although Condition VII prohibits farmers from using any formulation of herbicide in the fields, it is unclear how such a prohibition would be enforced. Given the nature of the DMH-11 which according to the petitioners has HT characteristics, the impact upon non-target organisms and beneficial organisms could be seriously detrimental to agrarian ecology. The proposed conditions for approval are neither adequate nor feasible to limit these consequences. I observe that GEAC has failed to take into consideration the precautionary principles while approving the environmental release of the transgenic mustard DMH-11 hybrid. 48. Wisdom lies in precaution. As the upholder and protector of constitutional wisdom and values, this Court has no option but to hold that the decision-making process for the grant of approval for the environmental release of DMH-11 has violated the precautionary principle. Reiterating Vellore Citizens and A.P. Pollution Control Board, this Court in RFSTE, noted that the position of the precautionary principle is well-entrenched in our jurisprudence and would govern the law of the land in light of Articles 47, 48A and 51A(g) of the Constitution. Thereafter, in T. N. Godavarman Thirumulpad vs. Union of India, (2006) 1 SCC 1, this Court applied the precautionary principle while directing that all precautionary measures must be taken when forest lands are diverted for non-forest use. 48.1 Karnataka Industrial Areas Development Board vs. C. Kenchappa, (2006) 6 SCC 371 (“C. Kenchappa”) is another case where this Court applied the precautionary principle to emphasize on the requirement of carrying on an impact 2134 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports assessment and obtaining necessary environmental clearance before execution of an industrial activity. It was directed that, in future, before acquisition of lands for development, the consequence and adverse impact of development on the environment must be properly comprehended and the lands be acquired for development so that they do not gravely impair the ecology and environment. 48.2 The precautionary principle was pressed into service in Democratic Youth Federation of India vs. Union of India (2011) 15 SCC 530 (“Democratic Youth Foundation of India”) to ban the use of the endosulfan pesticide until a court- appointed committee conducted a risk assessment of the same. It was also applied in Hospitality Association of Mudumalai vs.