The s made by the Hon’ble Apex Court are, therefore not applicable in the present cases. 11. From the discussion above, it is held that the appellants/ OP-2 and 3 landowners cannot be allowed to escape their 852 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports responsibility/role in the matter of providing relief to the complainants/consumers in terms of the impugned passed by the State Commission. It is held, therefore, that the impugned does not suffer from any illegality, irregularity or jurisdictional error of any kind and the same is upheld. The present appeals are ed to be dismissed in limine.” 6. It is vehemently submitted by the learned Senior counsel – Mr. Kailash Vasdev that the appellants had already revoked the Power of Attorney executed by them in favour of Respondent No.2, by the letter of revocation dated 12-8-2014, coupled with Public Notice of the same date and hence the appellants could not be held liable for any act done by Respondent No.2, who had allegedly entered into agreements with the complainants. He also submitted that the Complaints as such are not maintainable under the Consumer Protection Act against the appellants, who were not privy to the agreement between the Respondent No.2 and the complainants. However, the learned Senior counsel – Mr. Siddhartha Dave for the Respondent No.2 submitted that the said respondent is still ready to honour the JVA entered into by the appellants and Respondent No.2 and ready to complete the construction work with the cooperation of the appellants. He further submitted that the Irrevocable Power of Attorney was executed by the appellants in favour of Respondent No.2 after receiving consideration of Rs.1.51 Crores, pursuant to which, the Respondent No.2 had entered into the agreement with the complainants. 7. The learned Senior counsel – Mr. Gopal Sankaranarayan drawing the attention of the Court to the alleged letter of revocation dated 12-8- 2014, submitted that even as per the said letter, the appellants had stated that they could not be liable for the acts of the Respondent No.2 “henceforth” meaning thereby after the said letter, however, the Respondent No.2 had entered into the agreement with the complainants i.e consumers prior to the said letter and pursuant to the JAV executed between the appellants and Respondent No.2, which has not been cancelled so far. 8. Having regard to the submissions made by the learned Senior counsels for the parties, and to the impugned s and s passed by the `State Commission’ as well as the `NCRDC’, it [2024] 8 S.C.R. 853 Akshay & Anr. v. Aditya & Ors. clearly transpires that undisputedly an irrevocable power of attorney dated 6-7-2013 was executed by the appellants in favour of the Respondent No.2 along the JAV of the same date, pursuant to which the Respondent No.2 had undertaken to develop the land in question. It further appears that though allegedly the said power of attorney was revoked by the appellants vide the letter dated 12-8-2014, the JAV has not been revoked so far and the same still continues to be in force.