All the more so, when the issue of delay was never raised by them in Revision Application No. 61 of 2017 and was raised for the very first time only in the writ petition filed against the passed therein. 21. Further, what is of greater import is as to what would be the consequence of a Change Report being submitted belatedly. In the event a new Vahiwatdar takes over a Trust and, be it for whatever reason, he fails to submit a Change Report within the stipulated period of 90 days, what would be the fallout thereof? The provisions of the Act of 1950 do not contemplate automatic invalidation of his assumption of office as the Vahiwatdar of the Trust in such a situation. Once a Trust is registered as a Public Trust under Section 18 of the Act of 1950, it becomes the statutory duty of the authorities concerned to maintain proper records in relation to such Trust, including the particulars of its Administrators and Trustees. The Change Report in that regard has to be filed before the authorities concerned to facilitate timely updating of records after hearing all the parties concerned, as the statute provides for objections being raised against a Change Report. Delay or failure in doing so would mean that the records would not stand updated promptly. Objectors to the changes in the Trust, if any, can always take recourse to the remedies provided under the Act of 1950, complaining of the failure or 72 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports delay in the filing of a Change Report and the adverse consequences of such changes, if any. 22. Notably, as per the statutory scheme, failure to file Change Reports would invite penal consequences under Section 66 of the Act of 1950, which provides that whoever contravenes Section 22 and fails to report a change would be liable to pay a fine of ₹10,000/-. Continued failure to do so may invite more adverse consequences, as provided in the Act of 1950, but such consequences would flow from the s passed by the authorities concerned under the relevant provisions and would not stem from such failure automatically. Therefore, when failure to file a Change Report would not be fatal in itself, the delay in filing a Change Report cannot automatically impact the assumption of office by a Vahiwatdar of a Trust. The very fact that a proviso was added in Section 22(1) of the Act of 1950, enabling the authority concerned to condone the delay in the filing of the Change Report, if sufficient cause is made out, clearly indicates that such delay is curable and the delay in filing a Change Report would not, by itself, entail non-acceptance or nullification of the changes in the Trust which are sought to be informed to the authorities with delay. In Esha Bhattacharjee vs. Managing Committee of Raghunathpur Nafar Academy and others3, this Court observed that there should be a liberal, pragmatic, justice-oriented, non-pedantic approach while dealing with an application for condonation of delay as Courts are not supposed to legalize injustice but are obliged to remove injustice.