Digital Supreme Court Reports that it is below the dignity to interact or touch persons of certain castes. He observed that the difference in the rigidity with which untouchability is practiced does not eliminate the notion of such a practice.194 This indicates that the depressed classes were identified based on the notion of untouchability and not in the literal sense of the term. The effect of adopting the notional and not the literal test is that the social condition of all the castes included within the depressed classes is not uniform. Though the Government of India (Scheduled Castes) 1936 did not exactly correspond to the List published by Hutton or the Provincial Franchise Committees, the inclusions and exclusions to the list broadly matched.195 138. The heterogeneity within the class is also evident from the Constitution (Scheduled Castes) 1950 where certain castes are notified as the Scheduled Castes in specific localities. For example, in the State of Madhya Pradesh, of the twenty-five castes, only nine are Scheduled Castes throughout the State. The criteria used to identify the Scheduled Castes itself indicates that the endeavor was not to include all castes that suffered from identical forms of untouchability. Thus, the Scheduled Castes are not a homogenous class. b. Empirical evidence of heterogeneity 139. Field researchers have also accounted that the Scheduled Castes are not one homogenous class. Studies indicate that certain castes of the Scheduled Castes are not only sociologically backward vis- à-vis the forward castes but also amongst the Scheduled Castes themselves. AM Shah recounts that there was much less interaction between two Dalit castes in Gujarat than there was between a Dalit caste and a forward class. The author observes that the priests for the Dalits are placed high amongst the Dalit castes and the scavengers are placed the lowest, with the leather-workers and the rope makers occupying the intermediary positions:196 “Briefly, the Dalits have reproduced among themselves a hierarchy on the model of caste hierarchy in general. 194 Dr Ambedkar, Note on the Depressed Classes, Report of the Franchise Committee, 211 195 Galanter, supra, 130 196 AM Shah, The ‘Dalit” category and its Differentiation; Also see AM Shah, Untouchability, the Untouchables and Social Change in Gujarat in Dimensions of Social Life, Essays in Honor of David G Mandelbaum (edited by Paul Hockings) [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1411 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. There is at the top a small caste of garodas (derived from the Sanskrit word ‘guru’), who are priests for other dalit castes, […] Similarly, just as there are castes of bards for the upper castes, there is a bardic caste of dalit mendicants called dhed bava or sadhu. The garudas, turi barots, and dhed sadhus are accorded certain sacredness. The bhangis (scavengers) are the bottom of the hierarchy and the most under-privileged. Between the garodas and bhangis there is a large caste, the higher stratum of which is traditionally vankar (weavers) and the lower stratum dhed (menial servants). […] The chamars (leatherworkers) and senwas (rope-makers) occupy positions intermediately between the vankar-cum-dheds and bhangis.