Ld. PP in charge is present Ld. Advocate for the accused files a fresh vakalatnama. Seen the same. Let it be kept with the record. IO is present along with CD. Accused person namely, Joyeeta Das is produced from police custody. Today one remand application was filed by the Assistant Commissioner of Police. STF, Kolkata and prayed for further police custody for further development of the investigation. This Court finds that for effective investigation, the accused be remanded to police custody till 11.04.2022. The investigation Agency is directed to maintain all the formalities as per guidelines of Supreme Court while keeping the accused in the custody in remand. The accused is at liberty to report before the Ld. Court of CMM, Calcutta on the next date whether she has been physically or mentally tortured by the Investigation Agency while she was in custody. [2024] 4 S.C.R. 647 The State of West Bengal v. Jayeeta Das Now the application for adding the sections 16/18/18B/20/38/39 of the UA(P) Act is taken up for hearing. Perused the record and application as well as case diary. It is revealed from the CD that several incriminating documents, literatures, posters etc. related to the organizational agenda of the banned organization, CPI (Maoist) propagating for armed revolution in India to overawe the established democratically elected Government in the Country were recovered from the accused person relating to Terrorists Act against the Government. As per the passed by Hon’ble Justice Dr. Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud (Supreme Court) in connection with Criminal Appeal No. 1165 of 2021 the CJM Court of Sessions Court is the trial Court for the offences punishable under section UA(P) Act when no special Court has been notified by the State Government as per Section 27 of the NIA Act. If that be the so then, any offence where UA(P) Act is involved, the CMM, Calcutta, herein is the remand Court and the Chief Judge, City Sessions Court, Calcutta is the Trial Court as no special court has been notified by the State Government for the jurisdiction of Calcutta as per Section 27 of the NIA Act. Any accused being arrested by the State Police, having UA(P) Act be produced before the Court of Ld. CMM, Calcutta unless and until charge sheet is submitted and once the charge sheet is submitted, the Ld. CMM. Calcutta is duty bound to place the case record along with the accused person before this Court. If an accused is arrested in other sections and during investigation if the Investigation Agency wants to add the sections of UA(P) Act, only permission is required from the Sessions Court and after obtaining 648 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports permission, the CMM, Calcutta or the CJM of any district has the power to allow the Investigation Agency for adding sections of UA(P) Act. If the Investigation Agency prays for extension of time for filing charge sheet beyond statutory period of 90 days, where UA(P) Act has either been added or initiated, permission is required from the Sessions Court.