For example, if even in the lower post the junior Government employee draws from time to time a higher rate of pay than the senior by virtue of fixation of pay under the normal rules or by grant of advance increment(s) for any reason, these provisions shall not be applicable to step up the pay of the senior Government employee. vi. the pay of the senior Government employee so increased due to stepping up of pay shall not be reduced on reversion of the junior Government employee nor shall it be increased again with reference to the pay of the same officer. (2) After the re-fixation of pay of the senior Government employee with reference to the pay of his junior, the next increment shall occur to him only after he has rendered the qualifying service which is necessary for drawing such increment from the stage at which his pay had been refixed.” ANALYSIS – 31. A bare reading of the above provision makes it clear that a strict compliance of the said rule is necessary. The Rule of stepping up shall apply only if the conditions specified therein are fulfilled. Specifically, condition no. (v) of Rule 21 stipulates that the anomaly must be the direct result of the application of this rule. It further states by way of an example that, if even in the lower post the junior Government employee draws from time to time the higher rate of pay than the senior by way of fixation of the pay under the normal rule or by grant of advance increments for any reasons, the same shall not be applicable to step up the pay of the senior Government employee. 32. It is to be noted that in the present case, the anomaly in pay is not a direct result of Rule 21. Rather, the alleged anomaly arose because the 85 Assistant Professors [1984-95 Group] have been granted the benefit of Senior Scale/Selection Grade Pay by taking into account the ad hoc services that they have rendered in the past. Therefore, Rule 21 becomes inapplicable in the present case. 33. Moreover, if the present appeals are allowed, then it would amount to giving benefit to the appellants and others of the earlier years, during which admittedly they were not even born in the cadre and not [2024] 8 S.C.R. 483 Maheshkumar Chandulal Patel & Anr. v. The State of Gujarat & Ors. even serving. This would go against the principle of equity. Such a benefit cannot be claimed by the Petitioners for the years of service that they have not actually rendered. 34. The case laws cited by the Appellants are not applicable to the instant case as they are distinguishable on facts. More specifically, Madhava Murthy (supra), it was a case where a junior was drawing more pay on account of upgradation under the ACP Scheme and there was an anomaly and therefore, the pay of senior was required to be stepped up. However, the said junior had not rendered any ad hoc services, which is not quite the case at hand.