It was in the above background that this Court considered the question whether or not the power of the State to levy tax on the sale or purchase of goods falling under Entry 54 of List II would comprehend industrial alcohol. This was because the taxing power under Entry 54 of List II was subject to taxing power of the Parliament under Entry 92-A of List I. Therefore, it was observed that the provisions in question by which sales tax could be levied within the scope and ambit of Entry 54 List II was contrary to what had been stated (in paragraph 86) by the seven-judge bench decision between the same parties. It was observed that the aforesaid decision of this Court was not an authority for the proposition canvassed by the assessee in challenging the provision. This Court could not have intended to say that the Price Control s made by the Central Government under the IDR Act imposed a fetter on the legislative power of the State under Entry 54 of List II to levy taxes on the sale or purchase of goods. The reference to sales tax in paragraph 86 of that was merely accidental or per incuriam and therefore, had no effect. In the earlier litigation of Synthetics and Chemicals Ltd., the question was whether the State Legislature could levy vend fee or excise duty on industrial alcohol. The seven-Judge Bench answered in the negative as industrial alcohol being unfit for human consumption, the State legislature was incompetent to levy any duty of excise either under Entry 51 or Entry 8 of List II of the Seventh Schedule. [2024] 1 S.C.R. 867 Bilkis Yakub Rasool v. Union of India & Others While doing so, the Bench recorded the above conclusion. It was not preceded by any discussion. No reason or rationale could be found in the . Therefore, it was held by the two-Judge Bench that the same was per incuriam and was liable to be ignored in a subsequent matter between the same parties. The courts have taken recourse to this principle for relieving from injustice being perpetrated by unjust precedents. It was observed that uniformity and consistency are core of judicial discipline. But, if a decision proceeds contrary to the law declared, it cannot be a binding precedent. It was further observed that the seven-Judge Bench in Synthetics and Chemicals Ltd. did not discuss the matter and had observed that the State cannot levy sales tax on industrial alcohol. In the subsequent matter which arose from the High Court between the same parties, it was held by this Court that the conclusion of law by the Constitution Bench that no sales or purchase tax could be levied on industrial alcohol was per incuriam and also covered by the rule of sub-silentio and therefore, was not a binding authority or precedent. Thus, although it is the ratio decidendi which is a precedent and not the final in the , however, there are certain exceptions to the rule of precedents which are expressed by the doctrines of per incurium and sub silentio.