Digital Supreme Court Reports 21. By virtue of Section 31, the provisions of the Madhya Pradesh General Clauses Act, 1957 are made applicable to the construction of rules. By such application, the principle of a repeal of a provision not affecting any liability incurred thereunder is also extended to the operation of the subordinate legislations under the Act. It is, therefore, submitted that having incurred the liability of exceeding the prescribed limits of losses of liquor for the license period 2009- 10, the liability is not affected by the subsequent substitution of Rule 19. 22. This submission was not raised before the Single Judge or the Division Bench. However, as law operates irrespective of the choices of parties or their counsels in raising and referring to it in a court of law, we have permitted him to argue this question of law. We will now examine the application of Section 31 and its operation. 23. Section 31 of the M.P. General Clauses Act, 1957, relating to extension of its provisions to subordinate legislation is thus, distinct and more ambitious than that of its big sister, the General Clauses Act, 1897, the Central Legislation which extends its provisions to Ordinances and Regulations which are in the nature of legislation.22 Conscious of the big leap to extend the M.P. General Clauses Act, 1957, for construction of subordinate legislations, Section 31 takes care to provide that it may be done only when it is not repugnant to the subject and context. In its own words – unless there is anything g repugnant in the subject and context. 24. Interpretation statutes such as the General Clauses Act, 1897, are enactments intended to set standards in construction of statutes. The expression construction is of seminal importance as it is oriented towards enabling a seeker of the text of a statute to understand the true meaning of the words and their intendment. Apart from setting coherent and consistent methods of understanding enactments, the interpretation statutes also subserve the purpose of reducing prolixity of legislations. The standard principles formulated in the interpretation statutes must, therefore, be read into any and every enactment falling for consideration. 22 Thus, this Court has held in a number of cases that the General Clauses Act, 1897 is only applicable to statutes. [2024] 4 S.C.R. 681 Pernod Ricard India (P) Ltd. v. The State of Madhya Pradesh & Ors. 25. In Pushpa Devi v. Milkhi Ram23 while explaining the purpose and object of prefacing a definition or an interpretation with the phrase- “unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context”- this court held :- “19. The opening sentence in the definition of the section states “unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context”. In view of this qualification, the court has not only to look at the words but also to examine the context and collocation in the light of the object of the Act and the purpose for which a particular provision was made by the legislature.