The reliefs asked for in this application do not refer to any clarification. We have referred to the substance of the reliefs prayed for in this application earlier in this . 10. XII Rule 3 of the Supreme Court Rules, 2013 (“2013 Rules”) framed in pursuance of Article 145 of the Constitution of India, stipulates:- “3. Subject to the provisions contained in XLVII of these rules, a pronounced by the Court or by a majority of the Court or by a dissenting Judge in open Court shall not afterwards be altered or added to, save for the purpose of correcting a clerical or arithmetical mistake or an error arising from any accidental slip or omission.” There are, however, two chapters in the 2013 Rules which permit review of a or of this Court, being XLVII and XLVIII. The former , contained in Part IV of the 2013 Rules relates to “Review of a ” and the latter relates to “Curative Petition”. There is no other provision in the 2013 Rules, whereby a litigant can apply for modification of a or an of this Court in a matter which stands finally concluded. On rare occasions, a litigant may apply for clarification of an if the same is ex-facie incomprehensible, but we do not expect any or to bear such a character. So far as the applicant is concerned, it did not apply for review of the delivered by the three-Judge Bench. Neither in the contempt action initiated by the applicant, did this Court find that any case of willful disobedience of the of the three-Judge Bench was made out on the question of LPS. [2024] 3 S.C.R. 1037 Jaipur Vidyut Vitran Nigam Ltd. & Ors. v. Adani Power Rajasthan Ltd. & Anr. This would be apparent from the s passed by this Court in the contempt petitions which have been reproduced earlier in this judgement. The of the three-Judge Bench has already examined the question of LPS and by taking out a Miscellaneous Application, the applicant cannot ask for reliefs which were not granted in the main itself. 11. In the case of Ghanashyam Mishra & Sons Private Limited -vs- Edelweiss Asset Reconstruction Company Limited [M.A. No. 1166 of 2021 in CA No. 8129 of 2019], a two-Judge Bench of this Court in its delivered on 17th August 2022 observed and held:- “4. Having heard learned senior counsel for the parties and having perused the relevant materials placed on record, we are of the considered view that the present applications are nothing else but an attempt to seek review of the and passed by this Court on 13th April 2021 under the garb of miscellaneous application. 5. We find that there is a growing tendency of indirectly seeking review of the s of this Court by filing applications either seeking modifications or clarifications of the s passed by this Court. 6. In our view, such applications are a total abuse of process of law. The valuable time of Court is spent in deciding such application which time would otherwise be utilized for attending litigations of the litigants who are waiting in the corridors of justice for decades together.” (emphasis supplied) 12.