Had it been a case at the threshold, we would have outrightly turned down the respondent’s prayer. However, keeping in mind the length of the period spent by him in custody and the unlikelihood of the trial being completed anytime soon, the High Court appears to have been left with no other option except to grant bail. An attempt has been made to strike a balance between the appellant’s right to lead evidence of its choice and establish the charges beyond any doubt and simultaneously the respondent’s rights guaranteed under Part III of our Constitution have been well protected. 19. Yet another reason which persuades us to enlarge the respondent on bail is that Section 43-D(5) of the UAPA is comparatively less stringent than Section 37 of the NDPS Act. Unlike the NDPS Act where the competent court needs to be satisfied that prima-facie the accused is not guilty and that he is unlikely to commit another offence while on bail; there is no such precondition under UAPA. Instead, Section 43-D(5) of the UAPA merely provides another possible ground for the competent court to refuse bail, in addition to the well-settled considerations like gravity of the offence, possibility of tampering with evidence, influencing the witnesses or chance of the accused evading the trial by absconsion, etc. 29.1. Declining to interfering with the of the High Court, this Court in K.A. Najeeb (supra) dismissed the appeal of the Union of India. 30. Recently, this Court dealt with a matter where the appellant, a foreign national, is being prosecuted for offences punishable under Sections [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1067 Sheikh Javed Iqbal @ Ashfaq Ansari @ Javed Ansari v. State of Uttar Pradesh 8, 22, 23 and 29 of the NDPS Act. The appellant was arrested on 21.05.2014. The High Court had granted bail to the appellant vide the dated 31.05.2022 but had incorporated certain conditions in the bail because of which the appellant remained in custody despite having a bail in his favour. One of the conditions was that the appellant, a Nigerian national, should obtain a certificate of assurance from the High Commission of Nigeria to the effect that the appellant would not leave the country and would appear before the trial court on the dates fixed. Another condition imposed was that the accused should drop a pin on the google map to ensure that his location is available to the investigation officer at all times. This Court as an interim measure had granted bail to the accused- appellant and thereafter passed a detailed in Frank Vitus Vs. Narcotics Control Bureau, Criminal Appeal No. 2814-15 of 2024, decided on 08.07.2024. This Court after referring to earlier decisions of this Court held that conditions of bail cannot be arbitrary and fanciful. The expression ‘interest of justice’ finding place in Section 437(3) Cr.P.C. means only good administration of justice or advancing the trial process. It cannot be given any further broader meaning to curtail the liberty of an accused granted bail. Courts cannot impose freakish conditions while granting bail.