(iv) Such trials are also necessary to collect the agronomic and ecological data required to complete the environment safety assessment of genetically modified plant.” iii. The views of Dr. P.M. Bhargava were taken by the Committee and his stand was not a permanent ban on release of GMOs but ensuring that they are adequately tested before any such release take place. At the same time he stated that the refusal to do chronic toxicity studies was against the interest of the nation and that despite the technological advancements, there is not an Indian lab in which testing can be done. iv. It was noted that the GEAC does not directly perform studies of safety assessment and it is the applicant who is to submit data of its studies to the RCGM and GEAC, and after comments thereon final decision is taken. 1918 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports v. In conclusion, with respect to the regulatory mechanism, it was observed: “2.92 … The Committee can safely conclude that all is not well with the regulatory mechanism put in place by the Government for oversight of cutting edge technology as sensitive as GMOs and products thereof. Firstly, GEAC being an entity created under rules rather than an Act of Parliament deprives it of the status, powers and more importantly autonomy and independence that a statutory regulator ought to have. The enforceability of Rules, albeit made under some Act only, does not have as much definitiveness and clarity as under an Act. Furthermore, unlike an Act, there is a lot of scope for varied interpretation of Rules as also flexibility to implement them. The confusion about the recommendatory/approving authority of GEAC whether due to genuine confusion or deliberate; the confession of the Co-Chairman of GEAC, the only technocrat in the top three positions of GEAC, about minister/GEAC/industry pressuring him to favour a bad technology; the various acts of omission and commission of GEAC that have been documented in various chapters of this Report, all go on to cement the view of the Committee that the regulatory mechanism definitely requires the protection and support of an Act of the Parliament which leaves no scope for ambiguity or complacency.” vi. The Committee lamented that even after the Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety was adopted on 17.01.2003, many key issues such as risk assessment, liability and redress, identification of living modified organisms etc. are still in the discussion stage. vii. Having taken note of the various shortcomings and gaps in the regulatory mechanism, the Committee expressed a desire that all research and development be done in containment and field trial be discontinued forthwith. viii. Labelling of GM and non-GM products was also an issue considered by the Committee and it was recommended that [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1919 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. such labelling be made mandatory so that a consumer can make an informed choice. ix. Referring to the Dr. M.S. Swaminathan Report, the Department of Agriculture stated that: “biotechnology provides an opportunity to convert bio resources into economic wealth.