It held that in some contexts, it means “only one of the Directors, does not matter which one”, but in other contexts, it is capable of meaning “every one of the Directors”. It held that which of these two meanings was intended by the legislature in any particular statutory phrase has to be decided by the courts on consideration of the context in which the words appear, and in particular, the scheme and object of the legislation. 119. After examining the scheme of the Mines Act, 1952, the Constitution Bench of this Court further observed thus : (Lala Karam Chand Thapar case [Chief Inspector of Mines v. Lala Karam Chand Thapar, (1962) 1 SCR 9 : AIR 1961 SC 838], AIR pp. 848-49, paras 36-38) “36. But, argues Mr Pathak, one must not forget the special rule of interpretation for “penal statute” that if the language is ambiguous, the interpretation in favour of the accused should ordinarily be adopted. If you interpret “any one” in the sense suggested by him, the legislation he suggests is void and so the accused escapes. One of the two possible constructions, thus being in favour of the accused, should therefore be adopted. In our opinion, there is no substance in this contention. The rule of strict interpretation of penal statutes in favour of the accused is not of universal application, and must be considered along with other well-established rules of interpretation. We have already seen that the scheme and object of the statute makes it reasonable to think that the legislature intended to subject all the Directors of a company owning coal mines to prosecution and penalties, and not one only of the Directors. In the face of these considerations there is no scope here of the application of the rule for strict interpretation of penal statutes in favour of the accused. 37. The High Court appears to have been greatly impressed by the fact that in other statutes where the 956 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports legislature wanted to make every one out of a group or a class of persons liable it used clear language expressing the intention; and that the phrase “any one” has not been used in any other statute in this country to express “every one”. It will be unreasonable, in our opinion, to attach too much weight to this circumstance; and as for the reasons mentioned above, we think the phrase “any one of the Directors” is capable of meaning “every one of the Directors”, the fact that in other statutes, different words were used to express a similar meaning is not of any significance. 38. We have, on all these considerations come to the conclusion that the words “any one of the Directors” has been used in Section 76 to mean “every one of the Directors”, and that the contrary interpretation given by the High Court is not correct.” (emphasis supplied) 120. It could thus be seen that though it was sought to be argued before the Court that since the rule of strict interpretation of penal statutes in favour of the accused has to be adopted and that the word “any” was suffixed by the word “one”, it has to be given restricted meaning; the Court in Lala Karam Chand Thapar case [Chief Inspector of Mines v. Lala Karam Chand Thapar, (1962) 1 SCR 9 : AIR 1961 SC 838] came to the conclusion that the words “any one of the Directors” used in Section 76 of the Mines Act, 1952 would mean “every one of the Directors”.