The meaning thereby afforded is that Section 5 of the old Act was expressly excluded in cases where special law or local law provides for a period of limitation. The learned counsel for the appellant would argue that although in the present case, we are dealing with present Criminal Procedure Code, 1973 and the new Limitation Act, 1963 however, the provisions in the present Code for appeal against acquittal i.e., under Section 378 of CrPC are of similar nature regarding the prescription of a period of limitation for filing an appeal and therefore the law as laid down by Kaushalya Rani (supra), would apply in the present case as well. 7. This submission of the learned counsel is not correct. Subsequent to the decision of this Court in Kaushalya Rani (supra), this Court in Mangu Ram v. Municipal Corporation of Delhi (1976) 1 SCC 392, while dealing with a similar problem of limitation (in an appeal against acquittal), distinguished Kaushalya Rani as Kaushalya Rani was dealing with the old Criminal Procedure Code,1898 and the old Limitation Act, 1908, where provisions were differently worded. Under Section 378 of the new CrPC read with Section 29(2) of the Limitation Act, 1963 though a limitation is prescribed, yet Section 29(2) of 1963 Act, does not exclude the application of Section 5. Section 29(2) of Limitation Act, 1963 reads as under:- “(2) Where any special or local law prescribes for any suit, appeal or application a period of limitation different from the period prescribed by the Schedule, the provisions of Section 3 shall apply as if such period were the period [2024] 2 S.C.R. 643 Mohd Abaad Ali & Anr. v. Directorate of Revenue Prosecution Intelligence prescribed by the Schedule and for the purpose of determining any period of limitation prescribed for any suit, appeal or application by any special or local law, the provisions contained in Sections 4 to 24 (inclusive) shall apply only insofar as, and to the extent to which, they are not expressly excluded by such special or local law.” (emphasis supplied) The crucial difference here is of applicability of Section 5 of Limitation Act. In both the Limitation Acts, i.e. Limitation Act of 1908 and the present Limitation Act of 1963, the provision of extension of time of limitation is given in Section 5 of the two Acts. Whereas 1908 Act specifically states that Section 5 will not apply when the period of limitation is given in special Acts, the 1963 Act makes Section 5 applicable even in the special laws when a period of limitation is prescribed, unless it is expressly excluded by such special law. A comparative provision of Section 29(2) in the two Acts is given below:- Section 29(2) of the Old Section 29(2) of the new Limitation Act of 1908 Limitation Act of 1963 (2) Where any special or local law (2) Where any special or local law prescribes for any suit, appeal or prescribes for any suit, appeal or application a period of limitation application a period of limitation different from the period prescribed different from the period prescribed therefor by the first schedule, the by the Schedule, the provisions provisions of section 3 shall apply of section 3 shall apply as if such as if such period were prescribed period were the period prescribed therefor in that schedule and for by the Schedule and for the the purpose of determining any purpose of determining any period period of limitation prescribed for of limitation prescribed for any any suit, appeal or application by suit, appeal or application by any any special or local law: special or local law, the provisions contained in sections 4 to 24 (a) the provisions contained in (inclusive) shall apply only in so section 4, sections 9 to 18, and far as, and to the extent to which, section 22 shall apply only in so they are not expressly excluded by far as, and to the extent to which, such special or local law.