86 and that in future, if the wall collapses and causes loss to the life and property of the tenants, then, it is the landlords, who will be entirely responsible for the same. The documents like compliant of the tenants, inspection report as well as notice dated 29 August 2002 have been proved in the course of evidence and have been marked as Exhibits 223, 224 and 225. This vital material has been completely ignored by the two Courts. Exclusion of relevant and vital material, is also a species of perversity in the record of any finding of fact. The Court Commissioner was also appointed and even the Report [2024] 1 S.C.R. 1125 Baitulla Ismail Shaikh and Anr. v. Khatija Ismail Panhalkar and Ors. of the Court Commissioner does not make out the case that the premises were required for immediate purpose of demolition. The evidence of the Municipal Engineers as well as the Court Commissioner, at the highest indicates that certain portions of House No.86 are in need of repairs. But the evidence does not make out any case that the suit premises were required for the immediate purpose of demolition. By virtually ignoring such material, the two Courts have proceeded to make a decree of eviction under Section 16(1)(k) of the Rent Act. This is an exercise in excess of jurisdiction. There is both illegality as well as material irregularity in the record of findings of fact, inasmuch as the Courts have failed to ask itself correct question in the context of ‘immediate purpose’ and further failed to consider relevant circumstances, rather the two Courts have allowed themselves to be persuaded by irrelevant circumstances.” (quoted verbatim from the paperbook) 15. Scope of Section 195 of the 1965 Act has been examined by the Bombay High Court in its in the case of M.L. Sonavane -vs- C.G. Sonar [1981 (1) All India Rent Control Journal 466]. It is recorded in this :- “25. The more pertinent question however, is, whether the satisfaction of a local authority can be a substitute for the satisfaction of a court. The court must be satisfied as the section says of two things. It must be satisfied that a decree for possession has to be passed against a tenant and secondly, “premises are required for the immediate purposes of demolition.” Unless the court is satisfied about the existence of both these things, it would be difficult to see how a court can pass a decree for eviction against a tenant. The satisfaction must relate to the requirement of passing a decree for possession against the tenant, and the immediate necessity of demolition. The satisfaction of the court is not a substitute for the satisfaction of the local authority. Nor is it that the court must itself inquire that the premises are in such a ruinous condition that they are required to be demolished. That satisfaction is relegated to 1126 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the local authority. But, even apart from that satisfaction, an area of satisfaction is still reserved for the court by the terms of the section, which deals with that satisfaction with regard to the passing of a decree for possession against the tenant, such satisfaction has also to be with regard to the immediate purpose of demolition.