Irrevocable power of attorney in favour of the parties of the second part herein, as such the parties of the second part herein become the possessors of the total extent of Ac. 115-29 guntas. 7. Whereas parties 2 and 4 of the second part herein have offered to alienate and extent of Ac. 38-15 guntas in land bearing Sy. No. 301 part, 302,303 and 304 part out of the total extent of Ac. 127-29 guntas @ Rs. 1, 00, 000/- per acre which comes to a total sum of Rs. 38, 37, 500/- (Rupees Thirty Eight Lakhs Thirty Seven Thousand give hundred only) and infact, parties of the first part as well parties 1,3,5 and 6 of the parties of the second part herein have no concern either for the agreed sale consideration or for the extent under alienation but they have been made as parties to this agreement not to have a cloud over the title and also to get convey the title in a better way along with the rights for not to give any scope for the litigation in future on any pretext and the parties 1,3,5, and 6 of the parties of the second part herein shall be at liberty either to enjoy or to alienate to their choice of the extent of their share of land situated at Budwel village, Rajendernagar mandal, Ranga Reddy District.” 28. Thus, the conclusion that Clause 21 indicates that an agreement was executed in 1994 with the petitioner which did not materialise is an error apparent on the face of the record. The argument of the respondent that the Court concluded that time is of essence independent of the interpretation of Clause 21, in our opinion, does not hold merit. This Court placed considerable weightage on Clause 21. This Court referred to Clauses 3, 21 and 23 to interpret if time was of essence in the backdrop of the principles laid down 688 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports in Chand Rani (supra). To recall, in Chand Rani (supra), this Court held there is no presumption that time is of essence in a contract for a sale of immovable property and the Court may infer if it was of essence based on (a) express terms of the contract; (b) nature of the property; and (c) surrounding circumstances such as the object of the contract. Clause 21 was interpreted to cast light upon the surrounding circumstances/the object of the contract and was crucial to its decision. 29. Having concluded that the interpretation of Clauses 3 and 21 of the Sale Agreements was erroneous, there is nothing in Clause 23 alone that could be interpreted to prescribe a time for the performance of the contract. Further, the also does not take note of Clause 6 of the agreements to sell which provides that a sale deed will be executed after receiving the balance sale consideration. This clause does not prescribe any time period within which the sale deed must be executed.