In paragraphs 18 and 21, it was held that the contents of the FIR were vague and omnibus, that the FIR lacked precise allegations, and it was lodged after the legal notice for Divorce was sent by the complainant therein. It was therefore concluded that the FIR came to be lodged as a retaliatory measure intended to settle score with the husband and his relatives. 1544 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 22. In another recent of this Court titled Jayedeepsinh Pravinsinh Chavda and Others v. State of Gujarat,5 the guilt of the appellant therein under Section 498-A of IPC was maintained, however, the ingredients of 498-A of IPC were discussed. It was observed thus: “11. From the above understanding of the provision, it is evident that, ‘cruelty’ simpliciter is not enough to constitute the offence, rather it must be done either with the intention to cause grave injury or to drive her to commit suicide or with intention to coercing her or her relatives to meet unlawful demands.” 23. Hence, it was clear that ‘cruelty’ is not enough to constitute the offence. It must be done with the intention to cause grave injury or drive the victim to commit suicide or inflict grave injury to herself. In the present case, the allegations levelled in the FIR do not reveal the existence of any such allegations. The only allegation that referred to an injury being inflicted against the complainant is a vague statement that the son of the appellants herein used to beat her, but there is no specific allegation of any such injury being caused by the appellants herein. 24. In the present case, in the latter half of the FIR, it is alleged that the complainant was given poisonous food by the appellants herein and was coerced into consuming the same. This led to the miscarriage and therefore the offences under Sections 312 and 313 of IPC were attracted. Sections 312 and 313 of the IPC read as under: “312. Causing miscarriage.- Whoever voluntarily causes a woman with child to miscarry, shall, if such miscarriage be not caused in good faith for the purpose of saving the life of the woman, be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to three years, or with fine, or with both; and, if the woman be quick with child, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to seven years, and shall also be liable to fine. 5 2024 INSC 960 : 2024 SCC OnLine SC 3679 [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1545 Digambar and Another v. The State of Maharashtra and Another Explanation.—A woman who causes herself to miscarry, is within the meaning of this section.” 313. Causing miscarriage without woman’s consent.- Whoever commits the offence defined in the last preceding section without the consent of the woman, whether the woman is quick with child or not, shall be punished with 349[imprisonment for life], or with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine.” 25.