For instance, in Obeid v. Queen81, the appellant was charged with the offence of misconduct in office by using his position to gain a pecuniary advantage for himself. One of the grounds argued before the Court of Criminal Appeal for New South Wales was that since Parliament had the power to deal with such contraventions by members of the assembly, the court should have refrained from exercising jurisdiction. The Court followed Chaytor (supra) to hold that the Court and Parliament may have concurrent jurisdiction in respect of criminal matters and there was no law which prohibited the court from determining matters that do not constitute “proceedings in parliament”. 167. The decisions in White (supra) and Boston (supra) were placed before the Court in PV Narasimha Rao (supra). The minority discussed both s in detail and relied on them to conclude that giving a bribe to influence a legislator to vote or speak in Parliament constitutes a criminal offence, which is not protected by Articles 105(2) and 194(2). The majority , however, does not refer to the Australian precedents. I. Elections to the Rajya Sabha are within the remit of Article 194(2) 168. We may lastly direct our attention to an argument raised by Mr Venkataramani, the learned Attorney General. The Attorney General submitted that the decision PV Narasimha Rao (supra) is inapplicable to the facts of the present case. The factual situation in PV Narasimha Rao (supra) pertained to a no-confidence motion, while in the present case, the appellant voted to fill vacant seats in the Council of States or the Rajya Sabha. In the counter affidavit filed by the Respondent, it was submitted that since polling for the Rajya Sabha Election was held outside the house in the lobby, it cannot be considered as a proceeding of the House like a no-confidence motion. However, 81 [2017] NSWCCA 221 [2024] 3 S.C.R. 571 Sita Soren v. Union of India during oral arguments and in his written submissions, the Attorney General premised the argument that polling to the Rajya Sabha is not protected by Article 194(2) on the ground that such an election does not form part of the legislative proceedings of the House regardless of the geographical location of the election. To buttress this argument, the Attorney General relied on three s of this Court in Pashupati Nath Sukul v. Nem Chandra Jain and Ors.,82 Madhukar Jetly v. Union of India,83 and Kuldip Nayar v. Union of India.84 169. Such an argument, although attractive at first blush, appears to be misconceived. In essence, the question is whether votes cast by elected members of the state legislative assembly in an election to the Rajya Sabha are protected by Article 194(2) of the Constitution. Before addressing the s relied on by the learned Attorney General, we will analyze the provisions of the Constitution that govern this interesting question of constitutional interpretation. 170. Article 80 governs the election of members to the Council of States or the Rajya Sabha. The provision reads as follows: “80.