Thus, there was a need for a more robust legal framework particularly for the protection of vulnerable population like children over the internet. 147. The 50th Report of the Standing Committee on Information Technology on the ‘Information Technology (Amendment) Bill, 2007’ noted that although a new provision in the form of Section 67A had been proposed for specifically criminalizing publication or transmission of pornographic material with enhanced punishment, yet there was no specific provision pertaining to child pornography. The Standing Committee, rejected the response of the Department of Information Technology that the provision of Section 67A in general would also include child pornography, and instead recommended that a specific provision for child pornography be incorporated, in to not just criminalize the publication and transmission of child pornography with an enhanced punishment but also to tackle and criminalize other related forms of child sexual abuse such as, online enticement of children into sexual acts, distribution of child pornography and the facilitation or creation of such material. The relevant recommendations read as under: - “6. The Information Technology Act, 2000 was enacted keeping in view technology directions and scenario as it existed at that point of time. As the technology has a habit of reinventing itself into cheaper and more cost- effective options, it becomes imperative to give a fresh look to any technology driven law from time to time. Moreover, due to overall increase in e-commerce, growth in outsourcing business, new forms of transactions, new means of identification, consumers concern, promotion of e-governance and other information technology applications, technology neutrality from its present ‘technology specific’ form in consonance with development 240 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports all over the world, security practices and procedures for protection of Critical Information infrastructure, emergence of new forms of computer misuse like child pornography, video voyeurism, identity theft and e-commerce frauds like phishing and online theft, rationalization of punishment in respect of offences with reference to the Indian Penal code, a need was felt to review the Indian Information Technology Act, 2000” xxx xxx xxx (iii) Child Pornography 118. Clause 31 proposes to insert Section 67 A whereby punishment has been provided for publishing or transmitting of material containing sexually explicit act in electronic form. 119. In the above context, a non-official witness as well as the CBI have been of the view that the proposed Section should be recast to include ‘child pornography’ also and specific provisions should be incorporated in this Section to criminalize child pornography in tune with the laws prevailing in advanced democracies of the world as well as Article 9 of the Council of Europe Convention on Cyber Crimes which states as under: - “Each Party shall adopt such legislative and other measures as may be necessary to establish as criminal offences under its domestic law, when committed intentionally and without right, the following conduct: (a) producing child pornography for the purpose of its distribution through a computer system; (b) offering or making available child pornography through a computer system; (c) distributing or transmitting child pornography through a computer system; (d) procuring child pornography through a computer system for oneself or for another person; (e) possessing child pornography in a computer system or on a computer-data storage medium.