7. Shri Prashant Singh, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent-State, on the contrary, submitted that the trial court and the High Court have concurrently, upon correct appreciation of evidence, found that the prosecution has proved the case beyond reasonable doubt and as such, the and of conviction and sentence warrants no interference. 8. With the assistance of the learned counsel for the parties, we have perused the materials placed on record. 622 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 9. From the evidence of Dr. Arun Kumar (PW-8) who conducted the post-mortem as well as the evidence of Rahul (PW-1) and Shivani (PW-2), we find that the prosecution has proved beyond reasonable doubt that the injuries which were sustained by deceased Sachin were caused by the appellants and injury No. 13 was sufficient to cause death of deceased Sachin. As such, we find that no interference would be warranted with the finding of the trial court and the High Court that the appellants have caused homicidal death of deceased Sachin. 10. The next question that arises for consideration is as to whether the accused can be convicted for the offence punishable under Section 302 of IPC or in the facts and circumstance of the case, the conviction needs to be altered to a lesser offence. 11. According to Rahul (PW-1), on the date of the incident i.e. 28th November 2016 at around 8:45-9:00 PM, when he was talking to Shivani (PW-2), the accused persons came there and started arguing with deceased Sachin. He stated that accused Gaurav @ Bakra started abusing deceased Sachin and when they both (Rahul (PW-1) and deceased Sachin) objected to this, the accused persons caught hold of deceased Sachin. When the said witness attempted to save deceased Sachin, the accused persons hit him with danda on his head. Then, accused Nitin @ Devender pulled out a knife from his possession. On seeing this, deceased Sachin started running to save himself. However, accused persons caught deceased Sachin at the pulia of gandanala at Block-EE and started giving knife blows to him. At that time, a police official was passing from the street on motor-cycle and Shivani (PW-2) stood before his motor-cycle and stopped him. Shivani (PW-2) brought the police official to the place where deceased Sachin was being beaten up. On seeing the said police official, all the four accused ran away. Shivani (PW-2) made calls on No. 100 and after some time, a PCR van reached the spot. Thereafter, deceased Sachin and Rahul (PW-1) were taken to the hospital. 12. It is to be noted that, though the incident was alleged to have taken place on the night of 28th November 2016, the FIR was lodged on 30th November 2016 i.e. after more than 24 hours. Though Rahul (PW-1) has tried to give an explanation that after he had been taken to BJRM Hospital, he left the said hospital in to search for his friend deceased Sachin and thereafter he fell unconscious; the said explanation does not appear to be plausible inasmuch as the [2024] 9 S.C.R.