30. Again in the case of Mohd. Zubair Vs. State (NCT of Delhi),4 a three-Judge Bench of this Court once again emphasized that the existence of the power of arrest must be distinguished from the exercise of the power of arrest. The exercise of the power of arrest must be pursued sparingly. This Court reiterated the role of the courts in protecting personal liberty and ensuring that investigations are not used as a tool of harassment. Referring to its earlier decision in Arnab Ranjan Goswami Vs. Union of India,5 this Court observed that the courts should be alive to both ends of the spectrum: the need to ensure proper enforcement of criminal law on the one hand and the need to ensure that the law does not become a ruse for targeted harassment on the other hand. Courts must ensure that they continue to remain the first line of defence against the deprivation of liberty of the citizens. Deprivation of liberty even for a single day is one day too many. 31. When the CBI did not feel the necessity to arrest the appellant for 22 long months, I fail to understand the great hurry and urgency on the part of the CBI to arrest the appellant when he was on the cusp of release in the ED case. The substantive charge against the appellant is under Section 477A IPC which deals with falsification of accounts and if convicted carries a punishment of imprisonment 4 [2022] 18 SCR 494 : (2022) SCC Online SC 897 5 [2020] 8 SCR 222 : (2020) 14 SCC 12 718 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports for a term which may extend to seven years or with fine or with both. The appellant has also been charged under Section 7 of the PC Act which deals with offence relating to a public servant being bribed. Here the punishment, if convicted, is imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than three years but which may extend to seven years and shall also be liable to fine. Without entering into the semantics of applicability of Section 41(1)(b)(ii) and Section 41A Cr.P.C. as explained by this Court in Arnesh Kumar (supra), timing of the arrest of the appellant by the CBI is quite suspect. 32. CBI is a premier investigating agency of the country. It is in public interest that CBI must not only be above board but must also be seem to be so. Rule of law, which is a basic feature of our constitutional republic, mandates that investigation must be fair, transparent and judicious. This Court has time and again emphasized that fair investigation is a fundamental right of an accused person under Articles 20 and 21 of the Constitution of India. Investigation must not only be fair but must be seem to be so. Every effort must be made to remove any perception that investigation was not carried out fairly and that the arrest was made in a high-handed and biased manner.