32. Thus, it stands proved from the testimonies of PW-3 and PW-4 that on the fateful day, the deceased and appellant no. 1 had proceeded to the bus stand to leave for Chandigarh but they returned back as they could not find any bus. Naturally, despite the disappointment of not finding a bus, the deceased must have been happy to have finally found a way to go to Chandigarh along with her husband. However, after she came back, a quarrel took place between the appellant no. 2 and the deceased. This was at around 4 PM, after the return of appellant no. 2 from Dharat. Thereafter, PW-3 and PW-4 left for [2024] 11 S.C.R. 921 Vijaya Singh & Anr. v. State of Uttarakhand picking grass and when they returned around 6 PM, the deceased was found dead due to burning. During this interval, only the appellants were at home along with the deceased. The presence of appellant no. 2 at the place of occurrence is duly established and the testimony of DW-1 stands falsified in light of the versions put forth by PW-3 and PW-4. Even otherwise, as per DW-1, appellant no. 2 came back at 5 PM and incident is stated to be of 6 PM. The courts below have correctly analyzed this aspect and no case for alibi is made out. 33. The appellants have urged that the death of the deceased was suicidal and not homicidal. The reason given for suicide is that the deceased was frustrated as she could not go to Chandigarh along with her husband. The reason does not inspire confidence at all. For, there is no proportionality of this reason with the drastic act of suicide and even otherwise, on the date of incident, the deceased and appellant no. 1 had left for Chandigarh and had to return due to non-availability of bus. Thus, the deceased had no reason to be frustrated about it as things were finally moving as per her desire. Furthermore, the deceased was pregnant at the time of incident and she could not have taken a drastic step of suicide with a womb in her stomach. On the contrary, it is not difficult to accept that appellant no. 2 must have been angry with the deceased for going to Chandigarh and the quarrel which took place between the deceased and appellant no. 2, as per PW-3 and PW-4, was consistent with the natural course of events on the fateful day. 34. So far as the possibility of suicide is concerned, it is difficult to believe that the deceased managed to procure two cans of kerosene (5 litres each) on her own for committing suicide within a time bracket of two hours, that too in the presence of the appellants in the house. It is equally difficult to believe that the deceased poured almost 9 litres of kerosene on herself, put herself on fire and kept on burning till her body suffered 100% burns, without the appellants getting a whisper about the same despite being present in the same house.