The appellant rushed the co-passenger to a hospital, leaving the car capsized in the ditch. In this state, one of the wires in the car short-circuited,which set the car on fire and it was damaged substantially. While the appellant lodged an FIR on the same day, he wrote to the respondent only on 28.03.2013. The respondent appointed a surveyor, who assessed the damage to be Rs. 53,543.97/- but stated that the damage occurred due to the appellant’s omission to take care of the vehicle. Accordingly, the respondent denied the insurance claim citing delay in the intimation and on having left the vehicle unattended, exposing it to further damage. 5. The appellant had approached the District Commission claiming Rs. 5,02,285/- being the insured value of the vehicle. Having considered the matter in detail, the District Commission held that the delay in intimating the insurer was caused due to the appellant’s attempts to rescue his co-passenger and that, by itself,cannot be fatal to the insurance claim. The Commission also found that the 2 Hereinafter, referred to as the ‘District Commission’. 3 Hereinafter, referred to as the ‘State Commission’. 1112 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports appellant’s claim was genuine and it is evidenced by prompt reporting to the police. After a detailed examination, the District Commission held that even assuming the short-circuiting could have been avoided by monitoring the vehicle, the appellant would still be entitled to insurance amount on a non-standard basis, that is, with minimal deduction. Hence, it partly allowed the complaint by its dated 09.11.2016 directing the respondent to release 75% of the insurance amount, i.e., Rs. 3,76,713/-. 6. Aggrieved, both the parties filed cross-appeals before the State Commission. The State Commission allowed the appeal of the appellant fully and directed the release of the entire insured sum of Rs. 5,02,285/- with 9% interest from the date of filing the complaint till actual realization. 7. The insurance company, the respondent herein, filed a revision petition under Section 21(b) of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 before the National Commission. By the impugned before us, the National Commission partly allowed the appeal and reduced the insurance amount to just Rs. 53,543/-.While upholding the findings of the District and State Commissions to be correct in finding the delay in intimation not being fatal and also that the claim of the accident was promptly reported to the police, the Commission,however proceeded to rely on Condition no. 4 of the policy to reduce the insurance payable. As per Condition No.4, the vehicle could not have been left unattended by an insured and if further damage is done because the vehicle is unattended and proper precaution is not taken, then claim is beyond the insurance cover. In the facts of the case, the commission came to the conclusion that the damage due to the short-circuiting was ‘damage following the accident’ and caused squarely due to the vehicle being unattended. Hence, it held that the damage due to short-circuiting was not payable and the only amount that needed to be paid by the respondent was the damage attributed solely to the accident on 25.03.2013, and not to the short-circuiting following the accident.