We have already held in our dated 08.04.2024 that such candidates cannot be given any relief. 6. Before the Chhattisgarh High Court, petitions were filed by candidates holding Diploma in Elementary Education, challenging the eligibility of B.Ed. candidates on the grounds that they were not entitled to be appointed as primary school teachers. In their defence the B.Ed. candidates had argued that B.Ed. is one of the [2024] 8 S.C.R. 815 Navin Kumar & Ors. v. Union of India & Ors. Etc. qualifications for appointment of elementary school teachers under the applicable Rules i.e., Chhattisgarh School Education Services (Educational and Administrative Cadre) Recruitment and Promotion Rules, 2019 (“2019 Rules”), and thus, they have the necessary qualification. 7. All the same, apprised of the of this Court in Devesh Sharma (supra), the Division Bench of Chhattisgarh High Court had passed an interim on 21.08.2023 whereby the recruitment process was directed to be kept in abeyance as regards B.Ed. candidates. This is what was said: Considering the arguments advanced by learned counsel for the parties and also considering the law laid down by the Apex Court on the issue in question passed in Civil Appeal No. 5068 of 2023 (Devesh Sharma Vs. Union of India & Others decided on 11.08.2023), the further recruitment process with regard to the candidates having B.Ed. qualification for the post of Assistant Teachers shall be kept in abeyance with immediate effect and further no final decision would be taken by the respondents in respect of such candidates till the next date of hearing. 8. This interim of High Court was then challenged by B.Ed. candidates before this Court, where a Division Bench of this Court passed the following dated 29.08.2023: In the meantime, taking into consideration that the recruitment process which was in progress, is now interrupted by the ad-interim dated 21.08.2023 and the aspect ultimately to be considered by the High Court is with regard to the manner in which the in C.A. No. 5068 of 2023 passed by this Court is to be construed, at this stage interrupting the recruitment process would not be justified. Therefore, to the said extent, we hereby stay the dated 21.08.2023 passed by the High Court and clarify that the recruitment process, which was in progress prior to the date of the said interim passed by the High Court, shall continue and the appointments, if any, made thereunder will however remain subject to result of the 816 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports consideration to be made by the High Court in W.P.S No. 5788 of 2023. The selected candidates shall be informed of the same by the Appointing Authority concerned. (emphasis supplied) 9. The above of this Court has clarified that the selection and appointment of B.Ed. candidates would be subject to the final decision of the High Court in the writ petition. Later, when they were given appointments, their Appointment also clearly states that this appointment is subject to the decision of Chhattisgarh High Court in the pending writ petition.