The detention was challenged by the wife of the detenu in a habeas corpus petition before the Division Bench of the Telangana High Court. The ground taken by the petitioner before the High Court was that reliance has been [2024] 3 S.C.R. 1219 Nenavath Bujji Etc. v. The State of Telangana and Ors. taken by the Authority of four cases of chain snatching, as already mentioned above. The admitted position is that in all these four cases the detenu has been released on bail by the Magistrate. Moreover, in any case, the nature of crime as alleged against the petitioner can at best be said to be a law and situation and not the public situation, which would have justified invoking the powers under the preventive detention law. This, however did not find favour with the Division Bench of the High Court, which dismissed the petition, upholding the validity of the detention . xxx xxx xxx 19. In any case, the State is not without a remedy, as in case the detenu is much a menace to the society as is being alleged, then the prosecution should seek for the cancellation of his bail and/or move an appeal to the Higher Court. But definitely seeking shelter under the preventive detention law is not the proper remedy under the facts and circumstances of the case.” (Emphasis supplied) ii. Summary of the Findings. 43. We summarize our conclusions as under: - (i) The Detaining Authority should take into consideration only relevant and vital material to arrive at the requisite subjective satisfaction, (ii) It is an unwritten law, constitutional and administrative, that wherever a decision-making function is entrusted to the subjective satisfaction of the statutory functionary, there is an implicit duty to apply his mind to the pertinent and proximate matters and eschew those which are irrelevant & remote, (iii) There can be no dispute about the settled proposition that the detention requires subjective satisfaction of the detaining authority which, ordinarily, cannot be questioned by the court for insufficiency of material. Nonetheless, if the detaining authority does not consider relevant circumstances or considers wholly unnecessary, immaterial and irrelevant circumstances, then such subjective satisfaction would be vitiated, 1220 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (iv) In quashing the of detention, the Court does not sit in over the correctness of the subjective satisfaction. The anxiety of the Court should be to ascertain as to whether the decision-making process for reaching the subjective satisfaction is based on objective facts or influenced by any caprice, malice or irrelevant considerations or non-application of mind, (v) While making a detention , the authority should arrive at a proper satisfaction which should be reflected clearly, and in categorical terms, in the of detention, (vi) The satisfaction cannot be inferred by mere statement in the that “it was necessary to prevent the detenu from acting in a manner prejudicial to the maintenance of public ”. Rather the detaining authority will have to justify the detention from the material that existed before him and the process of considering the said material should be reflected in the of detention while expressing its satisfaction, (vii) Inability on the part of the state’s police machinery to tackle the law and situation should not be an excuse to invoke the jurisdiction of preventive detention, (viii) Justification for such an should exist in the ground(s) furnished to the detenu to reinforce the of detention.