Learned Senior Counsel Mr. Joy Basu for the Insured argued that this letter was an attempt to goad the surveyors and that the response of surveyors dated 07.12.2002 was a reluctant response from an embarrassed surveyor. We are not prepared to countenance the submission of Mr. Joy Basu, learned Senior Counsel. In fact, the Insured is fortunate that there was no total repudiation for non supply of relevant documents. 65. In fact the sequence of events shows the following; soon after the claim, there was an interim survey of 04.02.1999 where minimum loss on reinstatement value basis was estimated to be around Rs.15 crores and maximum loss on reinstatement value basis was estimated to be Rs.25 crores. An on-account payment of Rs. 7.20 314 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports crores was recommended. Thereafter, it is interesting to note that from the 11.12.2001 report that between December, 1998 and July 1999 there were talks and inspections with suppliers/manufacturers and the officials of the Insured. It further appears that the loss assessment exercise was complete by July, 1999 and the report was held back due to investigation by other agencies. This is clear from the following preliminary portion of the 11.12.2001 report: “1.00 INSTRUCTIONS Instructions were received from New India Assurance Co. Ltd. Regional Office II, New Delhi on 13.12.98 by R.K. Singhal & Company Private Ltd. to survey and assess the damage to Insured’s 20 HI Rolling Mill due to a fire that broke out in Insured’s factory in the evening of 12th December. Accordingly Mr. R.K. Singhal visited Insured’s factory on 13th December 98 and carried out a preliminary inspection of the subject machine. A.K. Govil & Associates were subsequently co-opted as joint surveyors by Regional Office vide their Facsimile of 16th December. Their representatives visited Insured factory on 17th December in to carry out the necessary inspection. Based on the physical inspection carried out and limited information made available by the Insured till then, the above surveyors submitted their join preliminary survey report on 22nd December 1998. Subsequently the underwriters appointed P.C. Gandhi & Associates as another joint surveyors. The joint surveyors visited the Insured factory jointly and severally on various dates and carried out detailed physical inspection of the subject machine besides carrying out protracted discussions with the Insured official accompanied by Suppliers/ Manufacturers of the Mill. Accordingly, matter was discussed with insurers several occasions and loss assessment exercise was almost complete by July -1999. We understand that insurer had received some complaint concerning subject loss and the matter went into investigations by various agencies one after another. [2024] 5 S.C.R. 315 New India Assurance Company Ltd. Through its Manager v. M/s Tata Steel Ltd. Insurer had also referred some matters to us and necessary information and assistance were extended to the insurer as well as concerned agencies. Insurer have now advised us in the month of November 2001 to submit final loss assessment report. In view of the above, this final survey report is issued without prejudice and is based on documents submitted by the insured and physical verification carried out by us.