The jurisdiction was therefore chosen based on the perceived neutrality by the parties aligning with the principle of party autonomy. Interestingly in the present case, no setting aside challenge based on bias was raised before the Singapore Courts by the appellants within the limitation period. In this context, the Bombay High Court in a in Perma Container (UK) Line Limited v Perma Container Line (India) Ltd33 had noted that since the objection of bias was not raised in appropriate proceedings under the English Arbitration Act,1996, it could not be raised at the post- award Stage. Similarly, this Court in Vijay Karia (supra) had noted that no challenge was made to the foreign award under the English Arbitration Law, even though the remedy was available. Rejecting the challenge to the award on the ground of bias, the Court in Vijay Karia (supra) remarked that the Award Debtors were indulging in “speculative litigation with the fond hope that by flinging mud on a foreign arbitral award, some of the mud so flung would stick”. Similar view has also been taken by the German Supreme Court in Shipowner (Netherlands) v Cattle and Meat Dealer (Germany)34, where it was held that the objection of bias must be first raised in the Country of origin of the Award and only if the objection was rejected or was impossible to raise, could it be raised at the time of enforcement. 28. In the present case also, the Award Holders had challenged the appointment of Mr. Christopher Lau SC and Dr Pryles before SIAC only on the ground that the Tribunal had intentionally fixed November 2013 for hearing knowing that it coincided with the Diwali vacation and that the Indian counsel would therefore not be available. This challenge was dismissed by the SIAC Committee of the Court of Arbitration in its decision dated September 13, 2014. Therefore, none of the other grounds now being pressed were raised during the arbitration or in the time period available to the appellants to apply, to set aside the Award in Singapore. 29. It needs emphasizing that bonafide challenges to arbitral appointments have to be made in a timely fashion and should not be used strategically to delay the enforcement process. In other words, the 33 2014 SCC OnLine Bom 575 34 Dutch Shipowner v. German Cattle and Meat Dealer, Bundesgerichtshof, Germany, 1 February 2001, XXIX Y.B.Com. Arb. 700 (2004) 988 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Award Debtors should have applied for setting aside of the Award before the Singapore Courts at the earliest point of time. Implications of the IBA Guidelines 30. The High Court in this case applied the reasonable third-person test contained in the IBA Guidelines to conclude that there is no requirement of disclosure and bias. The IBA Guidelines are a collective effort of the arbitration community to define as to what constitutes bias. However, bias has to be determined on a case-to-basis but Courts should attempt to apply international standards, while dealing with challenges at the enforcement stage.