Furthermore, it was held therein that it would not be appropriate for the High Court to merely record that the of the trial Court was perverse without specifically dealing with the facets of perversity relating to the issues of law and/ or appreciation of evidence, as otherwise such observation of the High Court would not be sustainable in law. 8. Having taken note of the position settled thus we may add that when the High Court acquitted the convict(s) in the appeal filed under Section 374, Cr.P.C., in reversal of conviction, by granting the benefit of doubt after a proper appreciation of evidence interference is permissible and justifiable only if it is infected with perversity in troth, the prosecution was not successful in establishing the guilt of the accused beyond reasonable doubt. In the decision in State of U.P. v. Dharmaraj and Anr.,3 which involved a challenge against a of acquittal in a murder case by the High Court, this Court held that when on facts the view taken by the High Court was a reasonably possible view, though not the only view that could be taken, interference with acquittal would be uncalled for. 9. Bearing in mind the aforesaid decisions and the fact that the trial Court and the High Court are at issue on the question whether the respondents are guilty in the case on hand, we will proceed to consider the captioned appeal. Obviously, the trial Court relied on 2 [2012] 5 SCR 67 : (2012) 4 SCC 722 3 (2003) 9 SCC 39 [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1881 The State of Madhya Pradesh v. Ramjan Khan & Ors. the oral testimonies of PWs 5, 8 and 9 whereas in the appeal the High Court found the oral evidence of PWs 5, 8 and 9 as unreliable. 10. Before dealing with the oral testimonies of the minor brothers of the deceased (PWs 5 and 9), we will deal with the oral evidence of PW-8, the mother of the deceased. She is the informant at whose instance FIR No.78/96 was registered against the respondents herein. Though she was believed by the trial Court, on re-appreciation the High Court found her unreliable owing to the material improvements and omissions made while being examined as PW-8. It was brought out while being cross-examined that she had not deposed at all about a dying declaration made to her by the deceased son. Before analysing her evidence further, it is not inappropriate to refer to a few decisions having bearing on her testimony. 11. FIR is not an encyclopedia disclosing all facts and details relating the entire prosecution case. (See the decisions in Superintendent of Police, CBI & Ors. v. Tapan Kumar Singh;4 State of UP v. Naresh & Ors. ;5 Lalitha Kumari v. Government of UP & Ors.,6 and Amish Devgan v. UOI & Ors.7). 12. It is true that the aforementioned decisions would undoubtedly reveal the position that an FIR is not meant to be a detailed document containing chronicle of all intricate and minute details.