He also referred to the Constituent Assembly Debates to argue that the understanding of the constitution makers was that the AMU was an institution of a national character. It is argued that there is a difference between a university established under an Act 1940 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports by private persons and a university established by an Act. He argued that the AMU is established by the Act and not under the Act by the Muslim community. 67. Mr Neeraj Kishan Kaul, Ld. Senior Counsel, took the stand that the correctness of Azeez Basha [supra] had been referred only to the limited extent of determining whether its holding of the words “establish” and “administer” being conjunctive in Article 30 was correct or not. He argued that the original reference in Anjuman [supra] only referred the question of whether an institution could be called a minority institution even if certain non-minority individuals had been involved in its establishment. He also relied on the reference dated 12.02.2019 to argue that the status of AMU had not been referred as a question at all. 68. In support of the conjunctive nature of the words establish and administer, Mr. Kaul relied on Hyderabad Asbestos Cement Products v. Union of India, (2000) 1 SCC 426 and St. Stephens [supra] and also on the 2010 amendments to the NCMEI Act referred to above. It was argued that applying a disjunctive test would lead to adverse consequences since it would enable institutions to claim minority status even if they were never administered by minorities. It is submitted that no adverse effect would be caused to the right of minorities to establish universities as a result of Azeez Basha [supra]. It was argued that any university which wanted a minority status was free to do so and in the absence of action by the concerned authorities could take advantage of the deeming provision under the NCMEI Act. 69. Mr. Kaul argued that the creation of the AMU was the creation of a new and distinct entity, not merely the incorporation of an existing institution as a university. The old MAO college had been completely dissolved and its assets and liabilities transferred to the University. It was further stated that the Act used the words “an act to establish” and it did not anywhere state that it was recognising an existing institution. 70. Mr. Kaul defended the correctness of Azeez Basha [supra] by submitting that it had correctly appreciated the antecedent history of the MAO College and the AMU. He next referred to TMA Pai [supra] and the five parameters of administrative control outlined therein i.e. admissions, fees, governing body composition, appointment of [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1941 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. staff and disciplinary control over staff. On each of those criteria, it was argued that the real control was with the government due to the predominant role of the Visiting Board and the Lord Rector. Mr. Kaul argued that the 1981 Act had been correctly struck down by the Allahabad High Court since it did not take away the basis of Azeez Basha [supra] and moreover because legal fictions could not supplant historical facts.