83 Tapas Guha & Ors. v. Union of India & Ors. a tea garden tea bushes and shade trees are removed and uprooted at regular intervals once the trees grow old and there is a loss of production of tea. The letter dated 22 April 2024 is a self-serving document prepared on the same date as the affidavit. 14. What warrants attention, however, is that in the present case, the clearance of the site cannot be unequivocally attributed to the cultivation activities of the tea estate. The clearance was evidently not a part of the regular maintenance of the tea estate but to facilitate the proposed new airport. The Solicitor General sought to urge that the possession of the site was handed over in June 2022 and hence the destruction of the vegetation in May 2022 was not by the respondents but likely by the inhabitants. It is inconceivable that an organized operation involving over 200-250 JCBs was done at the behest of the tea garden workers. Moreover, it has emerged that on 11 May 2022 s were issued by the District Magistrate under Section 144 CrPC. This was a prelude to the organized activities which took place in the month of May 2022, as recorded in the statements appended to the report of the DLSA. The affidavit of the Joint Secretary to the State government has been rather liberal with the truth by suppressing the actual state of facts. 15. Paragraph 2 of the notification dated 14 September 2006 requires prior Environmental Clearance “before any construction work or preparation of land by the project management is carried out except for the securing of land”. The nature of the activities which were carried out at the site was evidently of an extensive nature and is in breach of paragraph 2 of the notification. 16. There was a complete abdication of adjudicatory duties by the NGT to verify the authenticity of the grievance of the appellants. As an expert body which has been formed under a statute enacted by the Parliament, in the interest of the preservation of the environment, it was first and foremost the duty of the Tribunal to verify the authenticity of the grievance of the appellants. 17. The Tribunal, however, simply dismissed the OA having come to the conclusion that no Environmental Clearance had been issued. If the Tribunal were to enquire into the matter even on a prima facie assessment, the facts which have emerged before this Court would have come on the record. The perfunctory dismissal of the case by the NGT not only reflects a lack of due diligence but also demonstrates 84 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports a disregard for the gravity of the environmental concerns raised by the appellants. This casual, if not callous, approach to adjudication not only undermines the integrity of the judicial process but also compromises the very purpose for which the NGT was established – to safeguard the environment, ensure sustainable development and facilitate the effective and expeditious disposal of cases related to the protection and conservation of the environment, forests, and other natural resources.