The psychological trauma that such displacement can bring about needs no elaboration. However, the cruel passage of time has unfortunately rendered the appellant’s original hopes of reinstatement an unrealised dream. 13. The appellant, as an alternative relief, has consistently prayed for disability pension but was denied the same on the ground that the disease is self-inflicted. [2024] 3 S.C.R. 875 Satyanand Singh v. Union of India & Ors. 14. At this juncture, we consider it apposite to refer to certain provisions of the Notice published by the Army: “4. Pulmonary Tuberculosis and HIV infection will not be assessed separately for attributability / aggravation. HIV aggravation is a ‘STD’ and hence AIDS is self-inflicted, neither attributable nor aggravated. 5. The policy on awarding longevity and percentage of disability for HIV+ve service personnel brought before release medical Board is as follows :- ‘As per existing instructions, JCOs/ORs or their equivalent in the Navy/Air Force placed in permanent low Medical category are permitted to continue in service only in case the Unit COs render a certificate to the effect that sheltered appointment shall be provided. Otherwise such individuals are brought before Release Medical Board for releasing from service. It is unlikely that HIV positive cases in perm low Medical Category would be given sheltered appointment and recommended for retention in service by unit cos’. 6. Following procedure will be followed in HIV+ve service personnel brought before Release Medical Board. a) Longevity: By the time HIV+ve case is brought before Release Medical Board, it is likely that he had acquired the infection about 1-2 years earlier. Therefore, it is likely that he would develop AIDS within next 6-8 years. After development of AIDS the average life span is only 1-2 years. Therefore loading of age by 2 years at the time of Release Medical Board is considered appropriate. b) Percentage of disability: In fact viral multiplication during this period is average and the immune system being systematically destroyed. Apart from infection, HIV+ve cases will suffer emotionally, psychologically and socially. Taking all these factors in consideration, 40% disability for asymptomatic cases and upto 100% for symptomatic cases will be awarded.” 876 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 15. A perusal of the Notice reveals that in terms of Para 6A, a person who has been diagnosed as HIV+ve was expected to develop AIDS within 6-8 years, and thereafter, have a limited lifespan of only 1-2 years. We cannot help but record reservation as the policy reflects the systemic discriminatory practice and predisposition treating HIV as aggravation of STD and AIDS is self-inflicted. In arguendo, even going by the respondents’ own policy, the appellant could not be said to be suffering from AIDS since, in flagrant defiance of the policy assessment, the appellant is reportedly still alive and suffering from no serious ailment. 16. A further examination of the respondents’ policy reveals that though AIDS was always deemed to be a self-inflicted disease, there was still a provision for conferring disability status to those afflicted with the same.