(f) Since this Court has dismissed the previous appeals filed by the State of Haryana against the same impugned , the present set of appeals are not maintainable and attract the auspices of the doctrine of merger. C. ISSUES 11. Having given our thoughtful consideration to the submissions at length, we find that the following four issues are to be analysed: i. Whether the mandatory procedure contemplated under Section 5A of the 1894 Act has been complied with? ii. Whether the land acquisition proceedings deserve to be vitiated on the ground that similarly placed landowners have been treated differently? iii. Whether the instant appeals are liable to be dismissed as infructuous in view of the subsequent developments like `settlement’ between the parties? iv. Whether doctrine of merger is attracted in view of the fact that State appeals against the same impugned have already been dismissed? [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2287 Haryana Urban Development Authority v. Abhishek Gupta etc. D. ANALYSIS D.1 Evaluation of objections under Section 5A of the 1894 Act 12. The focal contention of the Respondent-landowners is that the acquisition proceedings stand vitiated and ought to be quashed as they were carried out in violation of Section 5A of the 1894 Act, which mandates due consideration of their objections. 13. It would be pertinent to understand the object that Section 5A of the 1894 Act seeks to fulfil. A plain reading of the provision indicates that it codifies the fundamental safeguard of audi altrem partem. Landowners have the opportunity to demonstrate that the acquisition is against public purpose or marred by mala fides. In the event the landowner presents a cogent case, the appropriate government may exempt such land from acquisition. By enabling landowners to put forward their perspective and elucidate their remonstrances, Section 5A envisions a modus of deliberation and consultation, which must therefore be construed to be mandatory, akin to a right.2 14. Objections under Section 5A of the 1894 Act most often proceed in four distinct stages: i. The filing stage: Landowners can file objections within thirty days of the notification issued under Section 4 of the 1894 Act;3 ii. The hearing stage: The Collector must provide an oral hearing to the objecting landowners, either in person or through a pleader/ authorized representative;4 iii. The recommendation stage: The Collector—after hearing objections and upon further inquiry—makes a report to the appropriate government containing their recommendations; and iv. The decision stage: The appropriate government considers the Collector’s report and takes a final decision on the objections. 15. Reverting to the case in hand, although the Respondents have averred that their right under Section 5A has been infringed, however, 2 Women’s Education Trust v. State of Haryana (2013) 8 SCC 99, para 1. 3 Section 5A (1), 1894 Act. 4 NOIDA v. Darshan Lal Bora, 2024 INS 508. 2288 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports they have failed to substantiate such claim. Onus was on the Respondents to identify any fault in the procedure adopted by the State, which we find tracks closely with the aforementioned four-stage process.