A challenge to the constitutional validity of such cess was successfully laid before this Court and the Section 3(2)(c) of the Orissa legislation was struck down as unconstitutional as ultra vires the competence of the State Legislature in Mahanadi Coalfields. 23.3 Insofar as the cases arising from the Allahabad High Court concerning constitutional validity of a cess on mineral rights levied under Section 35 of the Uttar Pradesh Special Area Development Authorities Act, 1986 read with Rule 3 of Shakti Nagar Special Area Development Authority (Cess on Mineral Rights) Rules, 1997 (“the SADA Act” and “the SADA Cess Rules”, respectively), the challenge was to the imposition of cess on mineral rights at such rates as may be prescribed, subject to any limitations imposed by Parliament by law relating 1804 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports to mineral development. The SADA Cess Rules as well as Section 35 of the SADA Act were challenged on the ground that MMDR Act, 1957 having been enacted, containing a declaration under Section 2 thereof as contemplated by Entry 54 - List I and the Act being applicable to the State of Uttar Pradesh as well, the State legislature was denuded of its power to enact the impugned law and levy impugned cess. It was contended that the impugned cess would have the impact of adding to the royalty already being paid and thereby increase the same, which was ultra vires the power of the State Government as that power could only be exercised by the Central Government. The Allahabad High Court held that SADA Act and SADA Rules and the levy of cess thereunder was within the competence of the State Legislature with reference to Entry 50 - List II. Since this Court, through a three-judge Bench, had noted a conflict of decisions, the matters were placed before Hon’ble the Chief Justice for appropriate directions. Thereafter, the matters were listed before a five-Judge Constitution Bench. 23.4 The Constitution Bench in Kesoram noted the question of constitutional significance centring around Entries 52, 54 and 97 - List I and Entries 23, 49, 50 and 66 - List II, as also the extent and purport of the residuary power of legislation vested in the Union of India. In Paragraph 52 of the , this Court noted the questions which arose in India Cement and encapsulated the ratio of the said . 23.5 In India Cement, the of the Mysore High Court in Laxminarayana Mining Co. was cited with approval. As already noted, the Mysore High Court had struck down as violative of the MMDR Act, 1957 imposition of a licence fee on mining manganese, iron ore, etc., under a State legislation by issuance of a notification. In Kesoram, while considering the ratio of the of the Division Bench of the Mysore High Court in Laxminarayana Mining Co., which had held that, licence fee was a step trenching upon the field of regulation and mineral development, was liable to be struck down on that ground alone, in paragraph 55, observed as under: “55.