It can thus be seen that, this Court held that there was an essential difference between “acquisition by the State” on the one hand and “modification or extinguishment of rights” on the other hand. It was held that in the first case, the beneficiary was the State while in the latter case, the beneficiary of the modification or the extinguishment was not the State. This Court held that since the Panchayat would fall within the definition of the word “State” under Article 12 of the Constitution, if the acquisition is for the purposes of providing income [2024] 6 S.C.R. 923 Karnail Singh v. State of Haryana & Ors. to the Panchayat, it would defeat the whole object of the second proviso. This Court held that the Consolidation Officer could easily defeat the object of the second proviso to Article 31-A by reserving for the income of the Panchayat a major portion of the land belonging to a person holding land within the ceiling limit. 47. The second argument which was advanced before this Court in Bhagat Ram was that acquisition had already taken place before the Constitution (Seventeenth Amendment) Act, 1964 came into force and therefore the scheme was not hit by the second proviso to Article 31-A. It was sought to be argued that the requirements as contemplated under Sections 23, 24 and 21(2) of the Consolidation Act were already complete and as such, the acquisition had already taken place before the Constitution (Seventeenth Amendment) Act, 1964. 48. It will be relevant to refer to the following observations of this Court in the majority in Bhagat Ram while rejecting the aforesaid submissions: “4. It is clear from this affidavit that possession has not been transferred in pursuance of the repartition. The learned Counsel for the petitioners relies on this fact and says that in view of Section 23-A and Section 24 the “acquisition” does not take place till all the persons entitled to possession of holdings under the Act have entered into possession of the holdings. Sections 23-A and 24 read as follows: “23-A. As soon as a scheme comes into force, the management and control of all lands assigned or reserved for common purposes of the village under Section 18, shall vest in the Panchayat of that village which shall also be entitled to appropriate the income accruing therefrom for the benefit of the village community, and the rights and interest of the owners of such lands shall stand modified and extinguished accordingly. 24. (1) As soon as the persons entitled to possession of holdings under this Act have entered into possession of the holdings respectively allotted to them, the scheme shall be deemed to have come into 924 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports force and the possession of the allottees affected by the scheme of consolidation, or, as the case may be, by repartition, shall remain undisturbed until a fresh scheme is brought into force or a change is ed in pursuance of provisions of sub-section (2), (3) and (4) of Section 21 or an passed under Section 36 or 42 of this Act.