Digital Supreme Court Reports In continuation with the issued vide no. 5783-UDMA- 22012(14)/11/2022 dated 01.12.2022, it has been further decided that the operation and maintenance of the 37 bridges, flyovers, foot over bridges, under pass & culverts attached herewith to be taken over by KMC from KMDA. In that case the revenues earned from advertisements and displays erected on these assets (including the piers of the bridges) to be accrued to KMC. This shall take immediate effect. Sd/- Principal Secretary to the Govt. of West Bengal” 22. In view of the fact that a fresh tender had already been awarded to a third-party, coupled with the fact that the right to collect revenue from the advertisements for the concerned underpasses had been handed over to KMC, the counsel for the respondent submitted that the matter had since become infructuous. D. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE APPELLANT 23. Mr. Shyam Divan, the learned Senior Counsel appearing for the appellant submitted that the impugned notice of cancellation dated 07.02.2023 is manifestly arbitrary and tainted with extraneous considerations. He submitted that though the impugned notice purports to cancel the tender on the ground of being ambiguous and non-specific, but in reality the said action was at the behest of the concerned Minister-In-Charge who directed such cancellation without any justifiable cause. In this regard he placed strong reliance on the internal-file notings of the respondent. 24. He submitted that the reasons assigned for cancelling the tender in the impugned notice are not to be found in the entire file of notings maintained by the respondent. He further pointed out that the file of the internal notings indicate that, before the respondent could take a judicious call the concerned minister issued a specific direction on the basis of which the cancellation was undertaken & that to without any application of mind. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 555 Subodh Kumar Singh Rathour v. The Chief Executive Officer & Ors. 25. Mr. Divan also submitted that no s to stop the work could have been issued by the respondent on account of handing over of the maintenance to another authority, because even after the handover, the respondent continued to operate & maintain the underpasses including the licensing rights for advertisements. 26. He further submitted that, although the terms of the contract provided for assigning cogent grounds for termination, yet the same was not followed and instead the respondent arbitrarily proceeded to cancel the tender. 27. In the last, Mr Divan submitted that the contention as regards the financial losses being suffered is erroneous, as the respondent voluntarily accepted the bid that was submitted by the appellant, and even as per the notings in the file the tender was generating more revenue than earlier. E. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT 28. Mr. Rakesh Dwivedi, the learned Senior Counsel appearing for the respondent submitted that the present matter being purely a contractual dispute was rightly not entertained by the High Court in exercise of its writ jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution of India.