16.2. As regards the rights of the appellants, independent from that of Respondent No.5, are concerned, we are unable to believe that the appellants did not even verify the original allotment before purchase of the property to know the permissible use of the property and the factum of existence or otherwise of any approval in respect of the commercial building purchased by them. In this regard, the doctrine of Caveat Emptor would 1336 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports require the buyer to perform all acts within his capacity to ascertain the title of the seller and the defects in the property. Further, Sub-section (1) (a) of Section 55 of the Transfer of Property Act makes it clear when the buyer with ordinary care is not able to ascertain the material defect in the property or in the seller’s title, it becomes the duty of the seller to disclose the same though it is the primary responsibility is on the buyer to ascertain the defects in the property and the title. In the present case, it appears that neither the appellants as buyers nor the Respondent No. 5 as seller have performed their obligations under the law. Having said this, it is pertinent to mention here that some notices have also been issued after the appellants have come into occupation of the premises. Thus, the contention of the appellants that they were not put on notice and that the s are in violation of the principles of natural justice, is a fig leaf of a defence that can hardly have any basis in law. 17. The deed dated 06.10.2004 said to have been executed by the Respondent No.1 granting freehold right to the Respondent No.5 while simultaneously issuing notices against unauthorized constructions, does not inspire the confidence of this court. In any event the said grant is also subject to a condition that it shall be used for residential purpose and hence it cannot be treated as a licence to construct the shops without any sanction/approval. That apart, the registration of the property would not in any way amount to regularizing the unauthorized construction. The power to take action against an unauthorized construction is independent and not in anyway connected to the Registration Act. Seen from any angle the appellants cannot claim that the construction of shops was in accordance with law. 18. Notably, the High Court, in the impugned herein, clearly observed that the officials who are responsible for ensuring planned land development and for ensuring that no unauthorized/illegal constructions take place, themselves start colluding with the land mafias. A situation has been created, where the authority itself is forced to approach the High Court for a writ of mandamus to the district police to provide help in the matter of demolition of the unauthorized constructions, which have been raised within the jurisdictional territory of the authority concerned. Having held thus, [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1337 Rajendra Kumar Barjatya and Another v. U.P. Avas Evam Vikas Parishad & Ors. and also considering the stand of the Respondent Nos.5 and 6 that they have no objection for demolition of the unauthorized construction, the High Court passed the of demolition with direction to the authorities.