Therefore, clearly, there is no contradiction between Clauses 3, 11 and 15 of the PoA. To restate, Clause 15 of the PoA is an additional provision retaining authority for sale with the land- owners/principals themselves and the process whereof would also entail presentation for registration and admission of its execution. 30. We are of the considered opinion that all three clauses are capable of being construed in such a manner that they operate in their own fields and are not rendered nugatory. That apart, we are mindful that even if we had perceived a conflict between Clauses 3 and 11, on the one hand, and Clause 15 on the other, we would have to conclude that Clauses 3 and 11 would prevail over Clause 15 as when the same cannot be reconciled, the earlier clause(s) would prevail over the later clause(s), when construing a Deed or a Contract. Reference for such proposition is traceable to Forbes v Git, [1922] 1 AC 2564, as approvingly taken note of by a 3-Judge Bench of this Court in Radha Sundar Dutta v Mohd. Jahadur Rahim, AIR 1959 SC 24. However, we have been able, as noted above, to reconcile the three clauses in the current scenario. 4 ‘The principle of law to be applied may be stated in few words. If in a deed an earlier clause is fol- lowed by a later clause which destroys altogether the obligation created by the earlier clause, the later clause is to be rejected as repugnant and the earlier clause prevails. In this case the two clauses cannot be reconciled and the earlier provision in the deed prevails over the later. Thus, if A covenants to pay 100 and the deed subsequently provides that he shall not be liable under his covenant, that later provision is to be rejected as repugnant and void, for it altogether destroys the covenant. But if the later clause does not destroy but only qualifies the earlier, then the two are to be read together and effect is to be given to the intention of the parties as disclosed by the deed as a whole. …’ [2024] 1 S.C.R. 1177 Bharat Sher Singh Kalsia v. State of Bihar & Anr. 31. Another fact which cannot be lost sight of, is that it is apparent that the matter relates to a dispute among the co-sharers as the PoA- holder is the son of one of the co-sharers/principals namely Smt. Indumati R. V. Singh. 32. The PoA and its execution/registration not being in dispute, the only controversy relating to the Sale Deed executed by the PoA-holder in favour of the appellant in Dehradun for property located at Dehradun would thus, in the emerging factual matrix, clearly be an issue for the Courts at Dehradun to examine, much less give rise to any cause of action at Buxar. 33. We may add that this issue of jurisdiction is limited to the transaction of the execution of the Sale Deed in favour of the appellant, and not to any other controversy or dispute the land-owners/principals may have, either inter-se or against the PoA-holder.