(c) Violation of any provision of the Constitution of India. (d) Failure to conform to the statute under which it is made or exceeding the limits of authority conferred by the enabling Act. (e) Repugnancy to the laws of the land, that is, any enactment. (f) Manifest arbitrariness/unreasonableness (to an extent where the court might well say that the legislature never intended to give authority to make such rules) (emphasis supplied) 22. Of the six available grounds for challenging subordinate legislation, it is quite clear that the scope of the challenge raised in this petition is restricted to one ground in the instant case; that the Rule exceeds the limits of authority conferred by the enabling Act. Therefore, it becomes important to examine the scope of power available under the Act before we can adjudge whether the Rules exceed the limits of authority conferred by the enabling Act. 23. As we have noted earlier, the Rules, 2007, have been framed purportedly in exercise of the power conferred under Section 29A(2) (c) of the Act, which enables the Central Government to make rules regarding ‘the procedure of investigation under sub-section (4) of Section 21’. However, the enumerated heads set out in Section 29A(2) cannot be read as exhaustive since the legislature has deployed the expression ‘without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing provisions’ before enumerating the specific heads for exercising the rule-making power. In that sense, the power to make rules generally for carrying out the provisions of the Act is found in Section 29A(1). [2024] 2 S.C.R. 209 Naresh Chandra Agrawal v. The Institute of Chartered Accountants of India and Others Section 29A (2) is only an illustrative list of subjects with respect to which the Central Government may make rules. The illustrative list of subjects cannot limit the scope of general power available under the wider rule-making power found in Section 29A(1). 24. Experience of legislative drafting in India has shown that, generally, the delegation of power to formulate rules follows a standardized pattern within statutes. Typically, a section of the statute grants this authority in broad terms, using phrases like ‘to carry out the provisions of this Act’ or ‘to carry out the purposes of this Act.’ Subsequently, another sub-section details specific matters or areas for which the delegated power can be exercised, often employing language such as ‘in particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power.’ Judicial interpretation of such provisions underscores that the specific enumeration is illustrative and should not be construed as limiting the scope of the general power. This approach allows for flexibility in rulemaking, enabling the authorities to address unforeseen circumstances. A key principle emerges from this interpretation: even if specific topics are not explicitly listed in the statute, the formulation of rules can be justified if it falls within the general power conferred, provided it stays within the overall scope of the Act. This mode of interpretation has been categorised as the ‘generality versus enumeration’ principle in some precedents of this Court2.