31. One of the panch witnesses Pratap Tolaram Makhija was examined as PW-21 and in his deposition, he did not utter a single word regarding the accused having made any confessional/disclosure statement to PSI J.N. Choudhary(PW-22) when the memos (Exhibits-88 and 89) were prepared. 32. When PSI J.N. Chaudhary (PW-22) was examined, the prosecution did not even make an attempt to prove the confessional part of the communication (Exhibit-96) and rightly so in our opinion. 33. Even if it is assumed for the sake of arguments that A1 was present in the jeep owned by Bharatbhai (deceased), this fact in isolation cannot lead to an inference about culpability of the said accused for the offences of murder and dacoity. As per the admitted case of the prosecution, more than one person was present in the jeep, when the same was flagged down by PSI J.N. Chaudhary (PW-22). Thus, the possibility of the A1 (Laxmansing) travelling in the jeep as [2024] 2 S.C.R. 1193 Thakore Umedsing Nathusing v. State of Gujarat an innocent passenger cannot be ruled out. No other circumstance except for presence in the jeep was portrayed in the prosecution case so as to bring home the guilt of A1. 34. The prosecution pinned the identity of A2, A3, and A5 as the assailants on the basis of the disclosure statement (Exhibit-96) of A1. They were primarily convicted on the basis of the recoveries of knives and clothes. On going through the entire record, we find that these so called incriminating articles allegedly recovered at the instance of the accused were never sent to the Serology expert for comparison of the blood groups existing thereupon with the blood group of the deceased. 35. We have gone through the evidence of the concerned police officials associated with the recoveries and find their testimonies to be highly doubtful. The knife which was recovered at the instance of A3 was found from a nala which is a place open and accessible to all. The knife attributed to A4 was presented by one Shobhnaben wife of Kanji Chhara and thus it cannot be linked to A4. Thus, these recoveries in no manner can be treated to be incriminating in nature. In the case of Mustkeem alias Sirajudeen v. State of Rajasthan, reported in (2011) 11 SCC 724, this Court held that the solitary circumstance of recovery of blood-stained weapons cannot constitute such evidence which can be considered sufficient to convict an accused for the charge of murder. We thus find the recoveries to be highly doubtful and tainted. Even if it is assumed for a moment that such recoveries were effected, the same did not lead to any conclusive circumstance in form of Serological report establishing the presence of the same blood group as that of the deceased and hence they do not further the cause of prosecution. In addition thereto, we find that the prosecution failed to lead the link evidence mandatorily required to establish the factum of safe keeping of the muddamal articles and hence, the recoveries became irrelevant.