Section 3(ha) defines “reconnaissance operations” to mean any operation undertaken for preliminary prospecting of a mineral through regional, aerial, geophysical or geochemical surveys and geological mapping, but does not include pitting, trenching, drilling (except drilling of boreholes on a grid specified from time to time by the Central Government) or sub-surface excavation. 10.3 It is observed that the MMDR Act, 1957 specifies the twin purposes of the Act, namely, (1) the regulation of mines, and (2) the development of minerals, both under the control of the Union. Sections 4 to 10 of the Central Act form a group headed ‘General Restrictions on Undertaking Prospecting and Mining Operations’ and relate to the rules and regulations under which prospecting licences and mining leases might be granted; the period for which they may be granted or renewed; the royalties and fees that would be payable on them etc. The next group of Sections, namely, Sections 10 to 12 deal with the procedure for obtaining prospecting licences or mining leases in respect of land in which minerals vest in the Government. Sections 13 to 17 are grouped under a caption which reads - “Rules for regulating the grant of Prospecting Licences and Mining Leases”. Section 13 empowers the Central Government, by notification, [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1763 Mineral Area Development Authority & Anr. v. M/s Steel Authority of India & Anr. Etc. to make rules for regulating the grant of prospecting licences and mining leases in respect of minerals and for purposes connected therewith. Sub-section (2) specifies in particular the matters for which such rules may provide and among them is (i) the fixing and collection of fees for mineral concession, surface rent, security deposit, fines, other fees or charges and (ii) the time within which and the manner in which the dead rent or royalty shall be payable, and rules regarding prospecting licences and mining leases. 10.4 Section 18 deals with the mineral development. Section 18(1) states that it shall be the duty of the Central Government to take all such steps as may be necessary for the conservation and development of minerals in India and for that purpose the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make such rules as it thinks fit. Section 18(2) talks of rules providing for the development of mineral resources in any area. Section 25 provides for the recovery of any rent, royalty, tax or other sum due to the Government under this Act or the rules made thereunder and that they are to be recovered in the same manner as arrears of land revenue. 10.5 Section 9 of the MMDR Act, 1957 with which we are concerned deals with royalty while Section 9A deals with dead rent. The said provisions can be usefully extracted as under: “9. Royalties in respect of mining leases.―(1) The holder of a mining lease granted before the commencement of this Act shall, notwithstanding anything contained in the instrument of lease or in any law in force at such commencement, pay royalty in respect of any mineral removed or consumed by him or by his agent, manager, employee, contractor or sub-lessee from the leased area after such commencement, at the rate for the time being specified in the Second Schedule in respect of that mineral.