Accordingly, if CSS is payable by a distribution licensee, the deemed distribution licensee is equally liable to pay the same. This decision, in other words, equates deemed distribution licensee with the distribution licensee for the purpose of supply of electricity to the consumers. Sesa Sterlite Limited (supra) is not a decision for the proposition that deemed distribution licensee, to qualify as a deemed distribution licensee, must meet the criteria, including the capital requirements as applicable by regulations to a distribution licensee. 24. Further, the provisos to section 14 of the Electricity Act distinguish between entities that are ipso facto deemed distribution licensees and those that are merely declared as deemed licensees without clarity on the necessity of making an application to obtain a licence. For instance, the third and fourth provisos to section 14 not only confer the status of deemed licensees to the State Government and the Damodar Valley Corporation, respectively, but also explicitly exempt them from the requirement to obtain a licence. Entities not covered by these specific provisos would, therefore, be required to obtain a licence. The requirement of obtaining a license has to be read into the other provisos to section 14 since, for instance, the second and fifth provisos to section 14 grant deemed licensee status to Central/ State Transmission Utility and a government company, respectively, but neither specifies the requirement to obtain a license nor exempts them from obtaining license. 25. As far as the 2010 Notification is concerned, the proviso to section 14(b) introduced by the said Notification, confers deemed licensee status on SEZ developers. However, such conferment does not explicitly exclude the requirement of obtaining a licence. This lack of specificity, especially when compared with the clear provisions for 756 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports other entities, suggests that the legislative intent was not to ipso facto grant SEZ developers the status of deemed distribution licensees, thereby obliging them to obtain a licence by making an application in terms of regulation 13. TSERC is, therefore, empowered to scrutinise such applications in accordance with law, however, only limited to the provisions which are applicable to deemed licensees. Verification and acceptance recognise their status as deemed licensees. Issue (b): 26. Issue (b) revolves around rule 3(2) of the 2005 Rules, which per the TSERC and the APTEL, the appellant is bound to adhere by infusing additional capital in to qualify as a deemed licensee. While the appellant contends that the 2010 Notification, by necessary consequence, grants upon the appellant the status of a deemed licensee, the respondents submit that the identification of the appellant as a deemed distribution licensee is conditional upon the appellant satisfying the other requirements of the Electricity Act, specifically the sixth proviso to section 14 of the Electricity Act which provides for compliance with additional requirements like capital adequacy which as per the respondents includes rule 3 of the 2005 Rules read with regulation 12 of the 2013 Regulations. 27. It is contended by the respondents that the application of 2005 Rules to the appellant, a SEZ developer, stems from the sixth proviso to section 14 read with regulation 12 of the 2013 Regulations.