2. Whether the plaintiff proves that she belonged to the Kalasammanavar family, and her ancestors Chinmayappa and Mallappa are own brothers? 3. Whether the plaintiff proves that the defendants are interfering with the peaceful possession and enjoyment of the suit schedule properties of the plaintiff. 4. Whether the defendants prove that Jamani Mallavva has consented to change the Khatha in the name of defendant No.2 in respect of the suit properties? 5. Whether the defendants prove that the suit is not maintainable without seeking the relief of possession by the plaintiff? 6. Whether the defendants prove that they are in lawful possession and enjoyment of the suit schedule properties? 7. Whether the defendants prove that the Court fee paid by the plaintiff is insufficient? 8. Whether the plaintiff is entitled for the relief as sought for? 9. What or decree? 1888 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports c. The trial court answered the issue No. 1 referred to above partly in affirmative and issue Nos. 2, 4, 5 and 6 respectively in the affirmative. The issue Nos. 3 and 7 respectively were answered in the negative. The trial court accordingly dismissed the suit with costs of Rs. 5, 000. d. Before the original plaintiff could file First Appeal, she passed away. In such circumstances referred to above, her legal heirs i.e., the respondents herein preferred Regular First Appeal No. 80 of 2018 in the Court of Sr. Civil Judge, Hoovina Hadagali seeking to challenge the and decree passed by the trial court in Original Suit No. 67 of 2011 referred to above. e. The First Appellate Court framed the following points for determination: "1. Whether the appellants/ plaintiff proved that they belong to Kalasammanavara family thereby they became the absolute owners of the suit property by virtue of inheritance? 2. Whether the impugned and decree is capricious, perverse, illegal and calls the interference by this court? 3. Whether the claim of the plaintiff is barred under law of limitation?” f. The First Appellate Court answered the points of determination referred to above as under: “Point no.1: In affirmative, Point no.2: Partly in affirmative, Point no.3: In the negative, Point no.4: As per final for the following..” g. It is pertinent to note that before the First Appellate Court the appellants herein as defendants had filed cross-objection challenging the findings recorded by the trial court on the issue Nos. 1 and 2 respectively referred to above. [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1889 Mallavva and Anr. v. Kalsammanavara Kalamma (Since Dead) by Legal Heirs & Ors. h. It also appears that in the First Appeal filed by the legal heirs of the original plaintiffs an application for amendment of plaint was filed wherein, the plaintiffs prayed for possession of the suit property. The application seeking amendment of plaint filed by the legal heirs of the original plaintiff came to be allowed by the First Appellate Court and the plaint was accordingly amended. i. The passed by the First Appellate Court allowing the amendment application reads thus: “11.