20. It is pertinent to note that the Ministry of Consumer Affairs has enclosed with its affidavit, Notification dated 09th June, 2022, setting out the Guidelines for Prevention of Misleading Advertisements and Endorsements of Misleading Advertisements, 202210 that deals with prohibition of surrogate advertising, free claims advertisements, children targeted advertisements, and advertisements that are prohibited by law. Guidelines, 2022 specifically define amongst others, the expression “bait advertisements”, “endorser” and “surrogate advertising”. A status report of the action taken by the Central Authority on false and misleading advertisements including food and health products finds mention at Annexure R-4 and shows that from July, 2020 to April, 2024, the total notices issued by the Central Authority for misleading advertisements is 163. Out of the said 163 notices, 58 were closed and the remaining 105 are stated to be under process. 9 In short, Central Authority 10 In short, Guidelines, 2022 386 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Not much light has been thrown on the nature of action taken and the activities of the Authority which is empowered to take even suo moto action, whenever false/misleading advertisements are noticed. The Ministry of Consumer Affairs is directed to file an additional affidavit setting out the action taken by the Central Authority on noticing/ being informed of false/misleading advertisements, particularly in the food and health sector. 21. We are of the firm view that advertisers/advertising agencies and endorsers are equally responsible for issuing false and misleading advertisements. Such endorsements that are routinely made by public figures, influencers, celebrities etc. go a long way in promoting a product. It is imperative for them to act with a sense of responsibility when endorsing any product and take responsibility for the same, as reflected in Guideline No.8 of the Guidelines, 2022 that relates to advertisements that address/target or use children for various purposes and Guideline No.12 that lays down the duties of manufacturers, service providers, advertisers and advertising agencies to ensure that the trust of the consumer is not abused or exploited due to sheer lack of knowledge or inexperience. Guideline No.13 requires a due diligence to be undertaken for endorsement of advertisements and requires a person who endorses a product to have adequate information about, or experience with a specific good, product or service that is proposed to be endorsed and ensure that it must not be deceptive. 22. All the aforesaid provisions including statutory provisions/rules, regulations and guidelines have a salutary object, which is to serve the consumers and ensure that they are made aware of the kind of product that is being offered for purchase, particularly in the food and health sector. We are of the opinion that the aforesaid Ministries ought to set up and promote a mechanism which encourages the consumer to lodge a complaint and for the said complaint to be taken to its logical conclusion, instead of simply being marked/forwarded to the concerned State authority, thus leaving the consumer clueless as to the final outcome of the complaint made.