Mr. Hansaria, placed considerable reliance on the decision of this Court in Kavita Khamboj(supra), where a three-judge bench of this Court while upholding the prescription of minimum 50% marks in interview for promotion as District Judges, observed that the rules can be supplemented to fill in the gaps. However, it particularly distinguishes the instances 896 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports where the Rules specifically provide for the mode of evaluation. In this regard, it is noteworthy that the Supreme Court speaking through DY Chandrachud CJI, itself notes that the matter would have been entirely different if the Rules specifically provided that the final merit list would be on the basis of aggregate marks: “52. Moreover, the Rules in the present case are entirely silent in regard to the prescription of a minimum eligibility for clearing a competitive test, on the one hand, and the viva voce, on the other hand. If the Rules were to specifically provide in a given case that the criterion for eligibility would be on the combined marks of both the written test and the viva voce, the matter would have been entirely different. [P.K. Ramachandra Iyer v. Union of India, (1984) 2 SCC 141, para 44 : 1984 SCC (L&S) 214] Rule 6(1)(a) and Rule 8 being silent as regards the manner in which merit and suitability would be determined, administrative instructions can supplement the Rules in that regard. This is not a case where the Rules have made a specific provision in which event the administrative instructions cannot transgress a rule which is being made in pursuance of the power conferred under Article 309 of the Constitution. For instance, if the Rules were to provide that there would be a minimum eligibility requirement only in the written test, conceivably, it may not be open to prescribe a minimum eligibility requirement in the viva voce by an administrative instruction. Similarly, if the Rules were to provide that the eligibility cut-off would be taken on the basis of the overall marks which are obtained in both the written test and the viva voce, conceivably, it would not be open to the administrative instructions to modify the terms.” [emphasis supplied] 24. In the present case, the Resolution (12.1.2015) prescribing qualifying marks for viva voce is not a case of supplementing the rules but appears to us as a case where the Rules pertaining to the final selection of candidates, have been substituted. Therefore, the decision in Kavita Khamboj(supra) is clearly distinguishable. 25. On the other hand, the decision in Sivanandan C.T. (supra), is squarely applicable to the facts of the present case. In that case, the [2024] 8 S.C.R. 897 Salam Samarjeet Singh v. The High Court of Manipur at Imphal & Anr Court held that the Kerala High Court erred in fixing the minimum cut-off contrary to Rule 2(c)(iii) of Kerala State Higher Judicial Service Special Rules,1961 which provided that the aggregate of the written test and the viva voce would be taken into consideration for appointment.