It was also contended that the impugned Act stood repealed to the extent that it had been repealed by Section 16 of Act 10 of 1955 and by clause (7) of the Sugarcane (Control) , 1955, made in exercise of the powers conferred by Section 3 of Act 10 of 1955 (a Central Act). 17.3 It was observed that even if it was assumed that sugarcane was an article or class of articles relatable to the sugar industry within the meaning of Section 18G of the IDRA, since no was issued by the Central Government in exercise of the powers vested in it under that section, no question of repugnancy could ever arise because repugnancy must exist in fact and not depend merely on a possibility. The possibility of an under Section 18G being issued by the Central Government would not be enough. The existence of such an would be an essential prerequisite before any repugnancy could ever arise. 17.4 Without going into the other aspects of the case, in my view, this Court was not right in holding that since no was issued by the Central Government under Section 18G of the IDRA, the legislative field was open to both the Central as well as the State Governments to take action. That portion of the in Tika Ramji in my view is not correct. 17.5 The s of this Court including that of the Constitution Bench in Tika Ramji; Indian Aluminium company Limited vs. Karnataka Electricity Board (1992) 3 SCC 580 (“Indian Aluminium company”); Shree Krishna Gyanoday Sugar Ltd.; Belsund Sugar Co. Ltd. vs. State of Bihar (1999) 9 SCC 620 (“Belsund Sugar Co. Ltd.”) and SIEL Ltd. vs. Union of India (1998) 7 SCC 26 (“SIEL Ltd.”) have lost sight of the fact that when a notified is issued under Section 18G of the IDRA it is pursuant to a Central enactment made by virtue of Entry 52 – List I and it is not an exercise of power under Entry 33(a) – List III. When once Section 18G has been 2160 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports inserted to the IDRA in respect of a scheduled industry, the control being taken over by the Union in respect of the very same scheduled industry, legislative competence cannot remain with the State Legislature also under Entry 33(a) – List III in respect of the aspects or field covered under Section 18G of IDRA which is a Parliamentary enactment. 18. There is another angle to the matter. Article 254 in the normal course would apply when there is a direct conflict between the laws made by the Parliament and the State Legislature under an Entry in the Concurrent List. But in the instant case, it can also be held that the conflict is not between a law or an action taken by the Parliament or the Central Government under Entry 33(a) – List III versus a State law that could be made or action taken under the very same Entry.