The assailants forcibly entered and surrounding Tillu, Dhamma (Appellant) inflicted a knife blow to Tillu’s abdomen, while Asgar also stabbed him near the navel. Additionally, the other accused engaged in physical assault using sticks, lathis, and fists. When Tularam attempted to intervene, Katchu and Ahmad struck him with sticks, inflicting injuries to his head, hands, and body. Tularam noted that Lallu (P.W.11) and one Ramesh were eyewitnesses to the incident. 10. Tularam too passed away approximately five days after undergoing surgery in Hamidia Hospital. Dr. Neelam Srivastava (P.W.15) conducted his post-mortem examination, concluding that the cause of death was cardio-respiratory failure resulting from a head injury. Moreover, the severity of the injury was such that it could have led to death under normal circumstances. This injury, deemed homicidal, was inflicted by hard, blunt, and heavy objects. 11. During the course of investigation, the Investigating Officer (P.W. 14), following a disclosure statement (Ex.P.14) made by the Appellant, recovered a knife, which the Appellant had concealed in Barrack No. 2 of Police Line Nehru Nagar. Lallu Vishwakarma (P.W.11) was a witness to this recovery. The knife was then submitted for forensic examination (Ex.P.39), where the human blood on the knife was detected but the blood group classification was inconclusive. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 227 Dharmendra Kumar @ Dhamma v. State of Madhya Pradesh 12. After the investigation, all the accused persons, including the Appellant, were charged under Sections 147, 148, 302/149, 307/149 of IPC. 13. In the trial, the prosecution examined as many as 15 witnesses to bring the guilt home, including Usha Bai, P.W.10 (Complainant) and Lallu Vishwakarma, P.W.11, both eyewitnesses. The prosecution case is largely based upon the version of these two eyewitnesses, who claimed that the fatal blows were caused to the victims in front of them. 14. The Trial Court, having found the version of the two eyewitnesses (P.W.10 and P.W.11) to be trustworthy, which was duly corroborated by the testimony of the Investigating Officer (P.W.14), the medical evidence and the recovery of the weapon, held the Appellant guilty of offences under Sections 302, 147, 148, and 149 of IPC and sentenced him to undergo life imprisonment. 15. The High Court, vide the impugned , upheld the Appellant’s conviction under Section 302 read with Section 34 of the IPC, though it has acquitted him under Sections 147 and 148 of the IPC. The High Court has held that: (i) The presence of the Appellant stood established through the testimony of Lallu Vishwakarma (P.W.11), and his cross-examination further confirms that there was no motive for falsely incriminating the Appellant; (ii) The allegations against the Appellant, as detailed by eyewitnesses Usha Bai (P.W.10) and Lallu Vishwakarma (P.W.11), were duly corroborated by the medical opinions of Dr. C.S. Jain (P.W.13) and Dr. Neelam Shrivastava (P.W.15); (iii) The statement given by deceased Tularam, as recorded by P.W.14, aligns with other evidence relied upon for conviction; (iv) The weapon (knife) was seized based on the disclosure statement of the Appellant, making the recovery admissible under Section 27 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (hereinafter, ‘IEA’); and (v) the testimony of Investigating Officer, P.W.14, also corroborated the weapon’s seizure.