Change 111 (1992) at p. 123]. This is often termed as a reversal of the burden of proof, because otherwise in environmental cases, those opposing the change would be compelled to shoulder the evidentiary burden, a procedure which is not fair. Therefore, it is necessary that the party 126 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports attempting to preserve the status quo by maintaining a less polluted state should not carry the burden of proof and the party who wants to alter it, must bear this burden. [See James M. Olson: “Shifting the Burden of Proof”, 20 Envtl. Law, p. 891 at p. 898 (1990).] [Quoted in Vol. 22 (1998), Harv. Env. Law Review, p. 509 at pp. 519, 550.] xxx xxx xxx 39. It is also explained that if the environmental risks being run by regulatory inaction are in some way “uncertain but non- negligible”, then regulatory action is justified. This will lead to the question as to what is the “non-negligible risk”. In such a situation, the burden of proof is to be placed on those attempting to alter the status quo. They are to discharge this burden by showing the absence of a “reasonable ecological or medical concern”. That is the required standard of proof. The result would be that if insufficient evidence is presented by them to alleviate concern about the level of uncertainty, then the presumption should operate in favour of environmental protection. Such a presumption has been applied in Ashburton Acclimatisation Society v. Federated Farmers of New Zealand [(1988) 1 NZLR 78] . The required standard now is that the risk of harm to the environment or to human health is to be decided in public interest, according to a “reasonable persons” test. [See Charmian Barton: Precautionary Principle in Australia (Vol. 22) (1998) Harv. Env. L. Rev., p. 509 at p. 549. ]” (emphasis supplied) Approach of the Court: High Degree of Judicial Scrutiny on Any Action of Government ● Intellectuals Forum v. State of A.P., (2006) 3 SCC 549 “Public trust doctrine 76. The Supreme Court of California, in National Audubon Society v. Superior Court of Alpine Country [33 Cali 419] also known as Mono Lake case [33 Cali 419] summed up the substance of the doctrine. The Court said: [2024] 5 S.C.R. 127 The State of Telangana & Ors. v. Mohd. Abdul Qasim (Died) Per LRs. “Thus the public trust is more than an affirmation of State power to use public property for public purposes. It is an affirmation of the duty of the State to protect the people’s common heritage of streams, lakes, marshlands and tidelands, surrendering the right only in those rare cases when the abandonment of the right is consistent with the purposes of the trust.” This is an articulation of the doctrine from the angle of the affirmative duties of the State with regard to public trust. Formulated from a negatory angle, the doctrine does not exactly prohibit the alienation of the property held as a public trust.