31 Section 21, IBC. 32 “RP” 1830 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports to the IRP, the declaration of the moratorium, and the collation of the claims against the corporate debtor. Therefore, the proceedings now change character – they become in rem and are no longer the preserve of only the applicant creditor and the corporate debtor and even creditors who were not the original applicants, become necessary stakeholders. 43. A three-judge Bench of this Court in Indus Biotech (P) Ltd. v. Kotak India Venture (Offshore) Fund33 adjudicated on the question of the stage at which the proceedings under the IBC attain the status of in rem and create third-party rights for all creditors. This Court held that the trigger point is not the filing of the application, but the admission of the application, and observed as follows: “17. The procedure contemplated will indicate that before the adjudicating authority is satisfied as to whether the default has occurred or not, in addition to the material placed by the financial creditor, the corporate debtor is entitled to point out that the default has not occurred and that the debt is not due, consequently to satisfy the adjudicating authority that there is no default. In such exercise undertaken by the adjudicating authority if it is found that there is default, the process as contemplated under sub-section (5) of Section 7 of IB Code is to be followed as provided under sub-section (5)(a); or if there is no default the adjudicating authority shall reject the application as provided under sub-section (5)(b) to Section 7 of IB Code. In that circumstance if the finding of default is recorded and the adjudicating authority proceeds to admit the application, the corporate insolvency resolution process commences as provided under sub- section (6) and is required to be processed further. In such event, it becomes a proceeding in rem on the date of admission and from that point onwards the matter would not be arbitrable. The only course to be followed thereafter is the resolution process under IB Code. Therefore, the trigger point is not the filing of the application under Section 7 of IB Code but admission of the same on determining default. 33 [2021] 7 SCR 112 : (2021) 6 SCC 436 [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1831 GLAS Trust Company LLC v. BYJU Raveendran & Ors. 26. […] On admission, third-party right is created in all the creditors of the corporate debtors and will have erga omnes effect. The mere filing of the petition and its pendency before admission, therefore, cannot be construed as the triggering of a proceeding in rem. Hence, the admission of the petition for consideration of the corporate insolvency resolution process is the relevant stage which would decide the status and the nature of the pendency of the proceedings and the mere filing cannot be taken as the triggering of the insolvency process.” 44. In summary, the scheme of the IBC under Chapter II gives rise to two significant principles: a. Once the petition is admitted, the proceedings are no longer the preserve of the applicant creditor and the debtor.