We are of the view that the direction of reduction of capacity from 1000 mw to 500 mw by the State Commission was correctly set aside. Since L-1 to L-5 were represented before this Court, we direct that they shall be entitled to supply of power in terms of the originally offered amount, mentioned above, in accordance with para 3.5 of the Request for Proposal. The power supply will now be reduced to a total of 906 mw. The State Commission may now go into the issue of approval for adoption of tariff with regard to L-4 and L-5. All Letters of Intent (LOIs) shall stand modified in terms of the above. All the appeals shall stand disposed of in terms of the above .” 49. Consequent to the s passed by this Court, the State Commission vide its dated 29th May 2018, directed RVPN/DISCOMS to file an appropriate application/petition in relation to L-3, L-4 and L-5 bidders. 50. RVPN accordingly filed an application on 27th August 2018 before the State Commission, submitting therein that the tariff of L-4 and L-5 bidders was very high and not aligned to market prices and, therefore, sought not to be adopted in terms of the competitive bidding guidelines and documents. 51. In the meantime, a Contempt Petition came to be filed before this Court by SKS Power. This Court vide dated 20th September 2018, in the said Contempt Petition, issued the following directions: “We are of the view that there is no doubt whatsoever that now the PPA has to be signed between the parties. However, the State Commission, may, as per our , go into the issue of approval of adoption of tariff with regard to L-5, who is the party before us, and will decide the same within a period of six weeks from today. [2024] 1 S.C.R. 941 Jaipur Vidyut Vitran Nigam Ltd. & Ors. v. MB Power (Madhya Pradesh) Limited & Ors. PPA is to be signed immediately thereafter.” [emphasis supplied] 52. Thereafter, SKS Power filed an Interlocutory Application on 5th October 2018, praying for adoption of its tariff as per the s of this Court dated 25th April 2018 and 20th September 2018. 53. It was contended before the State Commission by SKS Power that the State Commission was bound to adopt tariff as quoted by it. However, per contra, it was contended by the RVPN and DISCOMS that since the tariff quoted by SKS Power was not market aligned, it could not be adopted. In view of the counter submission, the State Commission vide its dated 16th October 2018, gave an opportunity to the RVPN to file an amended application or seek direction on the issue from this Court. 54. Accordingly, RVPN filed a Miscellaneous Application before this Court. This Court vide dated 19th November 2018, passed the following : “Having heard learned counsels for both the parties, we only clarify that the Rajasthan Electricity Regulatory Commission [the State Commission) is to decide the tariff under-Section 63 of the Electricity Act, 2003 having regard to the law laid down both statutorily and by this Court.