Digital Supreme Court Reports Section 9 of the Sentencing Act, 2002 “9 Aggravating and mitigating factors (1) In sentencing or otherwise dealing with an offender the court must take into account the following aggravating factors to the extent that they are applicable in the case: xxx xxx xxx (2) In sentencing or otherwise dealing with an offender the court must take into account the following mitigating factors to the extent that they are applicable in the case: xxx xxx xxx (3) Despite subsection (2)(e), the court must not take into account by way of mitigation the fact that the offender was, at the time of committing the offence, affected by the voluntary consumption or use of alcohol or any drug or other substance (other than a drug or other substance used for bona fide medical purposes). xxx xxx xxx (4) Nothing in subsection (1) or subsection (2)— (a) prevents the court from taking into account any other aggravating or mitigating factor that the court thinks fit; or (b) implies that a factor referred to in those subsections must be given greater weight than any other factor that the court might take into account.” Section 9A of the Sentencing Act, 2002 “9A Cases involving violence against, or neglect of, child under 14 years (1) This section applies if the court is sentencing or otherwise dealing with an offender in a case involving violence against, or neglect of, a child under the age of 14 years. (2) The court must take into account the following aggravating factors to the extent that they are applicable in the case: [2024] 5 S.C.R. 699 Sunita Devi v. The State of Bihar & Anr. (a) the defencelessness of the victim: (b) in relation to any harm resulting from the offence, any serious or long-term physical or psychological effect on the victim: (c) the magnitude of the breach of any relationship of trust between the victim and the offender: (d) threats by the offender to prevent the victim reporting the offending: (e) deliberate concealment of the offending from authorities. (3) The factors in subsection (2) are in addition to any factors the court might take into account under section 9. (4) Nothing in this section implies that a factor referred to in subsection (2) must be given greater weight than any other factor that the court might take into account.” (emphasis supplied) Section 24 of the Sentencing Act, 2002 “24 Proof of facts (1) In determining a sentence or other disposition of the case, a court— (a) may accept as proved any fact that was disclosed by evidence at the trial and any facts agreed on by the prosecutor and the offender; and (b) must accept as proved all facts, express or implied, that are essential to a plea of guilty or a finding of guilt. (2) If a fact that is relevant to the determination of a sentence or other disposition of the case is asserted by one party and disputed by the other,— (a) the court must indicate to the parties the weight that it would be likely to attach to the disputed fact if it were found to exist, 700 [2024] 5 S.C.R.