12. As per XLI Rule 25, the appellate court may, if necessary, frame issues and refer the same for trial to the court whose decree is appealed from, and direct such court to take additional evidence required. Further, as per Rule-27 XLI, the Appellate Court may allow evidence or document to be produced or witness examined, in the circumstances stated therein, after recording the reasons for such admission of evidence. However, the Appellate Court can not create a new case for the party, frame the issues and decide the issues without following the procedure contemplated under XLI of CPC. 13. In the instant case, the High Court in the second appeal had framed one substantial question of law on 16-3-2007, and framed two another substantial questions of law on 5-2-2015 and one more substantial question of law in 2015. Thus, in all framed four additional questions of law. 14. Apart from the fact that none of the said substantial questions of law formulated by the High Court were either raised before the trial court or the appellate court, none of parties was given any opportunity of 732 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports leading the evidence on the said issues. It is well-settled principle of law that the Court cannot create any new case at the appellate stage for either of the parties, and the appellate court is supposed to decide the issues involved in the suit based on the pleadings of the parties. 15. In view of the above, without examining the merits of the case, we deem it appropriate to set aside the impugned and decree passed by the High Court in the Second Appeal, and remand the same to the High Court for deciding the same afresh and in accordance with law. While deciding the Second Appeal afresh, the High Court may reconsider the substantial questions of law framed by it earlier and decide the same in accordance with law. 16. Accordingly, the impugned and decree passed by the High Court is set aside and the Appeal stands allowed accordingly. 17. Since the decree was passed by the trial court in 2004, the High Court is requested to decide the Second Appeal as expeditiously as possible. 18. It is directed that till the Second Appeal is decided by the High Court, both the parties shall maintain status-quo as regards to the possession of the suit land. Result of the case: Appeal allowed. †Headnotes prepared by: Nidhi Jain