Now, since the successors of the defendants have stopped rendering services as claimed by the plaintiffs, the gift is being revoked. This was the precise claim set up in the plaint. A banal written statement was filed by the defendants where it was admitted that their forefathers were donated this property by the forefathers of the plaintiffs and they 704 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports had a permanent interest in the property, they are its absolute owners. Moreover, they have continued to render “all kinds of services” to the plaintiffs and their successors and therefore, there is no question of property being now revoked in favour of the plaintiffs as no condition of the gift deed has been breached by them. 14. Now admittedly, the TPA which is of the year 1882 and came to be enforced on 01st July, 1882 was not applicable to all parts of India. For our convenience, it must be stated that it was not in force in the State of Punjab (including the present territory of Haryana) in the year 1953 when the gift deed was executed. Nevertheless, the TPA itself is a codification of broad principles which were applicable at the relevant point of time, relating to transfer of property, though after codification it also has some new provisions, such as registration of gift deed etc. The TPA was not applicable to Punjab but, as discussed earlier and also held by this Court in various cases, the broad principles in TPA based on equity, justice and good conscience, would definitely be applicable. (See: Shivshankara v. H.P. Vedavyasa Char, 2023 SCC OnLine SC 358 & Chander Bhan v. Mukhtiar Singh, 2024 SCC OnLine SC 761) One of such principles in TPA based on equity, justice and good conscience is the definition of gift itself which is contained in Section 122 of TPA and reads as under: Section 122. “Gift” defined.—“Gift” is the transfer of certain existing moveable or immoveable property made voluntarily and without consideration, by one person, called the donor, to another, called the donee, and accepted by or on behalf of the donee. Acceptance when to be made.—Such acceptance must be made during the lifetime of the donor and while he is still capable of giving. If the donee dies before acceptance, the gift is void. 15. Now all conditions for a valid gift deed were in existence when it was made on 13.12.1953. The subject matter of transfer was an immovable property (land), and it was without any consideration. There was also an acceptance of this gift deed by the donees, when the donor was alive, as possession of this land was given the very same day to the donees and this undisputed fact is on record. [2024] 12 S.C.R. 705 Smt. Naresh Kumari & Ors. v. Smt. Chameli & Ors. Another important factor which must be kept in mind is that in a case of gift of land, possession has an extremely important bearing. Although, after the enforcement of TPA, registration became essential in a gift of immoveable property as the transfer will now be seen in terms of Section 123 of TPA, which is as follows: Section 123.