75. This Court including many of the High Courts have had the occasion of interpreting Section 22(1) of the 1985 Act. One of the earliest decisions concerning Section 22(1) was rendered by a two-Judge Bench of this Court in Gram Panchayat and Another v. Shree Vallabh Glass Works Limited and Others reported in (1990) 2 SCC 440. In the said case, while deciding an appeal against the decision of the Bombay High Court quashing recovery proceedings towards property taxes and other amounts due under the provisions of the Bombay Village Panchayat Act, 1959 against the respondent company therein, which had been declared to be a sick company under the Act, the Bench held: “5. The question is whether the Panchayat could not recover the amount due to it from out of the properties of the sick industrial company without the consent of the Board? xxx xxx xxx 7. Section 22(1) provides that in case the enquiry under Section 16 is pending or any scheme referred to under Section 17 is under preparation or consideration by the Board or any appeal under Section 25 is pending then certain proceedings against the sick industrial company are to be suspended or presumed to be suspended. [2024] 5 S.C.R. 351 Fertilizer Corporation of India Limited & Ors. v. M/s Coromandal Sacks Private Limited The nature of the proceedings which are automatically suspended are: (1) Winding up of the industrial company; (2) Proceedings for execution, distress or the like against the properties of sick industrial company; and (3) Proceedings for the appointment of receiver. The proceedings in respect of these matters could, however, be continued against the sick industrial company with the consent or approval of the Board or of the appellate authority as the case may be. xxx xxx xxx 10. In the light of the steps taken by the Board under Sections 16 and 17 of the Act, no proceedings for execution, distress or the like proceedings against any of the properties of the company shall lie or be proceeded further except with the consent of the Board. Indeed, there would be automatic suspension of such proceedings against the company’s properties. As soon as the inquiry under Section 16 is ed by the Board, the various proceedings set out under sub-section (1) of Section 22 would be deemed to have been suspended. 11. It may be against the principles of equity if the creditors are not allowed to recover their dues from the company, but such creditors may approach the Board for permission to proceed against the company for the recovery of their dues/outstandings/overdues or arrears by whatever name it is called. The Board at its discretion may accord its approval for proceeding against the company. If the approval is not granted, the remedy is not extinguished. It is only postponed. Sub-section (5) of Section 22 provides for exclusion of the period during which the remedy is suspended while computing the period of limitation for recovering the dues. 12. In our opinion, the High Court was justified in quashing the recovery proceedings taken against the properties of the company and we accordingly, reject this petition, with no as to costs.” (Emphasis supplied) 352 [2024] 5 S.C.R.