955 Kiran Jyot Maini v. Anish Pramod Patel had put forth a demand of Rs. 5 to 7 Crores as one-time settlement which would cover her maintenance expenses and necessary requirements. On the other hand, the respondent-husband expressed his willingness to pay only Rs. 50 Lakhs towards permanent alimony, submitting that the appellant is employed, has several assets, and that he has no obligation to maintain her daughter as he never adopted her. 32. It is not in dispute that the respondent has the legal obligation as also the financial capacity to maintain his wife after dissolution of marriage. It is also necessary to ensure that the award of maintenance or permanent alimony should not be penal but should be for the purposes of ensuring a decent living standard for the appellant wife. Considering the material on record, the factors stated above, the considerations noted herein, and the arguments advanced by the learned senior counsel on both sides, this Court is of the opinion that the demand made by the appellant is exceptionally high but, at the same time, the amount offered by the respondent is insufficient in the broader rubric of maintenance considerations. 33. Keeping in view the totality of the circumstances, the social and financial status of the parties, their current employments as well as future prospects, standards of living, and their obligations, liabilities, and other expenses, a one-time settlement amount of Rs. 2 Crores would be a balanced and fair amount. This amount would also cover all pending and future claims. Thus, we fix the said amount as permanent alimony to be paid by the respondent to the appellant within a period of four months. 34. Consequently, the appeals are allowed, the s and s of the courts below are set aside, any pending cases be disposed of accordingly, and the decree of divorce be granted in exercise of this Court’s power under Article 142 of the Constitution of India. Further, the respondent-husband shall pay Rs. 2 Crores towards permanent alimony to the appellant-wife within the time stipulated above. Parties would be at liberty to file certified copies of this before the respective Courts where the cases, both civil and criminal, are pending whereupon the Court concerned shall pass appropriate s closing such proceedings. 35. No as to costs. 956 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports CRL. APPEAL NOS……………….@SLP(CRL.) NOS-1168-1171 OF 2024: 36. Leave granted. 37. These appeals are also disposed of in similar terms/directions/ observations, as above. Result of the case: Appeals allowed. †Headnotes prepared by: Divya Pandey