The principles enunciated in Sarguja Transport (supra) were extended to Special Leave Petitions filed before this Court by a two-Judge Bench of this Court in Upadhyay & Co. v. State of U.P. and Others reported in (1999) 1 SCC 81. It was observed by the bench thus: 11. […] It is not a permissible practice to challenge the same over again after withdrawing the special leave petition without obtaining permission of the court for withdrawing it with liberty to move for special leave again subsequently. xxx xxx xxx 13. The aforesaid ban for filing a fresh suit is based on public policy. This Court has made the said rule of public policy applicable to jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution (Sarguja Transport Service v. STAT [(1987) 1 SCC 5). The reasoning for adopting it in writ jurisdiction is that very often it happens, when the petitioner or his counsel finds that the court is not likely to pass an [2024] 12 S.C.R. 169 M/s HPCL Bio-Fuels Ltd. v. M/s Shahaji Bhanudas Bhad admitting the writ petition after it is heard for some time, that a request is made by the petitioner or his counsel to permit him to withdraw it without seeking permission to institute a fresh writ petition. A court which is unwilling to admit the petition would not ordinarily grant liberty to file a fresh petition while it may just agree to permit withdrawal of the petition. When once a writ petition filed in a High Court is withdrawn by the party concerned, he is precluded from filing an appeal against the passed in the writ petition because he cannot be considered as a party aggrieved by the passed by the High Court. If so, he cannot file a fresh petition for the same cause once again. […] xxx xxx xxx 15. We have no doubt that the above rule of public policy, for the very same reasoning, should apply to special leave petitions filed under Article 136 of the Constitution also. […]” (Emphasis supplied) 49. The respondent has relied upon the decision of this Court in Sarva Shramik Sanghatana (supra) to contend that the principles underlying 23 Rule 1 of the CPC cannot be applied as a matter of fact in every legal proceeding. In the said case, an application seeking permission for closure under Section 25-O(1) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 had been filed by the respondent Company therein. However, before the application could be decided, the Company received a letter from the Deputy Commissioner of Labour, Mumbai inviting it to a meeting for exploring the possibility of an amicable settlement. The Company withdrew its application in lieu of the invite and Section 25-O(3) which provides that an application made under Section 25-O(1) will be deemed to have been allowed if it is not decided within a period of 60 days from the date of filing. However, after the attempts for an amicable settlement failed, the Company moved a fresh application under Section 25-O(1).