122. Recently, in Neeraj Dutta v. State (NCT of Delhi)60 a Constitution Bench listed out the constituent elements of the offence of bribery under Section 7 of the PC Act (as it stood before the amendment in 2017). Justice BV Nagarathna formulated the elements to constitute the offence: “5. The following are the ingredients of Section 7 of the Act: (i) the accused must be a public servant or expecting to be a public servant; (ii) he should accept or obtain or agrees to accept or attempts to obtain from any person; (iii) for himself or for any other person; (iv) any gratification other than legal remuneration; and (v) as a motive or reward for doing or forbearing to do any official act or to show any favour or disfavour.” Consequently, the actual “doing or forbearing to do” the official act is not a constituent part of the offence. All that is required is that the illegal gratification should be obtained as a “motive or reward” for such an action or omission – whether it is actually carried out or not is irrelevant. 59 [1976] 3 SCR 1052 : (1976) 3 SCC 46 60 [2023] 2 SCR 997 : (2023) 4 SCC 731 542 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 123. During the course of the hearing, a hypothetical question arose in this regard. What happens in a situation when the bribe is exchanged within the precincts of the legislature? Would the offence now fall within the ambit of parliamentary privilege? This question appears to be ill-conceived. When this Court holds that the offence of bribery is complete on the acceptance or attempt to accept undue advantage and is not dependent on the speech or vote, it automatically pushes the offence outside the ambit of Articles 105(2) and 194(2). This is not because the acceptance of undue advantage happened outside the legislature but because the offence is independent of the “vote or speech” protected by Articles 105(2) and 194(2). The remit of parliamentary privilege is intricately linked to the nexus of the act to the ‘vote’ or ‘speech’ and the transaction of parliamentary business. 124. The majority in PV Narasimha Rao (supra) did not delve into when the offence of bribery is complete or the constituent elements of the offence. However, on the facts of the case, the majority held that those MPs who voted as agreed were covered by the immunity, while those who did not vote at all (Ajit Singh) were not covered by the immunity under Articles 105(2) and 194(2). This erroneously links the offence of bribery to the performance of the act. In fact, in the impugned as well, the High Court has relied on this position to hold that the appellant is not covered by the immunity as she eventually did not vote as agreed on and voted for the candidate from her party. 125. The understanding of the law in the of the majority in PV Narasimha Rao (supra) creates an artificial distinction between those who receive the illegal gratification and perform their end of the bargain and those who receive the same illegal gratification but do not carry out the agreed task.