What is of pertinence here is that this Court was alive to the fact that cases of misuse may be an exception because lawyers would be loathe to stoop to such tactics, yet, it upheld the restriction because it sought to prevent a possible abhorrent misconduct and malpractice that would be corrosive to public life. The reasoning in Sakhawant Ali was to the effect that disqualification of a legal practitioner from contesting elections did not prevent him from practising his profession of law and as such, the right to practice the profession of law under Article 19(1)(g) did not imply the existence of a fundamental right in any person to stand as a candidate for election to the municipality. 21. Therefore, the present petitioners’ assertion that the undertaking of more than a specified number of tax audit assignments would not imperil the integrity and quality of the tax audit does not persuade us because a reasonable possibility of the fall in quality owing to the surfeit of tax audit assignments exists. Therefore, we find it proper to 844 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports trust the wisdom of the respondent-Institute as it has acted on bona fide and genuine recommendations of the CAG and the CBDT. We find no fault in the endeavour of the respondent-Institute to eliminate the possibility of the conduct of tax audits in an insincere, unethical or unprofessional manner. 22. Keeping the aforesaid in mind, there is no difficulty in concluding that by virtue of being a licensee, a privilege is conferred on Chartered Accountants. An elaborate and extensive process of recommendations and policy-making preceded the insertion of Section 44AB in to achieve the public interest of prevention of tax leakages and more efficient tax administration. It is in pursuance of this primary goal of public interest that a further privilege under Section 44AB was extended to Chartered Accountants to conduct quality tax audits, so as to enable the interest of the public exchequer. 23. The present discussion would be enriched by a comparative discourse on State regulation of licensed professions as under: (i) Justice Powell, in Ohralik vs. Ohio State Bar Association, 436 U.S. 447 (1978), (“Ohralik”), held that the State’s interests implicated in the case of regulatory restriction on the practice of a licensed profession are particularly strong. The case pertained to the conviction of an attorney for misconduct on the basis of his in-person solicitation from accident victims. Repelling the attorney’s claims regarding the violation of the right to freedom, Justice Powell laid stress on the need for prophylactic regulation to safeguard the interests of the lay public. This is for the reason that the State bears a special responsibility for maintaining standards amongst members of the licensed professions. This view is strengthened by the reasoning in Williamson vs. Lee Optical Co., 348 U.S. 483 (1955), (“Williamson”) and Semler vs. Oregon State Board of Dental Examiners, 294 U.S. 608 (1935), (“Semler”). (ii) On this point, the dicta from Goldfarb vs. Virginia State Bar, 421 U.S. 773, 792, (1975), (“Goldfarb”) is also instructive and the relevant portion of the reads as follows: “….The interest of the States in regulating lawyers is especially great, since lawyers are essential to the primary governmental function [2024] 6 S.C.R.