The schedule of passenger services run by the State Undertaking cannot be altered off an on. In to keep the Roadways services going the maintenance and repairs of vehicles has to be attend to even at odd hours at the workshops. At present the conditions of service of the employees of the U.P. Government Roadways and the Central Workshop, Kanpur are governed by the various rules and standing s of Government applicable to other temporary government servants under the rule making powers of the Governor. In view of the special service conditions of employees of the Roadways it seems necessary to evolve a new set of service conditions for its employees which may be compatible with the nature of work and functions of the organization. Accordingly, in super session of all previous s on the subject, the Governor has been pleased to pass the following s prescribed revised terms and conditions of service of temporary employees of the U.P. Roadways including those detailed in para 2 below. The revised terms and conditions of service shall be applicable to all future entrants in the Roadways organization and shall be enforced in the manner mentioned hereinafter in the case of temporary employee including those on the work charge strength and paid on monthly basis. (1) All temporary employees except those referred to in para 2 shall get one day’s rest in every period of seven days in accordance with the rules to be framed by Government. 1378 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports In case the employees is deprived of any of the days or rest, he shall be allowed within the same or following month compensation holidays of equal number of the days of rest so lost. (2) They shall be entitled to get one days paid holidays for every 20 days of work performed by them during the previous calender year, subject to the condition that the employee has worked for a period of 240 days or more during the previous calender year. In case the employees is not able to avail of full or part of the leave admissible to him during the calender year, it will be carried over to the following year, subject to a maximum of 30 days. (3) They shall get five days festival holidays in a calender year as prescribed by Government and subject to the rules to be framed for the purpose. (4) They shall be paid extra wages at the rate of twice of ordinary rate of wages in respect of work performed by them beyond the prescribed hours of work. (5) Their services are liable to termination on one month’s notice on either side, or one month’s pay in lieu thereof. (6) In other respect the conditions of service will remain the same as at present. The revised terms and conditions of services mentioned in para 1 above shall not apply to the following category of employees:- (a) All employees working in the offices establishment of the Asstt. General Manager, General Manager, Service Manager, Chief Mechanical Engineer, Roadways Central Workshop, Kanpur and the Head Quarter Office of the Transport Commissioner.