It states that there shall be an endeavour to organise agriculture on modern and scientific lines. State of Gujarat v. Mirzapur Moti Kureshi Kassab Jamat (7-Judge Bench),43 observed: “Article 48 consists of two parts. The first part enjoins the State to “endeavour to organise agricultural and animal husbandry” and that too “on modern and scientific lines”. The emphasis is not only on “organisation” but also on “modern and scientific lines”. The subject is “agricultural and animal husbandry”.” 37. A wholistically aware adoption of GMOs into agriculture appears to be in furtherance of this goal. The phrase ‘wholistically aware’ may require some exposition. What this means is that while GMOs are brought into the agricultural scene and eventually made available for commercial use, it should be so done keeping in mind the essentiality of preserving naturally occurring seeds, ensuring that all other factors 43 [2005] Supp. 4 SCR 582 : (2005) 8 SCC 534 1946 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports such as health, socio-economic impact, environmental/biodiversity impact, accessibility to farmers, proper control and marking of such modified crops etc. would be required to be in place. 38. In continuation to the above, reference has also to be made to Article 51A(h) of the Constitution of India which imposes a fundamental duty upon all in the following terms: “h) to develop the scientific temper, humanism and the spirit of inquiry and reform;” 38.1 This Court in AIIMS Students’ Union v. AIIMS (3-Judge Bench)44 observed: “58. … Fundamental duties, as defined in Article 51-A, are not made enforceable by a writ of court just as the fundamental rights are, but it cannot be lost sight of that “duties” in Part IV-A Article 51-A are prefixed by the same word “fundamental” which was prefixed by the founding fathers of the Constitution to “rights” in Part III. Every citizen of India is fundamentally obligated to develop a scientific temper and humanism. He is fundamentally duty-bound to strive towards excellence in all spheres of individual and collective activity so that the nation constantly rises to higher levels of endeavour and achievements. State is, all the citizens placed together and hence though Article 51-A does not expressly cast any fundamental duty on the State, the fact remains that the duty of every citizen of India is the collective duty of the State. … In the era of globalisation, where the nation as a whole has to compete with other nations of the world so as to survive, excellence cannot be given an unreasonable go-by and certainly not compromised in its entirety. Fundamental duties, though not enforceable by a writ of the court, yet provide a valuable guide and aid to interpretation of constitutional and legal issues. In case of doubt or choice, people’s wish as manifested 44 [2001] Supp. 2 SCR 79 : (2002) 1 SCC 428 [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1947 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. through Article 51-A, can serve as a guide not only for resolving the issue but also for constructing or moulding the relief to be given by the courts.