Care must be taken to put only such portion of the property to sale the consideration of which is sufficient to meet the claim in the execution petition. The sale held without examining this aspect and not in conformity with this requirement would be illegal and without jurisdiction. 8. In Takkaseela Pedda Subba Reddi v. Pujari Padmavathamma [(1977) 3 SCC 337, 340] this Court after examining the scope of Rule 64 of XXI CPC has taken a similar view: (SCC p. 340, para 3) “Under this provision the executing court derives jurisdiction to sell properties attached only to the point at which the decree is fully satisfied. The words ‘necessary to satisfy the decree’ clearly indicate that no sale can be allowed beyond the decretal amount mentioned in the sale proclamation. In other words, where the sale fetches a price equal to or higher than the amount mentioned in the sale proclamation and is sufficient to satisfy the decree, no further sale should be held, and the court should stop at that stage.” 25. It is, thus, settled principle of law that court’s power to auction any property or part thereof is not just a discretion but an obligation imposed on the Court and the sale held without examining this aspect and not in conformity with this mandatory requirement would be illegal and without jurisdiction. In the case at hand, the Executing Court did not discharge its duty to ascertain whether the sale of a part of the attached property would be sufficient to satisfy the decree. When the valuation of three attached properties is mentioned in the attachment Panchanama, it was the duty of the Court to have satisfied itself on this aspect and having failed to do so the Court has caused great injustice to the debtor by auctioning his entire attached properties causing huge loss to the debtor and undue [2024] 6 S.C.R. 651 Bhikchand S/o Dhondiram Mutha (Deceased) Through Lrs. v. Shamabai Dhanraj Gugale (Deceased) Through Lrs. benefit to the auction purchaser. The fact that the properties were sold for a sum of Rs. 34,000/- would further demonstrate that the decree holder who himself is the auction purchaser has calculatedly offered a bid at Rs. 34,000/- despite being aware that the value of the attached properties is Rs. 1,05,700/-. 26. In view of the above discussion, we are satisfied that the present is a case where the decree is subsequently modified/varied, and the decretal amount was reduced from Rs. 27,694/- to Rs. 17,120/-, the sale of all the three attached properties was not at all required and further in the facts and circumstances of the case variation of the decree read together with the sale of the properties at a low price has caused huge loss to the debtor where restitution by setting aside the execution sale is the only remedy available. It is not a case where the restitution can be ed appropriately or suitably by directing the decree holder to make payment of some additional amount to the debtor to compensate him for the loss caused due to sale of his properties.