5. However, Pune Municipal Corporation (supra) was doubted by a two-Judge Bench (cor. Hon’ble Arun Mishra and Hon’ble Amitava Roy, JJ.) in Indore Development Authority v. Shailendra [2-Judge] 3 wherein it was of the opinion that the issue should be considered by a larger Bench. 1 [2023] 6 SCR 209 : 2023 SCC OnLine SC 288 2 (2014) 3 SCC 183 3 (2018) 1 SCC 733 [2024] 5 S.C.R. 965 Govt. of NCT of Delhi Through Its Secretary, Land and Building Department & Another v. M/s K.L. Rathi Steels Limited and Others 6. Consequently, a Bench of three-Judges (cor. Hon’ble Arun Mishra, Hon’ble A.K. Goel and Hon’ble M. Shantanagoudar, JJ.) was constituted. The majority speaking through Hon’ble Arun Mishra, J. in Indore Development Authority v. Shailendra [3-Judge] 4 held Pune Municipal Corporation (supra) per incuriam but deemed it not necessary to refer to a larger Bench. Relevant excerpts from such decision are set out hereunder: 216. With respect to the decision of this Court in Pune Municipal Corpn. we have given deep thinking whether to refer it to further larger Bench but it was not considered necessary as we are of the opinion that Pune Municipal Corpn. has to be held per incuriam, inter alia, for the following reasons: *** 217. The decision rendered in Pune Municipal Corpn., which is related to Question (i) and other decisions following, the view taken in Pune Municipal Corpn. are per incuriam. … The decisions rendered on the basis of Pune Municipal Corpn. are open to be reviewed in appropriate cases on the basis of this decision.” 7. It is relevant to highlight that one of the Judges (Hon’ble M. Shantanagoudar, J.) partly dissented by recording the following observations: “295.2. …However, according to me the in Pune Municipal Corpn. is not rendered per incuriam. In view of the above, the in Pune Municipal Corpn. may have to be reconsidered by a larger Bench, inasmuch as Pune Municipal Corpn. was decided by a Bench of three Judges.” 8. The aforesaid decision, as it was destined, gave rise to uncertainty rendered by two contradictory decisions by Benches of co-equal strength. Hence, a three-Judge Bench (cor. Hon’ble Madan B. Lokur, Hon’ble Kurian Joseph and Hon’ble Deepak Gupta, JJ.) in 4 (2018) 3 SCC 412 966 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports State of Haryana v. G.D. Goenka Tourism Corporation Limited5 while deferring a hearing as to whether the matter should at all be referred to a larger Bench directed that pending decision on the question of reference, the High Courts may not deal with any case relating to the interpretation of or concerning section 24 of the 2013 Act. 9. Two s dated 22nd February, 2018 passed by different Benches of co-equal strength followed. While a Bench (cor. Hon’ble A.K. Goel and Hon’ble U.U. Lalit, JJ.) by an passed in Indore Development Authority v. Shyam Verma 6 directed the matters to be placed before an appropriate Bench the next day as per s of the Hon’ble the Chief Justice of India, a similar was passed by a coordinate Bench (cor.