The Respondents also contended that the very objective behind Section 6A and the Assam Accord, as a whole, reflect a constitutional tradition of accommodating differences within Indian polity through asymmetric federal arrangements. Lastly, the Respondents have submitted that the term ‘ordinarily resident’ has been defined by this Court in Arunachal Pradesh v. Khudiram Chakma156 and hence is not vague. 209. The issues that fall for our consideration are four-fold: i. Is there any rationale for the cut-off dates, i.e., 01.01.1966 and 25.03.1971? Whether they are manifestly arbitrary? ii. Whether the process envisaged under Section 6A and the Citizenship Rules, 2009 for the migrants is unreasonable and suffers from the vice of ‘manifest arbitrariness’? iii. Is Section 6A is so ‘manifestly arbitrary’ that it offends Part II of the Constitution? iv. Is the term ‘ordinarily resident’ in Section 6A undefined and vague? If yes, does Section 6A deserve to be struck down on the grounds of being manifestly arbitrary? (a) Relation between Article 14 and arbitrariness 210. At the outset, it is pertinent to address that apart from the reasonable classification aspect of non-discrimination discussed in the preceding section, Article 14 also prohibits manifestly arbitrary actions. The principle underlying the same is that if an act is arbitrary and no rational basis exists for its application, it may lead to differential application on similarly situated persons. Hence, such arbitrariness is not only antithetical to the notion of equality, it is also prohibited under Article 14. 211. The absence of arbitrariness, or non-arbitrariness, as an essential component of the rule of law and a concomitant need in Article 14 is sufficiently evident. The relation between rule of law and arbitrariness was also traced in Indira Nehru Gandhi v. Shri Raj Narain157 and 156 Arunachal Pradesh v. Khudiram Chakma, 1994 Supp. 1 SCC 615 157 Indira Nehru Gandhi v. Shri Raj Narain, 1975 Supp SCC 1 1090 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports thereafter, in E. P. Royappa v. State of Tamil Nadu,158 wherein equality was observed to be antithetical to arbitrariness. Furthermore, it was underscored that when an act is arbitrary, it inherently embodies inequality in political logic and constitutional jurisprudence, thus contravening the principles enshrined in Article 14. It is imperative to understand the significance of logic as one of the critical facets behind state action, the absence of which would render such action susceptible to arbitrariness. 212. This Court further elaborated upon the relationship between Article 14 and the conception of non-arbitrariness in the seminal case of Maneka Gandhi v. Union of India,159 wherein after emphasizing the dynamic nature of ‘equality’ and citing the ‘arbitrariness’ doctrine as formalized through EP Royappa (supra), it was observed by PN Bhagwati, J. (as His Lordship then was) that: "7. […] Article 14 strikes at arbitrariness in State action and ensures fairness and equality of treatment. The principle of reasonableness, which legally as well as philosophically, is an essential element of equality or non-arbitrariness pervades Article 14 like a brooding omnipresence and the procedure contemplated by Article 21 must answer the test of reasonableness in to be in conformity with Article 14.