This natural green cover (pvt.) outside the government forests being very high compared to the figure likely to be arrived at by the Committee finally under the classification of private forests, it is obvious as this private green cover includes all types of vegetation and of all density class including cashew crop which may not be fitted into the criteria taken for identification of private forests.” 59. After having examined the records of the Sawant Committee, this Court in Tata Housing (supra) observed that the three criteria prescribed in the 2nd Report was just and proper and in conclusion it has been held: - “12. From a bare perusal of the aforesaid passages from the Second Interim Report of the Sawant Committee it would appear that the Committee had categorically laid down three criteria for identifying a land to be forest and it had rejected the Satellite Imagery and Toposheets of 1960 and Nature Green Cover Maps as the relevant criteria for classifying any land to be forest. In the Third Interim Report of the Sawant Committee in which it was reported that the appellants› plot was a forest, curiously enough, the three criteria referred to above, which were earlier followed by the Committee for holding a land to be a forest land, were abandoned. Instead, the Third Interim Report laid down principally the following criteria: (i) Satellite Imagery and Toposheets of 1960. (ii) Report of the Sub-Committee for maintaining Nature Reserve Green Belt around cities, particularly with reference to the map prepared for nature reserve on hill slopes. [2024] 1 S.C.R. 729 T. N. Godavarman Thirumulpad v. Union of India and Others (iii) Enumeration of the plants in a 50-metre-wide belt adjoining the boundaries of the appellants’ plot on three sides i.e. the north, east and west, but excluding the south side which had a huge public structure admeasuring 1000 sq metres.” 18. This being the position, we are of the view that the Third Interim Report of the Sawant Committee, having been based upon the criteria which were rejected by it in its previous report, cannot be accepted as there was no ground for making a departure therefrom while submitting the Report in relation to the appellants’ plot. The Committee was not justified in holding the appellants’ plot to be a forest land on the basis of an altogether different criteria for which there is no reasonable nexus, especially when none of the three criteria laid down in the Second Interim Report has been adhered to. Thus the High Court was not justified in accepting the Third Interim Report of the Sawant Committee and concluding on the basis thereof that the appellants’ plot was a forest.” 60. These aspects were well within the knowledge of the petitioner/ appellant herein inasmuch as they were parties to the proceedings in Tata Housing (supra). Therefore, they cannot feign ignorance about the reports of the Expert Committees. Also, the appellant, asserting a public cause, cannot be considered unaware of the criteria proposed by the Committee.