37. The fact regarding Usha’s homicidal death is not in dispute. The Medical Jurist (PW-15) gave categoric testimony to the effect that Usha had been manually strangled and the cause of death was Asphyxia. Thus, we need not discuss the medical evidence in detail. 38. The statement of Ashok Kumar Pathak by itself provides a complete chain of circumstantial evidence sufficient to establish the guilt of the accused appellant. The accused appellant vanished from the crime scene and remained absconding for a period of nearly 10 years. He could be apprehended on 9th August, 2000, whereafter, regular trial was conducted. During the period of abscondence of the accused appellant, the complainant Ashok Kumar Pathak seems to have left his house at Kartar Nagar, Delhi where he used to reside earlier. Despite ample efforts being made by the Investigating Agency to summon and examine Ashok Kumar Pathak, he could not be traced out and produced in the witness box for deposition during trial after the accused had been arrested. 39. Viewed in light of the provisions of Section 299 CrPC read with Section 33 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 as interpreted by this Court in the case of Nirmal Singh (supra) and Jayendra Vishnu Thakur (supra), the trial Court was justified in holding that the statement of Ashok Kumar Pathak recorded in these proceedings was fit to be read as a piece of substantive evidence. We concur with the findings recorded by the trial Court and affirmed by the High Court on this vital aspect of the matter. 40. Sudha (PW-10), sister of deceased Usha also stated that the accused appellant used to quarrel with his wife Usha suspecting her infidelity. The witness also stated that the accused appellant had come to the house of Usha in her presence about four days before the incident and went away after fighting with Usha. Thus, evidence of this witness also establishes the motive attributed to the accused appellant for commission of the murder. Her testimony is also sufficient to conclude that inspite of the acrimonious relations between the husband and wife, the accused appellant used to visit Usha frequently from the village Khatta, U.P. where he was residing after having abandoned his wife and children. 334 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 41. The witness Sanjiv Jain (PW-8), employer of accused appellant gave evidence to the effect that the Investigating Officer (PW-13) collected the admitted writings of the accused (Exhibit PW-12/C and Exhibit PW-12/D) from him during the course of the investigation. Sanjiv Jain (PW-8) had no motive whatsoever so as to falsely implicate the accused in this case. He had provided employment to the accused which fact is not disputed. The version of Sanjiv Jain (PW-8) to the effect that the Investigating Officer (PW-13) collected the scripts/ documents written by the accused while working in his establishment finds corroboration from the statement of Ashok Kumar Pathak recorded in the proceedings under Section 299 CrPC. 42. The contention of learned counsel for the appellant that the two persons namely, Sandeep Kumar and Rajbir Singh (PW-14) were involved in an illicit affair with Usha and they might have murdered the lady has no legs to stand because in view of what has been stated by Ashok Kumar Pathak in his testimony recorded under Section 299 CrPC, it is clear that no one other than the accused appellant was present in the house with Usha on the night she was murdered.