The application was opposed by the appellant therein, inter-alia, on the ground that since the first application was withdrawn by the Company without obtaining liberty to file a fresh application, the same would not be maintainable as per the principles underlying 23 Rule 1 of the CPC. In this regard, reliance was placed by the appellant therein upon the decision of this Court in Sarguja Transport (supra). 170 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports However, this Court distinguished the decision in Sarguja Transport (supra) on the ground that the objective in the said decision was to prevent such situations where the petitioner withdraws a case to file it before a more convenient Bench or for some other mala fide purpose. The relevant observations from the said decision are reproduced hereinbelow: “19. In the present case, we are satisfied that the application for withdrawal of the first petition under Section 25-O(1) was made bona fide because the respondent Company had received a letter from the Deputy Labour Commissioner on 5-4-2007 calling for a meeting of the parties so that an effort could be made for an amicable settlement. In fact, the respondent Company could have waited for the expiry of 60 days from the date of filing of its application under Section 25-O(1), on the expiry of which the application would have deemed to have been allowed under Section 25-O(3). The fact that it did not do so, and instead applied for withdrawal of its application under Section 25-O(1), shows its bona fide. The respondent Company was trying for an amicable settlement, and this was clearly bona fide, and it was not a case of Bench-hunting when it found that an adverse was likely to be passed against it. Hence, Sarguja Transport case [(1987) 1 SCC 5 : 1987 SCC (Cri) 19 : AIR 1987 SC 88] is clearly distinguishable, and will only apply where the first petition was withdrawn in to do Bench-hunting or for some other mala fide purpose. 20. We agree with the learned counsel for the appellant that although the Code of Civil Procedure does not strictly apply to proceedings under Section 25-O(1) of the Industrial Disputes Act, or other judicial or quasi-judicial proceedings under any other Act, some of the general principles in CPC may be applicable. For instance, even if Section 11 CPC does not in terms strictly apply because both the proceedings may not be suits, the general principle of res judicata may apply vide Pondicherry Khadi & Village Industries Board v. P. Kulothangan [(2004) 1 SCC 68 : 2004 SCC (L&S) 32] . However, this does not mean that all provisions in CPC will strictly apply to proceedings which are not suits. [2024] 12 S.C.R. 171 M/s HPCL Bio-Fuels Ltd. v. M/s Shahaji Bhanudas Bhad 22. No doubt, 23 Rule 1(4) CPC states that where the plaintiff withdraws a suit without permission of the court, he is precluded from instituting any fresh suit in respect of the same subject-matter. However, in our opinion, this provision will apply only to suits.