Therefore, the word ‘vesting’ is a word of variable input and has more than one meaning which must be discerned and the exact connotation must be found by looking into the scheme of law and the context in which it is used. The setting in which it is used would lend colour to it and divulge the legislative intent. In State of Gujarat vs. The Board of Trustees of Port of Kandla, (1979) 1 GLR 732, (“Trustees of Port of Kandla”), it was observed that the vesting of property in the Board of trustees is for the limited purpose of administration, control and management only without the Central Government having divested itself of ownership. Thus, vesting of property in a person or authority does not always mean transfer of absolute title in the property. In Bibhutibhushan Datta vs. Anadinath Datta, AIR 1934 Cal 87, (“Bibhutibhusan Datta”), it was observed that mere transference of management or control of a property, when transfer of proprietary rights is not intended, the requirements of vesting is not satisfied in terms of Section 10 of the Limitation Act. Under the Act under consideration, the vesting of the enemy property in the Custodian is not free from encumbrances but vesting is in accordance with the status of the property as held by the enemy, enemy subject or enemy firm prior to its vesting. Therefore, only when enemy property vests in the Custodian free from all encumbrances it will be a transfer of ownership from the owner of such property to the Custodian. This is because under the Act, Custodian holds or manages the property for and on behalf of the enemy, enemy subject or enemy firm only temporarily and there is no transfer of ownership to the Custodian or the Union of India. Hence, there is no necessity of payment of compensation to the owners of such properties. Under Section 5A of the Act under consideration, when property vests in the Custodian under the provision of the Act, he may [2024] 2 S.C.R. 907 Lucknow Nagar Nigam & Others v. Kohli Brothers Colour Lab. Pvt. Ltd. & Others issue a certificate to that effect and such certificate shall be evidence of the facts stated therein. Further, under Section 7 (1) of the Act, any sum payable by way of dividend, interest, share profits or otherwise to or for the benefit of an enemy or an enemy subject or an enemy firm shall, unless otherwise ed by the Central Government, be paid by the person by whom such sum would have been payable to the Custodian or such person as may be authorised by him in that behalf and shall be held by the Custodian or such person subject to the provisions of the Act. Under Section 7 (3) of the Act, the Custodian shall, subject to Section 8 of the Act, can deal with any money paid to him or any property vested in him under the Act in such manner as the Central Government may direct.