Secondly, it was contended that it was only recently that notices have been issued to the writ petitioners herein to respond to the same and for conducting disciplinary proceedings. That there cannot be a discrimination, so to say, by the respondent- Institute in the matter. That, the impugned Guideline dated 08.08.2008 has been on the statute book, the disciplinary proceedings have been initiated only recently. The impugned Guideline has not been effectively given effect to. Therefore, the disciplinary proceeding [2024] 6 S.C.R. 857 Shaji Poulose v. Institute of Chartered Accountants of India & Others may be quashed for the aforesaid reasons. In this regard, it was contended that when the respondent-Institute has remained silent and not acted upon the Guideline, since it was issued on 08.08.2008, all of a sudden there could not have been initiation of disciplinary proceedings only against the petitioners herein and possibly others who may not have approached any court of law, whereas many other Chartered Accountants have not been proceeded against and are virtually scot-free. Therefore, there is discrimination and violation of Article 14 of the Constitution of India herein in the implementation of the Guideline vide Notification dated 08.08.2008. Therefore, pending full and effective implementation of the Guideline impugned herein of the impugned proceedings against the petitioners herein for the alleged misconduct on their part for violating the Guideline may be dropped. 39. It is observed that there has been an uncertainty in law due to a similar Guideline being successfully assailed and during the pendency of the matter before this Court the impugned Guideline being enforced and selective implementation of the same by the respondent-Institute. Relying on the dictum of this Court in Chamundi Mopeds, the petitioners contended that a stay on the of Madras High Court was only on the operation of the and not a declaration that the was bad in law. As the special leave petition impugning the of Madras High Court was dismissed as infructuous and any action taken by the respondent-Institute on the superseding Guideline dated 08.08.2008 was taken only belatedly, we find force in the submission that there was uncertainty in law only in the context of the pendency of the matter before this Court on there being quashing of the Guideline by the Madras High Court and an interim stay of the said by this Court. 40. In this regard, we may refer to Halsbury Laws of England, [5th Edn. Volume 96 (2018)] dealing with the principle against doubtful penalisation: “774. Principle Against Doubtful Penalisation “It is a principle of legal policy that a person should not be penalised except under clear law, …” 41. Francis Bennion on Statutory Interpretation (8th Edn, 2020 at Section 26.4) deals with principle against doubtful penalisation in the following words: 858 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “It is a principle of legal policy that a person should not be penalised except under clear law. This principle forms part of the context against which legislation is enacted and, when interpreting legislation, a court should take it into account.” 42.