Although the State Government possesses acknowledgeable power in the lifecycle of the acquisition process, it also bears great responsibility of ensuring its judicious exercise. We cannot, therefore, treat the compromise or release lightly. 44. Keeping in view the entirety of the exercise and the sum totality of all factors, both apparent and others more insidious, we are unable to accept the parties’ compromise, in terms whereof the disposal of instant appeals is suggested. 45. Having held so, we are not enthused by the Respondents’ conduct either. These unusual events create more than just suspicion that the Respondents have been able to influence the representations of the many, as well as twist and undermine institutions and process meant for the protection of public interest. In their hurry to curry favour with the Respondents, the senior bureaucrats have unfortunately failed to visualise the serious ramifications their actions could have had on the entire acquisition of more than 950 acres land and the law in general. 46. We are thus, of the considered view that this is a case where the bureaucracy abdicated its duty and failed to objectively assist the Decision-Making Authority, in arriving at a just and fair conclusion in conformity with larger public interest. Had the senior officers flagged all the relevant issues on file, we have no reason to doubt that the Competent Authority would have never approved the proposal to release the subject land. D.4 Doctrine of merger 47. We must also note that the previous Civil Appeals preferred by the State Government, challenging the same impugned were dismissed on account of non-prosecution. Hence, there arises an important question with regard to the maintainability of the present [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2299 Haryana Urban Development Authority v. Abhishek Gupta etc. appeals. This issue may be conclusively determined by examining the applicability of the doctrine of merger to the peculiar set of circumstances of the instant case. 48. In this respect, in the landmark case of Kunhayammed v. State of Kerala,12 it was held that: “44. To sum up, our conclusions are: (i) Where an appeal or revision is provided against an passed by a court, tribunal or any other authority before superior forum and such superior forum modifies, reverses or affirms the decision put in issue before it, the decision by the subordinate forum merges in the decision by the superior forum and it is the latter which subsists, remains operative and is capable of enforcement in the eye of law […] (vi) Once leave to appeal has been granted and appellate jurisdiction of Supreme Court has been invoked the passed in appeal would attract the doctrine of merger; the may be of reversal, modification or merely affirmation.” [Emphasis supplied] 49. The same principle was reiterated in the case of Khoday Distilleries Limited v. Sri Mahadeshwara Sahakara Sakkare Karkhane Limited, Kollegal,13 where this Court held that merger would result if the SLPs were dismissed after granting leave, irrespective of whether reasons were given or not: “20. The Court thereafter analysed number of cases where s of different nature were passed and dealt with these s by classifying them in the following categories: (i) Dismissal at the stage of special leave petition—without reasons—no res judicata, no merger.