The learned Judge held that the cess was levied at a rate not exceeding five percent of the value of the minerals at the pit’s mouth on all extracted minerals. Since all the extracted minerals were goods produced, a cess on the value of such extracted minerals was held to constitute excise duty.209 Unlike the majority opinion, Justice Wanchoo dealt with the issue of the legislative competence of the State legislature to impose the cess in view of Entry 50 of List II. The learned Judge held that the cess was not a tax on mineral rights, but rather a tax on minerals actually produced, and therefore not covered by Entry 50 of List II. 149. In State of Orissa v. M A Tulloch,210 a Constitution Bench was concerned with the validity of the same Orissa Act which was under consideration in Hingir-Rampur (supra). The respondents challenged the demand for the payment of fees made by the State Government for the period from July 1957 to March 1958 under the Orissa Act for being ultra vires. It must be noted that the MMDR Act was brought into force as and from 1 June 1958. The Constitution Bench analyzed the relevant constitutional and statutory provisions, and precedent to reiterate the following principles of law: (i) The power of the State to enact legislation on the subject matter of “mines and mineral development” under Entry 23 of List II is plenary and subject to the provisions of Entry 54 of List I; (ii) Section 2 of the MMDR Act contains the requisite legislative declaration in terms of Entry 54 of List I. To the extent to which the Union Government has taken the regulation of mines 207 Hingir-Rampur (supra) [37] 208 Entry 84, before the Constitution (One Hundred and First Amendment) Act 2016, read as follows: “84. Duties of excise on tobacco and other goods manufactured or produced in India except – (a) Alcoholic liquors for human consumption; (b) Opium, Indian hemp and other narcotic drugs and narcotics, but including medicinal and toilet preparations containing alcohol or any substance included in sub-paragraph (b) of this entry.” 209 Hingir-Rampur (supra) [47] 210 [1964] 4 SCR 461 1664 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports and development of minerals under its control, so much was withdrawn from the ambit of the power of the State legislature under Entry 23 of List II. The legislation of the State enacted under Entry 23 of List II would, to the extent of that “control”, be superseded or be rendered ineffective;211 (iii) The legislative power of the state remains intact beyond the “extent” of the MMDR Act. Therefore, the crucial enquiry has to be directed to ascertain the “extent” of the Parliamentary legislation; (iv) Where a competent legislature with superior legislative powers expressly or impliedly evinces by its legislation an intention to cover the whole field, the enactments of the other legislature whether passed before or after would be superseded on the ground of repugnance.212 Section 18(1) evinces the Parliamentary intention to cover the entire field relating to conservation and development of minerals.