The provision does not contemplate a registration regime for persons who fall under this category, similar to Sections 3 and 4 of the Citizenship Act. Section 6A(2) cannot be held unconstitutional for the only reason that it does not prescribe a process of registration. D. Conclusion 125. In view of the discussion above, the following are the conclusions: a. Articles 6 and 7 of the Constitution prescribe a cut-off date for conferring citizenship for migrants from East and West Pakistan at the “commencement of the Constitution”, that is 26 January 1950. Section 6A of the Citizenship Act confers citizenship from 1 January 1966 for those who migrated before that date. Those who migrated between 1 January 1966 and 24 March 1971, are conferred citizenship upon the completion of ten years from the date of detection as a foreigner. Section 6A confers citizenship from a later date to those who are not covered by Articles 6 and 7 of the Constitution. Thus, Section 6A is not violative of Articles 6 and 7 of the Constitution; b. Section 6A satisfies the two-pronged reasonable classification test: i. The legislative objective of Section 6A was to balance the humanitarian needs of migrants of Indian Origin and the impact of the migration on the economic and cultural needs of Indian States; and [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1311 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 ii. The two yardsticks employed in Section 6A, that is migration to Assam and the cut-off date of 24 March 1971 are reasonable. Though other states share a longer b with Bangladesh, the impact of migration in Assam in terms of numbers and resources is greater. Thus, the yardstick of migration to Assam is reasonable. The cut-off date of 25 March 1971 is reasonable because the Pakistani Army launched Operation Search light to curb the Bangladeshi nationalist movement in East Pakistan on 26 March 1971. Migrants before the operation were considered migrants of the Indian partition; and iii. Both the above yardsticks have a rational nexus with the object of Section 6A. c. Undocumented migrants could be registered as citizens under Section 5(1)(a) of the Citizenship Act before it was amended by the Citizenship (Amendment) Act 2003 to exclude ‘illegal immigrants’. Thus, the claim of the petitioner that Section 6A is unconstitutional because instead of preventing migration to Assam, it incentivizes migrants in other states to come to Assam to secure citizenship through Section 6A is erroneous. d. The constitutional validity of a legislation cannot be tested for violation of Article 355. Article 355 was included in the Constitution as a justification for the exercise of emergency powers by the Union over States; e. Section 6A does not violate Article 29(1) of the Constitution. Article 29(1) guarantees the right to take steps to protect the culture, language and script of a section of citizens. The petitioners have been unable to prove that the ability of the Assamese people to take steps to protect their culture is violated by the provisions of Section 6A; f. Section 6A(3) cannot be held unconstitutional on the ground of temporal unreasonableness; and g. Section 6A(2) cannot be held unconstitutional for not prescribing a procedure for registration.