Wildlife Tourism is a thriving sector in India, and with over 8 crore visitors annually, zoos are in the forefront of this sector and significantly contribute to spreading awareness about wildlife conservation. Most zoos are easily accessible to people, are open [2024] 3 S.C.R. 283 In Re: T.N. Godavarman Thirumulpad v. Union of India & Ors. In Re: Gaurav Kumar Bansal year-round and are relatively economical while having high impact in spreading wildlife awareness. This gives zoos an edge over more expensive and relatively less accessible wilderness area such as wildlife safaris. B) The disadvantages of establishment of Tiger Safari inside Tiger Reserves include i. clearing of vegetation which could be denser in forest lands; and ii. accessibility to forest areas may be limited and hence, the establishment could be resource intensive.” 147. The CEC also gives its opinion about the impact of the Pakhrau Tiger Safari on the disbursal of tigers from the Corbett Tiger Reserve. The CEC in its report opines that it may not be feasible to locate the Tiger Safaris in the Tiger Reserves including the protected area, buffer zone, on the fringe area. 148. The report of the CEC as also the reports of various Committees which were constituted as per the directions of the High Court of Uttarakhand as well as other authorities would clearly show that there has been rampant deforestation in the Corbett National Park. A huge number of trees have been felled thereby causing a heavy loss to the environment. 149. It is also brought to our notice that in the Ramnagar area as also in other areas around the Corbett Tiger Reserve, there is a mushrooming growth of resorts, which are acting as a hindrance to the free movement of animals including the tigers and elephants. It is also brought to our notice that similarly, there is a mushrooming growth of resorts around various Tiger Reserves throughout the country which are now being used as marriage destinations. It is brought to our notice that in the said resorts, music is played at a very loud volume which causes disturbance to the habitat of the forests. Undisputedly, mushrooming growth of resorts within the close proximity of the protected areas and uncontrolled activities therein, including sound pollution are capable of causing great harm to the ecosystem. We propose to issue certain directions in that regard in the operative part of our . 284 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (f) Principle of Ecological Restitution 150. It will be relevant to refer to the Convention on Biological Diversity, 1992 (“CBD” for short), to which India is a signatory. Article 8 of the CBD pertains to in situ conservation. Under clause (f) thereof, it requires the contracting parties to, as far as possible and as appropriate, to rehabilitate and restore the degraded ecosystems and promote the recovery of threatened species. It reads thus : (f) Rehabilitate and restore degraded ecosystems and promote the recovery of threatened species, inter alia, through the development and implementation of plans or other management strategies.