84. As already discussed herein above, the entire thrust of the WLP Act is on the conservation, protection, and management of wildlife. Noticing the importance of tigers as a centre of the eco-system, Chapter IVB of the WLP Act, which deals with NTCA, was inserted by the Wild Life (Protection) Amendment Act, 2006 (No. 39 of 2006) with effect from 4th September 2006. A perusal of Chapter IVB would reveal that it emphasizes on the conservation and protection of tigers and the management of the ‘Tiger Reserves’. A very important role has been entrusted to the NTCA which is to be chaired by the Minister in charge of the Ministry of Environment and Forests insofar as the conservation and protection of tigers and the management of ‘Tiger Reserves’ is concerned. 85. As already discussed herein above, clause (c) of Section 38-O of the WLP Act requires the NTCA to lay down normative standards for tourism activities and guidelines for project tiger from time to time for tiger conservation in the buffer and core area of tiger reserves and ensure their due compliance. Clause (g) thereof requires the NTCA to ensure that the tiger reserves and areas linking one protected area or tiger reserve with another protected area or tiger reserve are not diverted for ecologically unsustainable uses, except in public interest and that too, with the approval of the National Board for Wild Life and on the advice of the Tiger Conservation Authority. 86. It is to be noted that after the State Government, on the recommendation of the NTCA, notifies an area as a ‘Tiger Reserve’, the restriction as provided under the provisions of sub-section (2) of Section 18, sub- sections (2), (3) and (4) of Section 27, Sections 30, 32 and clauses (b) and (c) of Section 33 of this Act shall, as far as may be, apply in relation to a ‘Tiger Reserve’ as they apply in relation to a sanctuary. 87. Section 38XA of the WLP Act specifically provides that the provisions contained in the said Chapter shall be in addition to, and not in derogation of, the provisions relating to sanctuaries and National Parks. As such, it could be seen that the legislature has put ‘Tiger Reserve’ on a higher pedestal than the sanctuaries and the National Parks. 250 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 88. Sub-section (4) of Section 38V of the WLP Act requires the State Government, while preparing a TCP, to ensure the agricultural, livelihood, developmental and other interests of the people living in tiger bearing forests or a tiger reserve. Explanation thereto divides the ‘Tiger Reserve’ into two areas, i.e., (i) core or critical tiger habitat areas of National Parks and sanctuaries, which are required to be kept as inviolate for the purposes of tiger conservation, without affecting the rights of the Scheduled Tribes or such other forest dwellers; and (ii) buffer or peripheral area, where a lesser degree of habitat protection is required to ensure the integrity of the critical tiger habitat.