161, shall be relevant and admissible, notwithstanding the express bar against use of such statement in evidence contained therein – In such eventuality, the statement recorded u/s. 161 assumes the character of a dying declaration – Since extraordinary credence has been given to such dying declaration, the court ought to be extremely careful and cautious in placing reliance thereupon. [Para 64] Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 – s. 161 – Consideration of the statement of one of the deceased recorded u/s. 161 before his death, as a dying declaration – Non-obtainment of a medical fitness certificate by the investigating officer from the medical officer – Effect: Held: As regard to the assessment of mental fitness of the person making a dying declaration, it is indubitably the responsibility of the court to ensure that the declarant was in a sound state of mind – This is because there are no rigid procedures mandated for recording a dying declaration – If an eyewitness asserts that the deceased was conscious and capable of making the declaration, the medical opinion cannot override such affirmation, nor can the dying declaration be disregarded solely for want of a doctor’s fitness certification – Requirement for a dying declaration to be recorded in the presence of a doctor, following certification of the declarant’s mental fitness, is merely a matter of prudence – On facts, investigating officer recorded the statement instantly, a day after the incident, categorically stating that the medical report did not mention that the condition of the declarant, was serious in nature – On perusal of the statement, it is clear that the declarant was in a fit condition as not only did he properly explain the incident but has also markedly specified the role of the appellant – That [2024] 7 S.C.R. 223 Dharmendra Kumar @ Dhamma v. State of Madhya Pradesh apart, the injuries found during the post-mortem examination conducted by the doctor have duly corroborated the statement of deceased – Mere non-obtainment of a medical fitness certificate would not deter the Court from considering a properly recorded statement u/s. 161 to be a dying declaration. [Para 70] First information report – Object of: Held: FIR is not a substantive piece of evidence, and it can be used only to corroborate or contradict the version of an informant – Also written complaint to register the FIR not necessary – Even an oral communication to the Police disclosing the commission of a cognizable offence is sufficient to register the FIR – Object of the FIR is to inform the jurisdictional Magistrate and the Police Administration of the offence reported to the Police Station; to acquaint the Judicial Officer before whom the case is ultimately tried as to what are the actual facts stated immediately after the occurrence and on what materials the investigation commenced; and most importantly, to safeguard the accused against subsequent variations, exaggerations or additions. [Paras 38, 39] Case Law Cited Shivanna v. State of Hunsur Town Police [2010] 10 SCR 410 : (2010) 15 SCC 91; State v. N.S.