Governor under Section 3(3)(b)(i), the power of nomination of MLA’s is given to the Speaker of the House under this very Section. It is therefore incorrect to suggest that the power vested in the Lt. Governor continued by default or ‘Semantic Lottery’. In fact, the power to nominate is brought into the Statute for the first time with the introduction of the 1993 amendment to the DMC Act. This submission is therefore rejected as it is oblivious of the 1993 amendment to the Act. The ‘Text’ and the ‘Context’ of Section 3(3)(b)(i) of DMC Act: 30. We will now examine Section 3(3)(b)(i) and also the ‘context’ in which it is located with other provisions of the Act to gather the true purpose and intention of the Parliament. The text of the provision is clear. Section 3(3)(b)(i) provides that ‘ten persons to be nominated by the Administrator’. 31. It is now necessary to refer to the statutory scheme involving power, functions and duties of the Lt. Governor and that of the Government of NCTD in to appreciate the true intendment behind Section 3(3)(b)(i), i.e., whether the power is to be exercised by the Lt. Governor on the aid and advice of the Council of Ministers or it is a statutory duty to be exercised at its own discretion as the Lt. Governor. 230 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 32. Provisions of the DMC Act imposing certain duties on the Lt. Governor are as follows: (i) Section 3(3)(b)(i) provides that ten persons who have special knowledge and experience in municipal administration are to be nominated by the Administrator. (ii) Section 7 relates to the duty, superintendence, direction and control of elections by the Election Commissioner and the Administrator is given the duty to appoint the Election Commissioner. The other power relates to a duty to maintain the integrity of the elections. (iii) Section 33 relates to the duty to decide if any councillor has become subject to disqualification. The duty is entrusted to the Administrator and the Section provides that “the question shall be referred to the decision of the Administrator and his decision shall be final”. Sub-Section 4 of the same Section provides that before giving any decision on the question, the Administrator shall obtain the opinion of the Election Commissioner and the Lt. Governor shall act in accordance with the opinion of the Election Commission. (iv) Section 73 relates to the duty of the Administrator to convene the first meeting of the Corporation after the General Elections. (v) Section 77 prescribes the duty of the Administrator to nominate a presiding officer for the election of the Mayor. This duty is prescribed in terms that the “Administrator shall nominate a Councillor”. (vi) Section 82 relates to the power of the Lt. Governor to decide the time, place and procedure of the first meeting of the Corporation after the General Elections. (vii) Section 95 provides for the Administrator being the Appellate Authority against imposition of punishment on municipal officer and other employees who are appointed by the Commissioner.