However, the trial court accepted the contents of both the dying declarations Ex. 59 and Ex. 65 coupled with the evidence of the prosecution witnesses and held that death of Rekha was homicidal and not accidental. While acquitting the father-in-law, mother- in-law and sister-in-law of the appellant, the trial court held that prosecution had established beyond reasonable doubt that accused No. 4 i.e. the appellant alongwith his minor brother Suresh had in furtherance of their common intention committed murder of Rekha. Therefore, the trial court held the appellant guilty of the offence punishable under Section 302 IPC. After a separate hearing, the trial court sentenced the appellant as above. 4. Aggrieved by the aforesaid of conviction and sentence, appellant preferred appeal before the High Court. By the and dated 15.11.2010, the High Court relied upon the written dying declaration of the deceased Ex. 59 recorded by PW-6 and also the oral dying declarations of the deceased made before PW-2, PW-3, PW-4, PW-7 and PW-8 and thereafter upheld the of conviction of the trial court. Holding that the trial court warranted no interference, the appeal was dismissed. [2024] 6 S.C.R. 745 Rajendra S/o Ramdas Kolhe v. State of Maharashtra 5. This Court by dated 16.08.2011 had issued notice. Thereafter vide dated 02.10.2011, leave was granted. However, prayer for bail was rejected at that stage. 6. By dated 30.06.2016, this Court noted that appellant had already undergone about nine years of sentence. Therefore, the sentence was suspended and bail was granted to the appellant. 7. Learned senior counsel for the appellant strenuously argued that there are material contradictions in the evidence of the prosecution witnesses. That apart, the High Court had rightly not relied upon Ex. 65 i.e. the dying declaration recorded by the Special Executive Magistrate as that was not proved. In so far Ex. 59 dying declaration is concerned, he submits that PW-12, the doctor, had given the time of recording the dying declaration as 11:45 PM, both as the starting point as well as the time of conclusion which is a significant lacuna. It casts a serious doubt about the credibility of the declaration. He submits that since the courts below had discarded the theory of domestic violence, there could be no other reason for the appellant to commit murder of his wife. As a matter of fact, it has come on record that the appellant had tried to save the deceased and in the process had got burnt on his right hand. He had taken the deceased alongwith his brother to the hospital. That being the position, the conviction and sentence is liable to be interfered with. 7.1. On the other hand, learned counsel for the respondent supports the conviction and sentence of the appellant. He submits that the evidence on record clearly establishes beyond any reasonable doubt the guilt of the appellant. Prosecution could successfully prove the guilt of the appellant beyond any reasonable doubt. The dying declaration Ex. 59 is too significant to be overlooked. Minor discrepancies here and there cannot impeach the prosecution case.