(iii) Law made by the Parliament shall prevail, whether made before or after any law made by the Legislative Assembly of NCTD, and the law made by the Legislative Assembly, to the extent of repugnancy, shall be void. Only exception is when the law made by Legislative Assembly of NCTD receives Presidential assent. (proviso to Article 239AA(3)(c)) (iv) Once Parliament exercises its legislative power and makes a law on a subject in List II or List III, the Legislative Assembly of NCTD is denuded of its legislative competence to make laws with respect to that subject. Once there is no legislative power for Legislative Assembly of NCTD, there would be no executive power as executive power is always co-extensive and coterminous with legislative power. B. Executive Relationship (v) Government of NCTD has the executive power in relation to all matters with respect to which Legislative Assembly of NCTD has power to make laws. The executive power extends to all matters enumerated in the Concurrent List as well as State List (Except Entries 1, 2 and 18 of State List). (vi) Union of India shall have exclusive executive power with respect to matters in Entries 1, 2 and 18 of the State List, which are specifically excluded from the legislative power of NCTD. (vii) The executive power of Government of NCTD shall be exercised through the Lt. Governor who shall act on the aid and advice of the Council of Ministers [Art 239AA(4)] read with Section 44 of the GNCTD Act. Another constitutionally recognized departure for NCTD is that while Governor of a State under Article 163 acts on the aid and advice of Council of Ministers on all matters except when he is by or under the Constitution required to exercise his functions in his discretion, the Lt. Governor, under Article 239AA(4) is to exercise discretion, ‘in so far as he is, by or under any law, required to act in his discretion’. ‘Law’ requiring him to act in his discretion could be a law of the Legislative Assembly of NCTD or a Parliamentary law. 226 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports C. Statutory Regulation (viii) Once Parliament makes Law on a subject over which NCTD also has legislative competence and consequently executive power, the powers, duties and obligations of the authorities will then be governed by the mandate of the Law made. This position is already mentioned in statements (iii) and (iv). If the Law vests a power, duty or an obligation on the Lt. Governor, the Lt. Governor will act under the mandate of the Act and not as per the ‘executive power’ of Government of NCTD. Therefore, statutory provision alone will determine whether the power is intended to be exercised by the Lt. Governor on his own accord or on the aid and advise of the Council of Ministers. 23. Before examining the statute, i.e., DMC Act in detail, we will deal with yet another submission of the petitioner. It is argued by Dr. Singhvi that vesting of power in the name of Administrator/Lt.