The one fire arm injury with blackening at the entry point also explains that the deceased was first shot from a close range. The remaining injuries also correlate with the testimony of the eye witnesses referred above. 20. The plea of self-defence and in the alternative the plea of grave and sudden provocation taken by the appellant is based on the theory that it was the deceased who came to the police station in full speed in his car thereby first hitting the gate of the police station and then making an attempt to snatch the weapon from the appellant in to kill him. But these arguments do not hold any ground and most importantly there is not even an iota of evidence to sustain this bizarre line of defence. 21. Under Section 105 of the Indian Evidence Act 2, the burden of proof that the accused’s case falls within the general exception is upon the accused himself. This Court in State of M.P. v. Ramesh, (2005) 9 SCC 705 observed that: “Under Section 105 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (in short “the Evidence Act”), the burden of proof is on the 2 105. Burden of proving that case of accused comes within exceptions.—When a person is accused of any offence, the burden of proving the existence of circumstances bringing the case within any of the General Exceptions in the Indian Penal Code (XLV of 1860), or within any special exception or proviso contained in any other part of the same Code, or in any law defining the offence, is upon him, and the Court shall presume the absence of such circumstances. 174 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports accused, who sets up the plea of self-defence, and, in the absence of proof, it is not possible for the court to presume the truth of the plea of self-defence. The court shall presume the absence of such circumstances……Where the right of private defence is pleaded, the defence must be a reasonable and probable version satisfying the court that the harm caused by the accused was necessary for either warding off the attack or for forestalling the further reasonable apprehension from the side of the accused.” This burden of proof though is not as onerous as the burden of proof beyond all reasonable doubts which is on the prosecution, nevertheless some degree of reasonable satisfaction has to be established by the defence, when this plea is taken. (See : Salim Zia v. State of U.P., (1979) 2 SCC 648). 22. In the case at hand, the defence has not been able to establish a case of private defence by any evidence. There is no evidence on this aspect and therefore this plea was rightly rejected by the Trial Court as well as the Appellate Court. 23. In fact, the plea of self-defence taken by the accused/appellant is childish to say the least, in the light of the facts of the case, and on the weight of the evidence of the prosecution.