[2024] 11 S.C.R. 722 : 2024 INSC 866 In Re: Directions in The Matter of Demolition of Structures Writ Petition (Civil) No. 295 of 2022 13 November 2024 [B.R. Gavai* and K.V. Viswanathan, JJ.] Issue for Consideration Whether the executive should be permitted to take away the shelter of a family or families as a measure for infliction of penalty on a person who is accused in a crime. In other words, whether properties of persons, who are accused of committing certain crimes or for that matter even convicted for commission of criminal offences, can be demolished without following the due process of law. Headnotes† Demolition of property – Demolition of property of a person by the State machinery merely because he is an accused or a convict, that too without following due process prescribed by law, is totally unconstitutional: Held: 1. If the executive in an arbitrary manner demolishes the houses of citizens only on the ground that they are accused of a crime, then it acts contrary to the principles of ‘rule of law’ – If the executive acts as a judge and inflicts penalty of demolition on a citizen on the ground that he is an accused, it violates the principle of ‘separation of powers’ – In such matters the public officials, who take the law in their hands, should be made accountable for such high-handed actions – For the executive to act in a transparent manner so as to avoid the vice of arbitrariness, certain binding directives need to be formulated – This will ensure that public officials do not act in a high-handed, arbitrary, and discriminatory manner – Further, if they indulge in such acts, accountability must be fastened upon them. [Paras 53, 54] 2. If a citizen’s house is demolished merely because he is an accused or even for that matter a convict, that too without following the due process as prescribed by law, it will be totally unconstitutional for more than one reason – Firstly, the executive * Author [2024] 11 S.C.R. 723 In Re: Directions in The Matter of Demolition of Structures cannot declare a person guilty, as this process is the fundamental aspect of the judicial review – Only on the basis of the accusations, if the executive demolishes the property/properties of such an accused person without following the due process of law, it would strike at the basic principle of rule of law and is not permissible – The executive cannot become a judge and decide that a person accused is guilty and, therefore, punish him by demolishing his residential/commercial property/properties – Such an act of the executive would be transgressing its limits. [Para 71] 3.1. The chilling sight of a bulldozer demolishing a building, when authorities have failed to follow the basic principles of natural justice and have acted without adhering to the principle of due process, reminds one of a lawless state of affairs, where “might was right” – In our Constitution, which rests on the foundation of ‘the rule of law’, such high-handed and arbitrary actions have no place – Such excesses at the hands of the executive will have to be dealt with the heavy hand of the law – Our constitutional ethos and values would not permit any such abuse of power and such misadventures cannot be tolerated by the court of law – Such an action also cannot be done in respect of a person who is convicted of an offence – Even in the case of such a person the property/ properties cannot be demolished without following the due process as prescribed by law – Such an action by the executive would be wholly arbitrary and would amount to an abuse of process of law – The executive in such a case would be guilty of taking the law in his hand and giving a go-bye to the principle of the rule of law.