Although Sections 8 and 11 allow courts to refer parties to arbitration or appoint arbitrators, Section 5 limits the courts from dealing with substantive objections pertaining to the existence and validity of arbitration agreements at the referral or appointment stage. A referral court at Section 8 or Section 11 stage can only enter into a prima facie determination. The legislative mandate of 1prima facie determination ensures that the referral courts do not trammel the arbitral tribunal’s authority to rule on its own jurisdiction.” 21. While reiterating on the limited scrutiny of courts at the stage of initiating the arbitral process, the 7-judge bench also emphasized 9 (2024) 6 SCC 1 2286 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports that while Section 16 deals with both ‘existence’ and ‘validity’, Section 11 deals only with ‘existence’ of the arbitration agreement. 22. In view of the above authoritative pronouncement by the 7-Judge bench, critical scrutiny at the Section 11 stage would be antithetical to the objective of the Arbitration Act and this will also impinge on the principle of party autonomy. As we have noted earlier, Section 11(8) itself provides for the requirement of disclosure under Section 12 and therefore importing principles of constitutional law to justify intervention at the Section 11 stage, would surely defeat the very objective of the Arbitration Act. This will also be a departure from the expected norm of minimal judicial intervention. Unilateral Appointments- Whether Permissible? 23. One of the core issues to be considered here is whether unilateral appointment of arbitrators is permissible. While such appointments were a norm and approved by Courts prior to the 2015 Amendment,10 the legal terrain has been altered with the changed provisions. 24. Significantly, the 246th Report of the Law Commission addressed the issue of party autonomy and the independence and impartiality of arbitrators in the following words: “the principles of impartiality and independence cannot be discarded at any stage of the proceedings, specifically at the stage of constitution of the Arbitral Tribunal, it would be incongruous to say that party autonomy can be exercised in complete disregard of these principles — even if the same has been agreed prior to the disputes having arisen between the parties.” 25. The Law Commission report also made the following critical observation: “60. The Commission, however, feels that real and genuine party autonomy must be respected, and, in certain situations, parties should be allowed to waive even the categories of ineligibility as set in the proposed Fifth Schedule. This could be in situations of family arbitrations or other arbitrations where a person commands the blind 10 Executive Engineer, Irrigation Division, Puri v. Gangaram Chhapolia, [1984] 3 SCC 627; Secretary to Government Transport Department, Madras v. Munusamy Mudaliar, [1988] (Supp) SCC 651; International Authority of India v. K.D. Bali and Anr, [1988] 2 SCC 360 [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2287 Central Organisation for Railway Electrification v. M/s ECI SPIC SMO MCML (JV) A Joint Venture Company faith and trust of the parties to the dispute, despite the existence of objective “justifiable doubts” regarding his independence and impartiality.