In other words, the question of whether they do in fact give effect to the principles in Articles 39(b) and (c) is justiciable. 132. In Kesavananda Bharati, while striking down the second part of the erstwhile Article 31-C, Justice HR Khanna explained the importance of the court exercising judicial review on whether the legislation gives effect to the principles under Article 39(b) and (c). He was particularly apprehensive of giving the legislature the final authority to determine whether a law falls within the ambit of Article 39(b). The exclusion of judicial review was held to be violative of the basic structure of the Constitution. Justice Khanna observed: “(xiv) The second part of Article 31-C contains the seed of national disintegration and is invalid on the following two grounds: (3) It gives a carte blanche to the legislature to make any law violative of Articles 14, 19 and 31 and make it immune from attack by inserting the requisite declaration. Article 31-C taken along with its second part gives in effect the power to the legislature including a State Legislature, to amend the Constitution in important respects. (4) The legislature has been made the final authority to decide as to whether the law made by it is for the objects mentioned in Article 31-C. The vice of the second part of Article 31-C lies in the fact that even if the law enacted is not for the object mentioned in Article 31-C, the declaration made by the legislature precludes a party from showing that the law is not for the object and prevents a court from going into the question as to whether the law enacted is really for that object. The 128 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports exclusion by the legislature, including a State Legislature, of even that limited judicial review strikes at the basic structure of the Constitution. The second part of Article 31-C goes beyond the permissible limit of what constitutes amendment under Article 368.” 133. The sequitur to this Court striking down the second part of Article 31-C in Kesavananda Bharti is that the court may conduct a judicial inquiry into whether the legislation which is sought to be saved by Article 31-C, actually bears a direct and reasonable nexus with the principles laid down in Article 39(b) or (c), as the case may be. In this regard, the observations of Justice Mathew in Kesavananda Bharati are instructive: “1779. […] a Court will have to examine the pith and substance, the true nature and character of the law as also its design and the subject-matter dealt with by it together with its object and scope. If the Court comes to the conclusion that the declaration was merely a pretence and that the real purpose of the law is the accomplishment of some object other than to give effect to the policy of the State towards securing the Directive Principles in Article 39(b) and (c), the declaration would not be a bar to the Court from striking down any provision therein which violates Articles 14, 19 or 31.