According to the learned counsel, the exposition of law in the decision in Shri Gurudatta Sugars Marketing Pvt. Ltd. case (supra) is inapplicable in the cases on hand. 12. To appreciate rival contentions, it is only appropriate to refer to Sections 143- A and 148 of the NI Act: - “S.143 – A. Power to direct interim compensation – (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), the Court trying an offence under Section 138 may the drawer of the cheque to pay interim compensation to the complainant- (a) in a summary trial or a summons case, where he pleads not guilty to the accusation made in the complaint; and (b) in any other case, upon framing of charge. (2) The interim compensation under sub-section (1) shall not exceed twenty per cent of the amount of the cheque. (3) The interim compensation shall be paid within sixty days from the date of the under sub-section (1), or within such further period not exceeding thirty days as may be directed by the Court on sufficient cause being shown by the drawer of the cheque. (4) If the drawer of the cheque is acquitted, the Court shall direct the complainant to repay to the drawer the amount of interim compensation, with interest at the bank rate as published by the Reserve Bank of India, prevalent at the beginning of the relevant financial year, within sixty days from the date of the , or within such further period not exceeding thirty days as may be directed by the Court on sufficient cause being shown by the complainant.“ “S.148. Power of Appellate Court to payment pending appeal against conviction. (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), in an appeal by the drawer against conviction under Section 138, the [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1897 Bijay Agarwal v. M/s Medilines Appellate Court may the appellant to deposit such sum which shall be a minimum of twenty per cent of the fine or compensation awarded by the trial Court: Provided that the amount payable under this sub-section shall be in addition to any interim compensation paid by the appellant under Section 143-A.” (Underline supplied) 13. A scanning of Sections 143A and 148 would reveal that the former deals with the power of the Court trying an offence under Section 138 of the NI Act to direct the drawer of the cheque to pay interim compensation to the complainant whereas the latter Section deals with the power of the Appellate Court in an appeal by the drawer against the conviction under Section 138 to the appellant to deposit such sum which shall be a minimum of 20% of the fine or compensation awarded by the trial Court. The proviso to Section 148(1) would further reveal that the amount payable thereunder shall be in addition to any interim compensation paid by the appellant under Section 143A, NI Act. Thus, a scanning of both the Sections would reveal that the said sections empower to issue such directions only to the ‘drawer’ of the cheque.