It was similarly argued on behalf of the other appellant that the of the NGT impugned therein which revised buffer zones also had the effect of amending the Revised Master Plan 2015. A perusal of para 29 of the Mantri Techzone Private Limited (supra) would clearly reveal that the counsel appearing for the applicants before the High Court has fairly conceded to the setting aside of those general directions. It could thus be seen that, though the issue was raised before the High Court with regard to the power of the NGT to issue such directions, this Court did not go into that issue on the basis of the concessions made by the appellants. We are therefore of the considered view that the observations found in para 47 of the Mantri Techzone Private Limited (supra) could not be construed to be a precedent or a ratio decidendi. 77. We may also gainfully refer to the observations made by this Court in the case of Director General (Road Development) National Highways Authority of India (supra). In the said case, one of the challenges was the notification issued by the State Government under Section 154 of the MRTP Act. The notification dated 14th November 2017 referred to the general directions issued by the NGT in its dated 19th May 2015. Vide the said directions, it was directed that the planning authorities while preparing development plan for area in their jurisdiction or amending them in respect of undeveloped portion abutting the hills up to 100 feet should be shown as “No 1018 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Development/Open Space Reservation”. It further directed that in the event the 100 feet area abutting hills, has already been developed, in that area no permission be granted for additional FSI or TDR. The Court observed thus: “92. In the present case, the State of Maharashtra has not shown any material or file containing the reasons behind the directive of 14-11-2017. It is not in dispute that the direction was consequential to, and solely based on the directions of the NGT in para 17(e). As noticed earlier, those directions were not based on any scientific evidence or report of any technical expert. Furthermore, even the impugned notification does not specify what constitutes “hills”, and how they can be applied in towns and communities set in undulating areas and hilly terrain. This is not only vague, but makes the directions arbitrary as they can be applied at will by the authorities concerned. More importantly, they amount to a blanket change of all regional and development plans. While such directions can be issued, if situations so warrant, such as in extraordinary or emergent circumstances, the complete absence of any reasons why the State issued them, coupled with the lack of any supporting expert report or input, renders it an arbitrary exercise. That they are based only on the NGT’s s [Aam Aadmi Lokmanch v. State of Maharashtra, 2015 SCC OnLine NGT 11], only underlines the lack of any application of mind on the part of the State, while issuing them.