Ltd., Paryas Infosolution Pvt. Ltd. and Indo Metalimpex Pvt. Ltd. by becoming directors of aforesaid companies from back date for showing his IDS declaration as genuine. Ankush Jain has thus committed the offence of money laundering as defined under Section 3 of PMLA by being actually involved in and knowingly assisting Satyendar Kumar Jain in projecting his proceeds of crime to the tune of Rs.4,81,16,435/- as untainted in the mode and manner as described in the preceding paragraphs in the present complaint and is therefore, liable for punishment under Section 4 of PMLA. 3. Vaibhav Jain Vaibhav Jain is involved in knowingly assisting Satyendar Kumar Jain by making declaration under IDS, 2016 for declaring undisclosed income of Rs.8.6 crore (including Rs.1,53,61,166/- during check period) for the period from 2010-11 to 2015-16 in to save Sh. Satyendar Kumar Jain. [2024] 3 S.C.R. 785 Satyendar Kumar Jain v. Directorate of Enforcement He also prepared back dated documents with the help of Sunil Kumar Jain, Ankush Jain and Sh. Jagdish Prasad Mohta with regard to his directorship in Akinchan Developers Pvt. Ltd., Indo Metalimpex Pvt. Ltd. and Mangalayatan Projects Pvt. Ltd. by becoming directors of aforesaid companies from back date for showing his IDS declaration as genuine. Vaibhav Jain has thus committed the offence of money laundering as defined under Section 3 of PMLA by being actually involved in and knowingly assisting Satyendar Kumar Jain in projecting his proceeds of crime to the tune of Rs.4,81,16,435/- as untainted in the mode and manner as aforesaid in the complaint and is therefore, liable for punishment under Section 4 of PMLA. SUBMISSIONS 7. The learned counsels for the parties made their respective submissions at length. The learned senior advocate Mr. Abhishek Manu Singhvi broadly made following submissions on behalf of the appellant Satyendar Kumar Jain: (i) The appellant was already granted bail in the predicate offence registered by the CBI, and the arrest of the appellant was made by the ED almost five years after the registration of the ECIR, though the appellant was cooperating the ED by remaining present in response to the summons issued under Section 50 of the PMLA. The appellant was in custody from 30.05.2022 to 26.05.2023 and since then has been granted interim bail on the medical ground. (ii) No shares of companies as alleged by the ED were acquired by the appellant within the check period and even otherwise the assets held by the company could not be attributed to its shareholders. (iii) Even if the accommodation entries amounting to Rs. 4.61 crores are attributed to the appellant through his wife’s shareholdings, it would come only to Rs. 59,32,122/- which is less than 1 crore, 786 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports and therefore the appellant is entitled to bail under the proviso to Section 45 of the PMLA. (iv) There is gross discrepancy in the amount of proceeds of crime calculated by the ED and the amount mentioned in the Chargesheet of the CBI in as much as the alleged disproportionate amount is Rs.1,62,50,294/- as per the FIR whereas as per the ED the amount is Rs.