Therefore, we are required to give elaborate reason why remand is necessary. In this context, we have briefly referred to the core facts of the case, the rival contentions, the award and the impugned . The factual backdrop leading to the dispute is narrated in detail in the Award and by the learned Single Judge. The summary of the factual position is as follows. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..” (emphasis added) In paragraphs 42 and 43, the Division Bench held thus: “42. Even otherwise, question would arise as to whether such a detailed factual enquiry can be made to set aside the award. To reach such a conclusion that it suffers from perversity, the Award had to be carefully analyzed to rule out other possibilities. It is not enough to merely state a conclusion. Further, when such a conclusion can be reached under Section 34 of the Act is a debatable issue that also needs to be addressed. 43. In the impugned in paragraphs 161 and 162 reference is made to the principle of law governing the discretion to be used for grant of specific performance. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 153 Bombay Slum Redevelopment Corporation Private Limited v. Samir Narain Bhojwani In paragraph 163, it is stated that ‘perusal of the record’ will indicate that the Appellant has not proved that he was ready and willing. When the Appellant sought to argue that the Appellant was ready and willing, the same was dealt with in paragraph 164. The submission of the Appellant that unless the Respondent would have fully satisfied the Appellant that he had made appropriate provision for shifting 107 PAPs to some other plot the Appellant was not required to proceed with the construction of building, was not accepted. However, there is no discussion as to why this stand of the Appellant was rejected. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. .. … ..” (emphasis added) In the impugned , certain findings recorded by the learned Single Judge have been criticised. Ultimately, in paragraphs 61 and 62 of the impugned , the Division Bench held thus: “61. Considering that the impugned has not addressed several issues raised by both parties before setting aside the Award, for the above reasons we are inclined to set aside the impugned to remand the proceedings to the learned Single Judge. Further under the Award itself. question now will remain for damages. 62. Since we are of the opinion that the petition filed by the Respondent needs to be reconsidered, we refrain from going deeper into the controversy and in our discussion, which have only highlighted as to why the impugned is unreasoned and therefore needs to be set aside for reconsideration. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..” Thus, eventually, an of remand was passed directing the learned Single Judge to hear the petition under Section 34 afresh.