Thus, in all cases except one, the possession was handed over after the development of DP Roads before the year 2003. In some cases, the possession of DP Road was handed over in the year 1997. In one case, the possession was handed over in the year 2006. Thus, after lapse of several years after handing over possession of DP Roads i.e. in 2014, belatedly a request was made for grant of additional TDR. The request was made after a gap of about 8 to 13 years for which there is no explanation. Thus, the petitioners by their conduct [2024] 9 S.C.R. 879 Kukreja Construction Company & Others v. State of Maharashtra & Others have virtually abandoned their claim for additional FSI/TDR in respect of amenity.” In all these cases, we find that the writ petitioners/appellants herein had surrendered the reserved land and had also been granted 25% TDR and a representation for additional TDR was made after the of this Court in Godrej & Boyce I and in some cases, the representation was made early but in other cases, the representations were made after some time. It is also noted in Civil Appeal No.1748 of 2015, in the case of Natwar Parikh, this Court had stated that the decision in Godrej & Boyce I could not be revisited inasmuch as the Mumbai Municipal Corporation could not seek to reargue the matter. Also, the facts in each case on the questions of delay was to be considered as observed by this Court. The issue of abandonment of claim has also been considered and negatived in the of this Court in Godrej & Boyce II. We have referred to the decisions of this Court where the question of delay and laches would not arise in matters such as the present cases. When relief in the nature of compensation is sought, as in the instant case, once the compensation is determined in the form of FSI/TDR, the same is payable even in the absence of there being any representation or request being made. In fact, a duty is cast on the State to pay compensation to the land losers as otherwise there would be a breach of Article 300-A of the Constitution. As rightly contended by the learned senior counsel for the writ petitioners/ appellants herein, the respondent-Mumbai Municipal Corporation has not established that owing to a short delay even if it has occurred in any of these cases owing to uncertainty in law, the Corporation has been prejudiced by the same or that the third-party rights had been created which could not be disturbed owing to delay or laches. The calculation of period of delay in the table submitted by learned senior counsel for the Mumbai Municipal Corporation is not acceptable in view of our discussion above. The decisions referred to by us above would clearly indicate that neither the doctrine of delay and laches nor the principle of abandonment of claim or waiver would apply in these cases. Rather the delay has occurred on the part of the Mumbai Municipal Corporation in complying with the Regulations insofar as these appellants are concerned.