e. Proceedings before the High Court and Impugned 25. In 2019, a Writ Petition was instituted before the High Court by an individual appointed as a part-time assistant teacher in one of the Madarsas. 21 He sought regularization of his services and salary at par with regular teachers, relying on several provisions of the Madarsa Act and the allied Regulations. By an dated 23 October 2019, a Single Judge of the High Court issued notice on the Writ Petition and observed that certain questions related to the vires of the Madarsa Act arose for consideration, which warranted consideration by a larger bench. The Single Judge observed as follows: “… 7. From perusal of the same, following questions arise for consideration: - 20 Uttar Pradesh Non-governmental Arabic and Persian Madarsa Recognition, Administration and Services (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2018 21 Writ A No. 29324 of 2019. 388 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (i) Since the Madarsa Board is constituted for education in ‘Arabic, Urdu, Parsian, Islamic-studies, Tibb Logic, Philosophy and includes such other branches of learning as may be specified by the Board from time to time’, how come persons of a particular religion are provided to be member of the same? It does not talks about exponence (sic) in the aforesaid fields, for the purposes of which the Board is constituted, but persons of specific religion. It was put to learned Additional Chief Standing Counsel as to whether the purpose of the Board is to impart religious education only, to which he submits that a perusal of the Madarsa Education Act, 2004 does not indicate so. (ii) With a secular constitution in India can persons of a particular religion be appointed/nominated in a Board for education purposes or it should be persons belonging to any religion, who are exponent in the fields for the purposes of which the Board is constituted or such persons should be appointed, without any regard to religion, who are exponent in the field for the purposes of which the Board is constituted? (iii) The Act further provides the Board to function under the Minority Welfare Ministry of State of U.P., hence, a question arises as to whether it is arbitrary for providing the Madarsa education to be run under the Minority Welfare Department while all the other education institutions including those belonging to other minorities communities like Jains, Sikhs, Christians etc being run under the Education Ministry and whether it arbitrarily denies the benefit of experts of education and their policies to the children studying in Madarsa? 8. All these questions impacts the vires of the Madarsa Act, 2004 and are important questions to be decided before looking into the application of the Madarsa Act, 2004 and the regulations framed thereunder. Thus, I [2024] 11 S.C.R. 389 Anjum Kadari & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. find it appropriate that the matter may be placed before the Larger Bench for decision on the aforesaid issue. ...” (emphasis supplied) 26. Other similar Writ Petitions were also referred to a larger bench and the Chief Justice of the High Court constituted a bench to hear the reference.