Indisputably, this was the prosecution case. But the indisputable and the undisputed position is that the prosecution which is supposed to establish its case, as is put forth by it, failed to prove the same. No volume of argument is required to come to such a conclusion as the very acquittal of all 1060 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the co-accused of the appellant by the trial Court and the acquittal of the appellant of the conviction under Sections 342 and 365, IPC, by the High Court as per the impugned , would speak for itself. It is also an undisputable position that despite the acquittal of the co-accused of the appellant and thereafter, the appellant, as above, no appeal was preferred against their acquittal. In the contextual situation it is also relevant to note that though the aforementioned Kishore was cited as a witness for the prosecution but was not examined. According to the prosecution one Alexander had witnessed the appellant taking the deceased and wrongfully confining him in the tailoring shop of PW-3, Smapath Kumar. However, he was also not examined. In view of the aforesaid facts and the s of the trial Court as also the High Court it can be indubitably said that the case of the prosecution put forth that the deceased Senthil Kumar was kidnapped and wrongfully confined in the tailoring shop of PW-3 Sampath Kumar was not attempted to be established by the prosecution by examining the aforesaid Kishore and Alexander and at any rate, case of kidnapping and wrongful confinement against the appellant was disbelieved by the High Court. 10. Bearing in mind the aforesaid circumstance that the contentions against the conviction under Section 306, IPC have to be appreciated. 11. Through PW-2, who claimed to be the wife of the deceased Senthil Kumar, the prosecution attempted to establish that one week prior to the occurrence the appellant along with three others went to the house of the deceased and created a ruckus and at that time PW-2 alone was there. According to her, when the deceased came back home, she divulged the entire episode to him. Further, she would depose that her husband had received Rs. 2000/- for interest and it was to be repaid in instalments. She would also depose that earlier, the deceased himself had deposited two installments of Rs. 400/- each, towards the loan amount directly to the aforementioned financial institution. She has also deposed that subsequent to the appellant’s iniquitous visit as above, she asked him to come on Wednesday and then paid him an amount of Rs.800/-. 12. PW-2 further deposed that while leaving the house, after that first iniquitous visit, the appellant threatened that the deceased would [2024] 2 S.C.R. 1061 M. Vijayakumar v. State of Tamil Nadu be lifted unless the balance amount is not returned. Going by the evidence of PW2 out of borrowed amount of Rs. 2,000/- an amount of Rs. 1,600/- was paid back. Hence, going by the prosecution case the kidnapping and consequential wrongful confinement was due to the failure on the part of the deceased to repay the balance amount.