32. In the present case, it is not in dispute that:- (i) Both the proceedings are civil in nature and have been prosecuted by the Plaintiff or the predecessor in interest. [2024] 4 S.C.R. 45 Purni Devi & Anr. v. Babu Ram & Anr. (ii) The failure of the execution proceedings was due to a defect of jurisdiction. (iii) Both the proceedings pertain to execution of the decree dated 10.12.1986, which attains finality on 09.11.2000. (iv) Both the proceedings are in a court. 33. The only objection pointed out by the Respondent to the ingredients for invocation of Section 14, is that the Plaintiff have not approached this Court with clean hands and did not approach the Court of the Tehsildar diligently and in good faith. 34. The of this Court in M.P. Steel (Supra) discussed the phrases, “due diligence” and “in good faith” for the purposes of invocation of Section 14 of the Limitation Act. While considering the application of Section 14 to the Customs Act, it was observed: “10. We might also point out that Conditions 1 to 4 mentioned in the Consolidated Engg. case [(2008) 7 SCC 169] have, in fact, been met by the Plaintiff. It is clear that both the prior and subsequent proceedings are civil proceedings prosecuted by the same party. The prior proceeding had been prosecuted with due diligence and in good faith, as has been explained in Consolidated Engg. [(2008) 7 SCC 169] itself. These phrases only mean that the party who invokes Section 14 should not be guilty of negligence, lapse or inaction. Further, there should be no pretended mistake intentionally made with a view to delaying the proceedings or harassing the opposite party. xxx xxx xxx 49. ……. the expression “the time during which the plaintiff has been prosecuting with due diligence another civil proceeding” needs to be construed in a manner which advances the object sought to be achieved, thereby advancing the cause of justice.” (emphasis supplied) 35. The s in Consolidated Engg. Enterprises (Supra) and M.P. Steel (Supra) have been followed consistently by this Court. For instance in Sesh Nath Singh v. Baidyabati Sheoraphuli Coop. 46 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Bank Ltd.5 (2-Judge Bench), while holding Section 14 to be applicable to applications under Section 7 of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 and the SARFAESI Act, it was observed:- “75. Section 14 of the Limitation Act is to be read as a whole. A conjoint and careful reading of sub-sections (1), (2) and (3) of Section 14 makes it clear that an applicant who has prosecuted another civil proceeding with due diligence, before a forum which is unable to entertain the same on account of defect of jurisdiction or any other cause of like nature, is entitled to exclusion of the time during which the applicant had been prosecuting such proceeding, in computing the period of limitation. The substantive provisions of sub-sections (1), (2) and (3) of Section 14 do not say that Section 14 can only be invoked on termination of the earlier proceedings, prosecuted in good faith.” 36.