That the conditional permission granted by Union of India to the CGMCP for environmental release of transgenic mustard hybrid DMH-11 is said to be for the following purposes: a. The environmental release of GE mustard parental lines bn 3.6 carrying barnase and bar genes and modbs 2.99 containing barstar and bar genes, is to use the developing new parental lines and hybrids under supervision of ICAR. The environmental release of mustard hybrid DMH-11 for its seed production and testing, as per existing ICAR guidelines and other extant rules/regulations, is prior to commercial release. b. Further, to generate scientific evidences in Indian agro-climatic situation and also as a precautionary mechanism, the field demonstration studies with respect to the effect of GE mustard on honey bees and other pollinators, as recommended in the 136th GEAC meeting, shall also be conducted post-environmental release simultaneously by the applicant, within two years, under the supervision of ICAR, as per ICAR guidelines and other extant rules/guidelines/ regulations and the report be submitted to GEAC. 14.4 The environmental release of transgenic mustard hybrid DMH-11 hybrid DMH-11 for its seed production and testing as per ICAR guidelines was recommended by GEAC in its 147th meeting. The seed production and testing was to require three crop seasons, unless otherwise decided by ICAR, before the seeds are commercially available to the farmers. 14.5 It is further pertinent to note that the permission for environmental release was to be subjected to terms and conditions to ensure environmental safeguards, for example: [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2013 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. (i) It provides that during the period of approval, a Post-Release Monitoring Committee (PRMC) would be constituted by GEAC, consisting of two subject matter external experts and a nominee each from the RCGM, GEAC and the PRMC, who will visit the growing sites of the approved biological material(s) at least once during each season and submit their report to GEAC on the matters of compliance. (ii) Usage of any formulation or herbicide is not permitted for cultivation in the farmer’s field under any situation and such use would require necessary permission as per the procedures and protocols for safety assessment of insecticides/herbicides by the Central Insecticide Board & Registration Committee (CIB&RC). Any such use in the farmer’s field without due approval from the CIB&RC would attract appropriate legal action under the Insecticides Act, 1968 and the Rules, 1971, made under the said Act and the EP Act, 1986, and the Rules made thereunder. (iii) The production of seeds of transgenic mustard hybrid DMH-11 will take place under the supervision of ICAR, as per the existing ICAR guidelines and other extant rules/regulations, after which the commercial cultivation of mustard will start. Commercial use will be subject to the Seeds Act, 1966 and the related rules and regulations. (iv) As a precautionary mechanism, the data in regard to the impact of transgenic mustard hybrid DMH-11 on honey bees and other pollinators will be generated during these two years under the supervision of ICAR.