In response to the above, the Borrower herein vide its letter dated 16.01.2024 inter-alia stated that since the Secured Asset stood transferred to the Subsequent Transferee, it had no role to play in handing over of the possession or the original title deeds of the same. Whereas, the Bank vide its Reply dated 23.01.2024 stated that as per the terms of the auction, the Bank was obliged only to provide the symbolic possession of the Secured Asset which had already been delivered. It further assured that the Bank was exploring all options for handing over the original title deeds. In regards to the physical possession, the Bank informed that it had already filed an application under Section 14 of the SARFESI Act, which was still pending and that until appropriate s were passed, it was not possible to handover the physical possession of the Secured Asset. 36. On the other hand, the Subsequent Transferee upon receipt of the aforesaid legal notice, instituted a suit being the Special Civil Suit No. 5 of 2024 against the petitioner inter-alia seeking a declaration that (a) they are the owners and title-holder of the Secured Asset; (b) the Assignment Agreement dated 28.08.2023 is legal and valid and (c) they are entitled to the physical possession of the Secured Asset. It has been alleged that the Subsequent Transferee was constrained to prefer the above suit, as the petitioner herein had attempted to take forceful possession of the Secured Asset. The Bank [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1643 Celir LLP v. Mr. Sumati Prasad Bafna & Ors. on 16.01.2024 filed an application in the aforesaid suit for rejection of plaint under VII, Rule 11 of Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (for short, the “CPC”). 37. The District Magistrate vide its dated 02.02.2024 in S.A. No. 787 of 2023 allowed the Banks’ application under Section 14 of the SARFAESI and the Tehsildar, Thane was appointed to take physical possession of the Secured Asset and the document relating thereto. Pursuant to the aforesaid, the Tehsildar, Thane on 14.02.2024 issued a notice of possession stipulating that in the event the Subsequent Transferee does not handover physical possession of the Secured Asset and the original title deeds within 15-days, then the possession shall be taken over forcefully with the assistance of the local police. 38. In light of the above, the Borrower herein preferred a Securitization Application under Section 17 of the SARFAESI Act for seeking stay of the aforesaid notice of possession dated 02.02.2024 and restraining the Bank from taking any further coercive steps in this regard, even though, it had earlier taken the stance that since the Secured Asset stood transferred by him to the Subsequent Transferee it had no role or any concern with the handing over of the physical possession. Thus, while the Borrower on one hand is remarkably contending that it has nothing to do with the failure in handing over of the Secured Asset yet in the same breath, he is purposefully engaging in various acts to subvert any and all attempts of the petitioner and the Bank herein to regain the physical possession.