The catalyst for considering these writ petitions on merits is the approval of Genetic Engineering Approval (now Appraisal) Committee (GEAC) dated 18.10.2022 culminating in the decision dated 25.10.2022 being questioned by the petitioners. It would therefore be useful to initially state the bird’s eye view of the controversy. Bird’s eye view of the controversy: 5. What does it mean to preserve, protect and respect the citizens’ right to a safe and healthy environment while exploring and experimenting with era-altering novel technologies? That is the crux of the controversy in these cases. The factual aspects of the controversy were crystallised to some extent when this Court had set up Technical Expert Committee (TEC) on 10.05.2012. 5.1 In the immediate context, these cases impugn the decision taken by GEAC to grant approval for environmental release of Dhara Mustard Hybrid-11 (DMH-11) mustard at the 147th meeting held on 18.10.2022. Whether the said approval was in compliance or in derogation of the recommendations of the TEC Report is a foundational aspect. Whether the said decision 1962 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports is in consonance with due process of law, as understood in the context of the public trust doctrine? There is also the question whether the right to a safe and healthy environment under Article 21 has been violated and whether there has been a violation of the precautionary principle. 5.2 In these cases, the said controversy has been considered from several angles. Arguments at length have been heard by us. Therefore, we propose to encapsulate the pleadings, arguments and voluminous materials that has been submitted during the course of the hearing while arriving at the findings and conclusion in this matter. Pleadings: Writ Petition (Civil) No.115 of 2004: 6. According to petitioner in Writ Petition (Civil) No.115 of 2004, namely, Gene Campaign, it is a society registered under the Societies Registration Act, 1860. It consists of lawyers, geneticists, social scientists, agriculturalists, economists, environmentalists, farmers etc. who work towards the cause of protecting genetic resources and ensuring that the rights of rural and tribal communities to access the same are not infringed. Petitioner No.2, Dr. Suman Sahai is the President of Gene Campaign, a researcher and instructor in several institutions in India and abroad. It is his considered opinion that the use of Gene Modification (GM) technology must not be permissible without having the requisite safeguards and regulatory regimes in place. 6.1 The prayers in Writ Petition (Civil) No.115 of 2004 filed by the petitioners read as under: “The petitioner therefore, prays that in the facts and circumstances of the present case, this Hon’ble Court may be pleased to issue a writ of mandamus or writ or direction of like nature to: i) direct the respondents to bring the Rules for Manufacture, Use, Import, Export and the Storage of Hazardous Micro-organisms, Genetically Engineered Organisms or Cells, 1989 in consonance with Article 14, 19, 21, 38, [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1963 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. 47, 48, 48A read with 51-A(g) of the Constitution and in the eventuality of the respondents failing to do so, declare the Rules of 1989 as unconstitutional; ii) direct the Respondents to set-up a High-Power Committee to formulate a National Policy on Genetically Engineered Organisms (GEOs) through a multi-stakeholder consultation process; iii) direct the Respondents to observe a moratorium on various permissions/approvals/trials concerning GEOs, in particular of commercial nature, particularly of crops for which India is a Centre of Origin/Diversity, till the Rules are amended and a sound Regulatory and Monitoring System is put in place; iv) pass such other and further s as this Hon’ble Court may deem fit and proper in the facts and circumstances of the case.” 7.