289. The education facilities and the other facilities that would be available to a child of a parent of the first category would be much higher, maybe the facilities for additional coaching would also be available; the atmosphere in the house will be far superior and conducive for educational upliftment. 1580 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 290. Per contra, the child of parent of the second category would be having only the bare minimum education; the facilities of coaching, etc., would be totally unavailable to him. He will be living in the company of his parents who do not have education and have not even been in a position to guide such a child. 291. As observed by Chinnappa Reddy, J., in K.C. Vasanth Kumar, a child studying in the St. Paul’s High School and St. Stephen’s College cannot be equated with a child studying in a rural school. He observed that if a child of the first category secures 90% marks and the child of the second category secures 50% of the marks, would treating both by the same standard achieve real justice. 292. It is also commonly known that disparities and social discrimination, which is highly prevalent in the rural areas, start diminishing when one travels to the urban and metropolitan areas. I have no hesitation to hold that putting a child studying in St. Paul’s High School and St. Stephen’s College and a child studying in a small village in the backward and remote area of the country in the same bracket would obliviate the equality principle enshrined in the Constitution. 293. I may note that some of the officers from the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes categories, who after receiving the benefit of reservation under the Constitution have reached high positions, are doing their bit to pay back to society. They are providing coaching and other facilities to the less advantaged so that they can compete and come up in their life. However, putting the children of the parents from the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes who on account of benefit of reservation have reached a high position and ceased to be socially, economically and educationally backward and the children of parents doing manual work in the villages in the same category would defeat the constitutional mandate. 294. However, I may observe that taking into consideration that the Constitution itself recognizes the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes to be the most backward section of the society, the parameters for exclusion from affirmative action of the person belonging to this category may not be the same that is applicable to the other classes. If a person from such a category, by bagging the benefit of reservation achieved a position of a peon or maybe a sweeper, he [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1581 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. would continue to belong to a socially, economically and educationally backward class. At the same time, the people from this category, who after having availed the benefits of reservation have reached the high echelons in life cannot be considered to be socially, economically and educationally backward so as to continue availing the benefit of affirmative action.