23. He urged that at the time of preparation of the memorandum of the post-trap proceedings (Exhibit P-11), the appellant (AO1) admitted that he had received the amount from the complainant (PW-1), offering a far-fetched explanation that the same was received as compounding fee in a case whereas, no such case was pending. It was thus, contended that this admission made by the appellant (AO1) can be read against him. The subsequent plea set up by the appellant (AO1) that the currency notes were planted by the complainant (PW-1) himself in his rexine bag without his knowledge is unacceptable on the face of record and that such frivolous defence plea was rightly discarded by the trial Court and the High Court. 24. He further urged that the appellant (AO1), having failed to offer a plausible explanation regarding the tainted currency notes found from the rexine bag in his possession and so also to the presence of phenolphthalein on the fingers of his right hand, was rightly convicted by the trial Court and his conviction was justifiably affirmed by the High Court. He thus, implored the Court to dismiss the appeal and affirm the impugned s. 650 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Discussion and Conclusion: - 25. We have given our thoughtful consideration to the submissions advanced at bar and have perused the impugned s. With the assistance of learned counsel for the parties, we have thoroughly examined the evidence available on record. 26. Since fervent arguments were raised on behalf of the parties on the aspect of demand of bribe, it would be useful to recapitulate the relevant position of law on the use of circumstantial evidence to prove demand of illegal gratification. 27. A Constitution Bench of this Court in the case of Neeraj Dutta v. State (Government of NCT of Delhi),1 was called upon to answer a reference on the question as to whether the circumstantial evidence can be relied upon to prove the demand of illegal gratification and whether in the absence of evidence of the complainant direct/primary, oral or documentary, would it be permissible to draw an inferential deduction of culpability/guilt of a public servant under Sections 7 and 13(1)(d) read with Section 13(2) of the Act based on other evidence adduced by the prosecution. This Constitution Bench traversed the entire history of the judicial pronouncements on the issue and held as below: - “88. What emerges from the aforesaid discussion is summarised as under: 88.1. (a) Proof of demand and acceptance of illegal gratification by a public servant as a fact in issue by the prosecution is a sine qua non in to establish the guilt of the accused public servant under Sections 7 and 13(1)(d)(i) and (ii) of the Act. 88.2. (b) In to bring home the guilt of the accused, the prosecution has to first prove the demand of illegal gratification and the subsequent acceptance as a matter of fact. This fact in issue can be proved either by direct evidence which can be in the nature of oral evidence or documentary evidence.