It was not challenged by any party, not even by the State of Bihar in any higher forum. 6. Subsequently, the State Authorities started claiming the entire land of 4 acre 58 decimal of C.S.P. No.332 as jalkar (pond land) which included the suit land also and thus allegedly started interfering in the possession of the plaintiff-appellant. The plaintiff-appellant having no other option after service of notice dated 09.09.2004 as contemplated by Section 80 of Code of Civil Procedure, instituted the Suit No.103/2004 ‘Ram Balak Singh, s/o late Makhan Singh vs. State of Bihar and Anr.’ for declaring his title over the suit land as described in Schedule-A to the plaint and to confirm his possession over it. 7. The aforesaid suit was instituted on the allegations as narrated above that the suit land belonged to Rambati Kuwer, the ex-landlord, who settled it in favour of Makhan Singh in 1341 fasli. The plaintiff- appellant is the adopted son of the said Makhan Singh and as such succeeded to the said land. During the consolidation proceedings on petitions/objections under Section 10(B) of the Consolidation Act, the Consolidation Officer vide and dated 12.11.1979 ruled in favour of the plaintiff-appellant and directed his name to be recorded in the record-of-rights which attained finality and has been implemented. Therefore, the State has no right, title or jurisdiction over the suit land which is in possession of the plaintiff-appellant. 8. The summons of the suit were received by the officers of the State but on their behalf no written statement was filed to controvert the plaint allegations despite several opportunities. Lastly on 04.02.2006, the right of the State to file written statement was closed and the suit was fixed for hearing under VIII Rule X of Code of Civil Procedure. Since the plaint allegations were not controverted, no issue actually arose between the parties for determination, nonetheless, the trial court after formulating the point of determination i.e. whether the plaintiff-appellant has been able to establish his case over the suit land by any cogent and reliable evidence proceeded to decide [2024] 6 S.C.R. 5 Ram Balak Singh v. State of Bihar and Anr. the suit on merits. The suit was decreed but the decree, as stated earlier, was reversed by the first appellate court and its decision was upheld by the High Court. 9. The plaintiff-appellant has now come up before this Court by filing Special Leave Petition, which on leave being granted has been registered as Civil Appeal. We have heard Ms. Nandadevi Deka, learned counsel for the appellant and Mr. Suyash Vyash, learned counsel for the respondents. 10. The primary argument advanced on behalf of the plaintiff-appellant is that he or his predecessor-in-interest is in possession of the suit land ever since it was settled in favour of Makhan Singh by the ex-landlord Rambati Kuwer. During the consolidation proceedings, the rights of the plaintiff-appellant over the said land were accepted and vide dated 12.11.1979, his name was directed to be recorded in the record-of-rights.