In our opinion, it is not possible to read this condition into Article 30(1) of the Constitution.” 130. Thus, the judgement in Kerala Education Bill [supra] does not in any way, detract from the position that the factum of establishment by the minority community was a necessary pre-condition to claim rights/protection under Article 30. There was specific emphasis laid by both sides on the phrase ‘sprinkling of outsiders’ which shall be further discussed in a subsequent portion of the . [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1965 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. 131. The subsequent judicial decisions and the evolving jurisprudence stemming from the rulings of this Court further solidify the legal position articulated above. Another significant pertinent to the analysis of the rights conferred under Article 30, particularly addressing the issue at hand, is the verdict in State of Kerala v. Very Rev. Mother Provincial, (1970) 2 SCC 417. Rendered by a bench of six Hon’ble Judges, this emphasizes how the twin rights of “establishment” and “administration” are sequential in nature under Article 30(1). It elucidates that these rights are temporally distinct, with the act of establishment preceding the entitlement to administration. This interpretation is pivotal in comprehending Article 30(1) and underscores that the right to “administer” an institution arises subsequent to its “establishment” by the minority community. The pertinent excerpts from this are cited below for reference: “8. Article 30(1) has been construed before by this Court. Without referring to those cases it is sufficient to say that the clause contemplates two rights which are separated in point of time. The first right is the initial right to establish institutions of the minority’s choice. Establishment here means the bringing into being of an institution and it must be by a minority community. It matters not if a single philanthropic individual with his own means, founds the institution or the community at large contributes the funds. The position in law is the same and the intention in either case must be to found an institution for the benefit of a minority community by a member of that community. It is equally irrelevant that in addition to the minority community others from other minority communities or even from the majority community can take advantage of these institutions. Such other communities bring in income and they do not have to be turned away to enjoy the protection. 9. The next part of the right relates to the administration of such institutions. Administration means “management of the affairs” of the institution. This management must be free of control so that the founders or their nominees can mould the institution as they think fit, and in accordance with their ideas of how the interests of the community in general and the institution in particular will be best served. 1966 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports No part of this management can be taken away and vested in another body without an encroachment upon the guaranteed right.” 132. Therefore, the “administration” right is available to the minority community which establishes the institution [or ‘their nominees’] implying that “establishing” of institution by the minority is necessary.