We read Salt Lake and China Town as the ‘locality’ in the location Kolkata to sync locality with ‘Location’. It is also significant to note another advertised location in the district of Hooghly. Sl. No. 610 indicates that in Nabagram (Konnagar), being the ‘Location’ within Shrirampur block, IOCL intended to appoint an LPG distributor. We take judicial notice of the fact that Konnagar is a town and also a municipality in the district of Hooghly with Nabagram as the locality14. However, significantly, Sl. No. 624 does not go beyond indicating Haripal as the location. 20. Judicial notice is also taken of the fact that Haripal is a community development block being part of Chandannagore sub-division, in the district of Hooghly, West Bengal. It is true that as per the Census 2011 Report downloaded from www.census2011.co.in, [being Annexure R-1/1 of the counter affidavit of HPCL filed in this proceeding], Haripal and Gopinagar are villages within Haripal block but, for reasons more than one, we are not persuaded to accept the claim of HPCL that it intended to appoint an LPG distributor at Haripal village. 21. First, the stand taken in the written notes entirely demolishes the plinth on which the impugned rests. Reference to any village or mouza, be it Haripal or Gopinagar, is rendered irrelevant in the circumstances in the light of the ‘Type of Market/Distributorship’ being shown as ‘Rurban’ in the Advertisement under Column 7, which has to be given the meaning attributed to ‘Rurban Vitrak’ in the Unified Guidelines. If appointment of a distributor were intended for a village/ 12 In terms of the definition of ‘Location’, a locality could also be a location. 13 Oil Marketing Company. 14 ‘gram’ in Nabagram is not to be mistaken for a village. [2024] 3 S.C.R. 835 Tapas Kumar Das v. Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited & Ors. mouza, i.e., Haripal, it defies logic why instead of ‘Gramin Vitrak’15, ‘Rurban Vitrak’ was shown as the ‘Type of Market/Distributorship’. It is also significant to note that if HPCL meant Haripal village as the intended location for appointment of an LPG distributor, it has not explained why there is no reference to any Gram/Village Panchayat in Part 2 (supra) although such reference is available under Part 1 (supra). This, we feel, is obvious because HPCL did not intend the distributor to cater to any rural area but a ‘Rurban’ area which comprises of both rural and urban. 22. Secondly, the contention of HPCL that Haripal as shown both under the columns ‘Block’ and ‘Location’ are not synonymous and that Haripal should be read and understood as Haripal village appears to be one advanced in desperation. The appellant, or for that matter any other individual interested in the distributorship, could not have possibly projected his own imagination and discover all the facts and circumstances that were in the contemplation of the officers of HPCL to be fulfilled by him. At the cost of repetition, Haripal under the column ‘Location’ appears to be unqualified. In the present case, Haripal being the advertised location and without mention of locality but with the ‘Type of Market/Distributorship’ being shown as ‘Rurban’, it is quite but natural for an individual to perceive that land offered for the showroom, if not located anywhere in the entire Haripal block, must at least be located within certain identifiable limits having relation with Haripal, such as the jurisdictional limits of Haripal Police Station.