The submission is that one of the plaintiffs, namely K.D. Maheshwari, had entered the witness box in his suit and he had the Power of Attorney of the other five plaintiffs. This witness, thus, had full knowledge of the facts relating to Agreement to Sell as he was present at the time of the execution of the Agreement to Sell dated 30.08.1990 as one of the agreements was in his favour. It was submitted that only a technical objection was being raised by the respondent to frustrate the valid claim of the appellants. 20.4. The High Court erred in observing that there was no readiness and willingness on the part of the plaintiff-appellants. In fact, the 2394 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports plaintiff-appellants had discharged their full burden of payment of the entire sale consideration at the time of execution of the Agreement to Sell and had also received possession of the suit schedule property. The only requirement left was of execution of the sale deed and its registration, for which, according to the appellants, they had been requesting the legal heirs of late Sushila Devi but as they declined and applied for mutation of their names, the appellants instituted the suit for decree of specific performance. It was not that any obligation on the part of the plaintiff-appellants towards Sushila Devi, or after her death her legal heirs, remained. The issue of readiness and willingness would arise where any obligation of the plaintiff-purchaser towards the seller was liable to be fulfilled and had not been fulfilled within the time that may have been stipulated in the Agreement to Sell. It is for this reason only that the time was not the essence as stated in paragraph 6 of the Agreement to Sell. 20.5. With respect to the submissions of the intervenor of being bona fide purchasers for value, it was submitted that the said intervenors would only get the rights which their vendors had and if the rights of the vendors are extinguished, no better right can be claimed by the intervenors, who are the second set of subsequent purchasers after the High Court decided the appeals by the impugned . 20.6. The High Court erred in holding that the suit was barred by limitation. Once there was no specific time frame mentioned in the Agreement to Sell for performance, in view of the second part of the Article 54 of the Limitation Act, the limitation to file the suit of three years would run from the time of refusal by the seller, which in this case arose in 1994 when the mutation proceedings were initiated. The suit was well within time as it was filed in May 1995. 20.7. The observations and the findings by the High Court regarding the vagueness of the Agreement to Sell and to declare the said document as void is also not sustainable in law and such plea could not have been raised by the seller having accepted the consideration. 20.8. The conduct of the defendants has not been correctly appreciated by the High Court which would actually disentitle [2024] 11 S.C.R.