Article 289 clause (3) empowers Parliament to declare, by law, which trade or business or any class of trades or businesses is incidental to the ordinary functions of the Government, whereupon the trades/businesses so specified go out of the purview of clause (2) of Article 289. It was held that levy of taxes on property by the Punjab Municipal Act, 1911 (as extended to Part ‘C’ State (Law) Act, 1950), the Delhi Municipal Corporation Act, 1957 and the New Delhi Municipal Council Act, 1994 (both parliamentary enactments) constitute “Union taxation” within the meaning of Article 289(1). That by virtue of the exemption provided by clause (1), taxes are not leviable on State properties but clauses (1) and (2) of Article 289 go together, form part of one scheme and have to be read together. Therefore, Municipal Laws of Delhi are inapplicable to the properties of State Government to the extent such properties are governed and saved by clause (1) of Article 289 and that insofar as the properties used or occupied for the purpose of a trade or business carried on by the State Government, the ban in clause (1) does not avail to them and the taxes thereon must be held to be valid and effective. It was observed that the levy of the property taxes under the three enactments, namely, the Delhi Municipal Corporation Act, 1957; the New Delhi Municipal Council Act, 1994 and the Punjab Municipal Act, 1911 are valid to the extent the provisions related to land and building owned by State Government and used or occupied for the purposes of any trade or business carried on by the State Government. In other words, the levy is invalid and inapplicable only to the extent of those lands or buildings which are not used or occupied for the purposes of any trade or business carried on by the State Government. That it is for the authority under the said enactment to determine with notice to the affected State Government, which land or building is used or occupied for the purpose of any trade or business carried out or on behalf of that State Government. It was further observed that the said was to operate prospectively commencing on 01.04.1996 onwards by invoking the Article 142 of the Constitution. Another aspect which was argued in the said case was that the exemption provided by clause (1) of Article 289 would not apply to [2024] 2 S.C.R. 921 Lucknow Nagar Nigam & Others v. Kohli Brothers Colour Lab. Pvt. Ltd. & Others compensatory taxes like water tax, drainage tax and so on. However, it was contended that even in respect of a composite taxes, known as property tax, insofar as the taxes on the services are concerned, the ban under clause (1) of Article 289 would not apply. However, the Court did not express any opinion on this aspect of the matter. Article 285: 21.1 Article 285 speaks about the doctrine of immunity restricting the taxing powers of the governments in a federation.