9.7. In his turn, Mr. Neeraj Kishan Kaul, learned Senior Counsel emphasized that the classification of transport vehicles under 7500 kg within the definition of Light Motor Vehicles under Section 2(21) is a broad definition, based on weight. He contended that this classification does not imply that the licensing regime under the MV Act is also determined by weight. According to the Counsel, licensing under the MV Act is linked to the intended ‘use’ of the vehicle. Specific attention was drawn to the definition of a Transport Vehicle in Section 2(47), which refers to a ‘public service vehicle’, a ‘goods carriage’, an ‘educational institution bus’ or a ‘private service vehicle’. Mr. Kaul argued that in the separate definition for each of these categories, one common factor is discernible as each provision uses words like ‘use’, ‘used or adapted to 7 [2004] Supp. 6 SCR 1141 : (2005) 2 SCC 271 564 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports be used’, ‘constructed or adapted for use’. This shows that the licensing scheme is based on usage and not the weight of the vehicle. 9.8. Mr. Tushar Mehta, Learned Solicitor General submitted that the definition under Section 2(21) which includes transport vehicles is for a different regime, set under Section 113 and 115 of MV Act. These sections are contained in Chapter VII which is titled ‘Control of Traffic’ and pertain to ‘limits of weight and limitations on use’ and ‘power to restrict the use of vehicles’. In this context, vehicles of specific weight may be prohibited from certain roads or areas thereby, making weight a relevant factor. Under the said definition of LMV, ‘weight’ has been kept as a factor for demarcation between ‘LMV’ and ‘Transport’ vehicles only for the purposes of determining the ‘road tax’. Rule 31(2) and Rule 31(3) of the Rules prescribe the syllabus for training drivers for ‘Non-Transport’ and ‘Transport’ vehicles respectively. It was submitted that the said syllabuses are not the same. Also, the MV Act provides that the minimum period of training shall not be less than 21 days for ‘Non-Transport’ vehicles, as opposed to ‘Transport’ vehicles, for which the minimum period of training shall not be less than 30 days. 9.9. In her turn, Ms. Archana Pathak Dave, learned Senior Counsel presented to the Bench a photograph of a bus weighing 7450 kg, just below the limit of 7500 kg. She argued that if a school bus is operated by someone holding a Light Motor Vehicle license, it could be very risky. It was asserted that weight should not be a determining factor for licensing, rather it may be relevant in contexts such as taxes, permits, and other regulatory considerations. Ms. Dave pointed out that Mukund Dewangan (2017) failed to acknowledge the necessity of a Form 7 endorsement for LMV license holders to drive transport vehicles. This endorsement is crucial, as LMV license holders cannot legally drive transport vehicles without it. Furthermore, Section 9(6) requires competence testing, specific to the type of vehicle, necessitating separate licenses for LMV and Transport Vehicles to maintain the MV Act’s regulatory coherence.