953 Chandigarh Administrator & Ors. & Etc. Etc. v. Manjit Kumar Gulati & Ors. & Etc. Etc. the tenant, i.e., M/s. Mohit Medicos was not served with the notice of resumption with regard to the plot in question. Admittedly, there was no document whatsoever produced by the said alleged tenant to show that it was the tenant of the original allottees - Manjit Kumar Gulati and Ors. When the original allottees themselves had failed to comply with the conditions of auction sale, and when the allotment itself made in favour of the said allottees was cancelled by the Statutory Authority after following the due process of law, i.e., by issuing show cause notice before cancellation of allotment, and when number of opportunities of hearing were given to the allottees to clear the outstanding dues, there was no question of serving any notice to the so called tenant, M/s. Mohit Medicos, especially when there was nothing on record to suggest that M/s. Mohit Medicos was the tenant of the original allottees - Manjit Kumar Gulati and Ors. The High Court had completely lost sight of the said factual aspects of the matter while allowing the writ petitions filed by the respondents – allottees and the so called tenant – M/s. Mohit Medicos. The decision of FULL Bench of Punjab and Haryana High Court relied upon by the learned senior counsel for the respondent(s) - tenant has no application to the facts of the present case, inasmuch as the respondent(s) – M/s. Mohit Medicos, by no stretch of imagination could be said to be a tenant of the original allottees, in absence of any material placed on record, to substantiate the same. The litigation carried forward by the said alleged tenant is nothing but a proxy litigation on behalf of the original allottees, who were the defaulters and an abuse of process of law. 12. In that view of the matter, the impugned passed by the High Court being erroneous is set aside. The Appeals are allowed accordingly. Result of the case: Appeals allowed. †Headnotes prepared by: Ankit Gyan