Provided further that where any partner of a firm of Chartered Accountants in practice accepts one or more tax audit assignments in his individual capacity, the total number of such assignments which may be accepted by him shall not exceed the “specified number of tax audit assignments” in the aggregate. Provided also that the audits conducted under Section 44AD, 44AE and 44AF of the Income-tax Act, 1961 shall not be taken into account for the 828 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports purpose of reckoning the “specified number of tax audit assignments”. 6.1. Explanation: For the above purpose, “the specified number of tax audit assignments” means – (a) in the case of a Chartered Accountant in practice or a proprietary firm of Chartered Accountant, 45 tax audit assignments, in a financial year, whether in respect of corporate or non-corporate assesses. (b) in the case of firm of Chartered Accountants in practice, 45 tax audit assignments per partner in the firm, in a financial year, whether in respect of corporate or non-corporate assesses. 6.1.1 In computing the “specified number of tax audit assignments” each year’s audit would be taken as a separate assignment. 6.1.2 In computing the “specified number of tax audit assignments”, the number of such assignments, which he or any partner of his firm has accepted whether singly or in combination with any other Chartered Accountant in practice or firm of such Chartered Accountants, shall be taken into account. 6.1.3 The audit of the head office and branch offices of a concern shall be regarded as one tax audit assignment. 6.1.4 The audit of one or more branches of the same concern by one Chartered Accountant in practice shall be construed as only one tax audit assignment. 6.1.5 A Chartered Accountant being a part time practicing partner of a firm shall not be taken into account for the purpose of reckoning the tax audit assignments of the firm. [2024] 6 S.C.R. 829 Shaji Poulose v. Institute of Chartered Accountants of India & Others 6.1.6 A Chartered Accountant in practice shall maintain a record of the tax audit assignments accepted by him relating to each financial year in the format as may be prescribed by the Council.” The Council at its 331st meeting held from 10th to 12th February, 2014 decided to increase the “specified number of tax audit assignments” for practicing Chartered Accountants, as an individual or as a partner in a firm, from forty-five to sixty. The said limit will be effective for the audits conducted during the financial year 2014-15 and onwards. 7.7 Section 21 refers to Disciplinary Directorate, while Section 21A deals with Board of Discipline and Section 21B deals with Disciplinary Committee. Section 21C states that the Authority, the Disciplinary Committee, Board of Discipline and the Director (Discipline) shall have the powers of a Civil Court. These provisions have to be read with the Schedules to the 1949 Act. The First Schedule of the 1949 Act deals with professional misconduct in relation to Chartered Accountants in practice and it enumerates various types of misconduct.