Digital Supreme Court Reports be expedient in public interest and import of goods of the same kind as such products have to be read in consonance with the scheme of the Entries. It would mean that if any legislation has been made by the Parliament, such as the IDRA and an industry is named in the First Schedule thereof such as “Fermentation Industries” in the instant cases, the State Legislation would be subject to the Parliamentary legislation. The said Entry is in the Concurrent List and the Parliament as well as the State Legislature have the competence to pass such laws. Then, the question that would arise, is whether, there would be repugnancy between the laws made by Parliament and laws made by a State Legislature and if so, how could it be resolved. 14.1 In this regard, Section 18G which is a part of Chapter IIIB of the IDRA could be considered. The said Section states that the Central Government, so far as it appears to be necessary or expedient for securing the equitable distribution and availability at fair prices of any article or class of articles relatable to any scheduled industry, i.e. any of the industries specified in the First Schedule of IDRA may, notwithstanding anything contained in any other provision of the IDRA by notified , provide for regulating the supply and distribution thereof and trade and commerce therein. This provision deals particularly with regard to regulation of supply and distribution, trade and commerce of any article relatable to scheduled industry. Sub- section (2) of Section 18G states that without prejudice to the generality of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of Section 18G, a notified made may provide for various aspects. Sub-section (4) of Section 18G states that no made in exercise of any power conferred by this section shall be called in question in any court. 14.2 One of the contentions raised in this batch of cases is with regard to whether the Central Government has to, in fact, issue a notified with regard to regulating the supply and distribution and trade and commerce of any article or class of articles relatable to any scheduled industry so as to indicate that the State Legislature cannot pass any legislation under Entry 33(a) - List III. In my considered view, the fact that an industry is a scheduled industry under the IDRA would imply that at any time the Central Government is empowered to issue a notified providing for regulating the supply and distribution and trade and commerce of the products of such a scheduled [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2141 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons industry. But in the absence of there being an issuance of a notified as such can the State Legislature be denuded of their powers to pass any law under Entry 33(a) - List III? 14.3 Having regard to the emerging situation in the economy in the matter of supply and distribution and trade and commerce of any article or class of articles relatable to any scheduled industry, the Central Government may issue a notified for the purpose of regulating the same so as to secure its equitable distribution and availability at fair prices of the products of such industry.