(5) The extension of period referred to in sub-section (4) may be on the application of any of the parties and may be granted only for sufficient cause and on such terms and conditions as may be imposed by the court. (6) While extending the period referred to in sub-section (4), it shall be open to the court to substitute one or all of the arbitrators and if one or all of the arbitrators are substituted, the arbitral proceedings shall continue from the stage already reached and on the basis of the evidence and material already on record, and the arbitrator(s) appointed under this section shall be deemed to have received the said evidence and material. (7) In the event of arbitrator(s) being appointed under this section, the arbitral tribunal thus reconstituted shall be deemed to be in continuation of the previously appointed arbitral tribunal. (8) It shall be open to the court to impose actual or exemplary costs upon any of the parties under this section. (9) An application filed under sub-section (5) shall be disposed of by the court as expeditiously as possible and endeavour shall be made to dispose of the matter within a period of sixty days from the date of service of notice on the opposite party.” 4. Earlier, the Arbitration Act, 1940, stipulated in its First Schedule that the arbitral award must be made within four months from the date of reference, or from the date the arbitrator was called upon to act 480 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports by notice, or within any extended time granted thereafter.13 Section 28(1) of the Arbitration Act, 1940, empowered the court to extend the time for making an award, irrespective of whether the original time had expired or whether the award had already been made. As per Section 28(2) of the Arbitration Act, 1940, parties could extend the time for making an award by mutual consent.14 Prior to the enactment of Section 29A, the A & C Act did not specify a time limit for making an arbitral award. This was deliberate, given the fact that the First Schedule and Section 28 of the Arbitration Act, 1940 led to litigation and delay. Section 29A, as quoted above, was inserted by Act No. 3 of 201615 with retrospective effect from 23.10.2015. The 13 Paragraph 3 to the First Schedule of the Arbitration Act, 1940 reads: “3. The arbitrators shall make their award within four months after entering on the reference or after having been called upon to act by notice in writing from any party to the arbitration agreement or within such extended time as the Court may allow.” 14 “28. Power to Court only to enlarge time for making award.— (1) The Court may, if thinks fit, whether the time for making the award has expired or not and whether the award has been made or not, enlarge from time to time the time for making the award. (2) Any provision in an arbitration agreement whereby the arbitrators or umpire may except with the consent of all the parties to the agreement, enlarge the time for making the award, shall be void and of no effect.” 15 Section 29A was inserted in the A & C Act vide the Arbitration and Conciliation (Amendment) Act, 2015 (Act No.