Transfer how effected.—For the purpose of making a gift of immoveable property, the transfer must be effected by a registered instrument signed by or on behalf of the donor, and attested by at least two witnesses. For the purpose of making a gift of moveable property, the transfer may be effected either by a registered instrument signed as aforesaid or by delivery. Such delivery may be made in the same way as goods sold may be delivered. 16. Under TPA a valid gift can be made without giving immediate possession to the donee as has been held by this Court in Renikuntla Rajamma v. K. Sarwanamma (2014) 9 SCC 445 where it was held that section 123 of TPA supersedes Hindu Law and delivery of possession is not an essential requirement for the gift to be valid under provisions of TPA. Nevertheless, in Punjab and in all other places of North India where Mitakshara law was applicable, gift of land usually was accompanied by handing over possession to the donee, as there was no purpose of enjoying land without being in its possession.3 In other words, in cases governed by Hindu Law, possession is an extremely important ingredient where validity of the gift is to be determined. Since TPA was not in force, delivery of possession which has been done in the present case has an important bearing. In the present case, the admitted fact is that the plaintiffs have never questioned the validity of the gift given by their forefathers to the defendants. Their entire case, in fact, depends on a valid gift of land of which they admit possession was also given along with the gift deed in the year 1953 itself. Their case is that, the gift has to be revoked now for non-fulfillment of certain conditions. Plaintiffs have also, in other words, admitted that the defendants are in peaceful possession of this land since the date of gift. 3 We must note here that both the donor and the donees were Hindus. 706 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports There is another aspect to the entire case. What are those conditions of which a violation is being alleged? The condition is that the defendants have discontinued to serve the successors of the donor i.e. plaintiffs. Can such a condition ever be part of a gift? This is the first question; the Trial Court and the Appellate Court should have asked. Although Section 127 of TPA permits an onerous gift but a gift which is conditioned upon perpetual rendering of services without any remuneration would amount to a “begar” or forced labour, even slavery and therefore it is not just wrong or illegal but even unconstitutional, being violative of fundamental rights of the donees. It has to be remembered that this so-called rendering of “services”, was to be in perpetuity. It has to go on forever. What would this be, if not “begar” or forced labour. We must also remember that when the gift deed was executed the Constitution of India had already been enforced.