[2024] 1 S.C.R. 623 : 2024 INSC 49 Mariam Fasihuddin & Anr. v. State by Adugodi Police Station & Anr. (Criminal Appeal No. 335 of 2024) 22 January 2024 [Surya Kant* and Dipankar Datta, JJ.] Issue for Consideration The crux of respondent No. 2’s allegations is that the appellants purportedly forged his signature on the passport application submitted to obtain the minor child’s passport. Whether the actions of the appellants prima facie constitute the offence of cheating u/s. 420 IPC; Whether there has been a prima facie case made out for forgery u/ss. 468 and 471 IPC; Whether there has been a violation of s.12(b) of the Passports Act, 1967; Whether in the absence of any new evidence found to substantiate the conclusions drawn by the investigating officer in the supplementary report, a Judicial Magistrate was compelled to take cognizance, as such a report lacked investigative rigour and failed to satisfy the requisites of s.173(8) Cr.P.C. Headnotes Penal Code, 1860 – Cheating and Forgery – Appellants’ prayer to discharge them u/ss. 420, 468, 471, 120-B, 201 r/w. s.34 of IPC was dismissed by the High Court – Propriety: Held: In the peculiar facts and circumstances of the case, the appellant-wife seems to have breached the notion of mutual marital trust and unauthorizedly projected respondent no. 2’s consent in obtaining the passport for their minor child – It, however, remains a question as to how such an act can be labelled as ‘deceitful’ – The motivations prompting either of the appellants to procure a passport for the minor child were not rooted in deceit – Furthermore, the grant of passport to the minor child did not confer any benefit upon the appellan-wife, nor did it result in any loss or damage to respondent no. 2 – In the same vein, appellant no. 2, being the father of the appellant-wife and assisting in securing the passport for the child, derived no direct or indirect benefit from this action – This grant can be best characterised as the minor * Author 624 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports child’s acquisition of property – Since the gain by the minor child is not at the cost of any loss, damage or injury to respondent no. 2, both the fundamental elements of ‘deceit’ and ‘damage or injury’, requisite for constituting the offence of cheating are conspicuously absent in this factual scenario – As far as forgery is concerned, the offences of ‘forgery’ and ‘cheating’ intersect and converge, as the act of forgery is committed with the intent to deceive or cheat an individual – The determination of whether the appellants prepared a false document, by forging respondent no. 2’s signature, however, cannot be even prima facie ascertained at this juncture – Considering the primary ingredient of dishonest intention itself could not be established against the appellants, the offence of forgery too, has no legs to stand – The elementary ingredients of ‘cheating’ and ‘forgery’ are conspicuously missing – Thus, the continuation of the criminal proceedings against the appellants is nothing but an abuse of the process of law – The impugned s of the High Court and the trial Court are set aside.