At the cost of repetition, it is stated that Entry 50 - List II never came for consideration in the aforesaid case. c. Parliament is not using its residuary power with respect to imposing any limitation on the taxing power of the State under Entry 50 – List II. In fact, even the Validation Act, 1992 enacted by Parliament was upheld having regard to Entry 54 - List I read with Section 2 of the MMDR Act, 1957 and not Entry 97 - List I. 1844 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports d. Entry 50 - List II envisages that Parliament can impose “any limitations” on the legislative field created by that Entry under a law relating to mineral development. The MMDR Act, 1957 has imposed the limitations as envisaged in Entry 50 - List II in Sections 9, 9A and 25, etc. on the strength of Entry 54 – List I. e. I, however, concur with the learned Chief Justice that the scope of the expression “any limitations” under Entry 50 - List II is wide enough to include the imposition of restriction, conditions, principles as well as a prohibition by Parliament by law. f. The State legislatures have legislative competence under Article 246 read with Entry 49 - List II to tax lands and buildings but not lands which comprise of mines and quarries or have mineral deposits as mineral bearing lands do not fall within the description of lands (under Entry 49 - List II). Similarly, States can tax such mineral bearing lands which are not covered within the scope of MMDR Act, 1957 i.e., minor minerals, under Entry 50 – List II and not under Entry 49 – List II as tax on exercise of mineral rights. Thus, mineral bearing lands cannot be taxed under Entry 49 – List II. g. Further, the yield of mineral bearing lands, in terms of quantity of mineral produced or royalty paid cannot also be used as a measure to tax such lands under Entry 49 - List II. In my view, the decision in Goodricke does not apply to the present case and hence does not require any clarification. h. Entries 49 and 50 - List II, no doubt, operate in different fields. Entry 49 - List II deals with taxes on lands and buildings but Entry 50 - List II deals with taxes on mineral rights subject to any limitations imposed by Parliament by law relating to mineral development. There is no constitutional limitation on the competence of the State legislature to tax lands and buildings. However, the State’s competence to tax mineral rights is subject to any limitations imposed by the Parliament by law relating to mineral development. Entry 49 - List II and Entry 50 - List II are distinct and operate in distinct ways. Entry 49 - List II does not apply to mineral bearing lands as such lands are taxed in the form of royalty or dead rent in the context of exercise of mineral rights.