[Para 182] 3.2 The Members often lack the domain knowledge required to appreciate the nuanced complexities involved in high-stake insolvency matters in to properly adjudicate such matters – One of the salutary objects of the Code, 2016 is to protect the assets of the corporate entity in a timely manner and take prompt decisions, however, it has become a practice of the NCLT(s) and NCLAT to ignore the urgent mentionings and listings of time-sensitive matters and show no deference to long-pending matters resulting in value erosion of the assets of the Corporate Debtor and rendering their insolvency resolution process a foregone conclusion – Over a period of time, this Court has noticed the growing tendency amongst Members of the NCLT(s) and NCLAT to ignore the s of this Court or act in its defiance – Any act of contravention of this Court’s and the larger rubric of judicial propriety will not be tolerated – 2050 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports The NCLT(s) and the NCLAT must seriously rethink their approach towards admission and disposal of insolvency matters, they should not act as a mere rubberstamping authority and must take their roles seriously in ensuring time-bound hearings and resolutions – Proper and effective hearings, both virtually and in-court, must be given to insolvency matters of public importance, and the NCLT(s) and NCLAT(s) must earnestly work towards ensuring that the IBC, 2016 achieves its avowed object. [Para 183] 3.3 One another serious issue pertaining to the functioning of the NCLTs and NCLAT is that there is often a shortage of members in the Tribunals and inadequate infrastructure to support their functioning – These vacancies heavily impact the insolvency reform initiative undertaken by the government since they lead to operational inefficiencies – Consequently, the strict timelines provided in Section 12 of the IBC, 2016 are not complied with – Filling such vacancies with experts having adequate domain knowledge in the field must be prioritized along with addressing the infrastructure needs of the Tribunals to prevent any adverse effect on the resolution process – There must be strict mandates regarding the functioning of the Tribunals within its normal working hours – The appointment of new members must be done in a manner such that it coincides with the date of retirement of the sitting members in a seamless manner to avoid such operational inefficiencies – Persons with high ideals & impeccable integrity should be appointed as Members in the NCLT as well as NCLAT – There should be no political appointment. [Para 184] Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 – s.62 – Exercise of the jurisdiction under – Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 – s.100 – “substantial question of law”, when arises – Discussed. [Paras 87-90] Case Law Cited IFCI Ltd. v. Sutanu Sinha and Others [2023] 15 SCR 280 : 2023 SCC OnLine SC 1529; Chandrabhan (Deceased) Through Lrs. And Others v. Saraswati and Others [2022] 7 SCR 295 : 2022 SCC OnLine SC 1273; Maria Colaco and Another v. Alba Flora Herminda D’souza and Others (2008) 5 SCC 268; Abdul Raheem v. [2024] 11 S.C.R.