The court at the referral stage can interfere only when it is manifest that the claims are ex facie time- barred and dead, or there is no subsisting dispute. All other cases should be referred to the Arbitral Tribunal for decision on merits. Similar would be the position in case of disputed “no-claim certificate” or defence on the plea of novation and “accord and satisfaction”. As observed in Premium Nafta Products Ltd. [Fili Shipping Co. Ltd. v. Premium Nafta Products Ltd., 2007 UKHL 40 : 2007 Bus LR 1719 (HL)] , it is not to be expected that commercial men while entering transactions inter se would knowingly create a system which would require that the court should first decide whether the contract should be rectified or avoided or rescinded, as the case may be, and then if the contract is held to be valid, it would require the arbitrator to resolve the issues that have arisen. xxx xxx xxx 154.4. Rarely as a demurrer the court may interfere at Section 8 or 11 stage when it is manifestly and ex facie certain that the arbitration agreement is non-existent, invalid or the disputes are non-arbitrable, though the nature and facet of non-arbitrability would, to some extent, determine the level and nature of judicial scrutiny. The restricted and limited review is to check and protect parties from being forced to arbitrate when the matter is demonstrably 124 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “non-arbitrable” and to cut off the deadwood. The court by default would refer the matter when contentions relating to non-arbitrability are plainly arguable; when consideration in summary proceedings would be insufficient and inconclusive; when facts are contested; when the party opposing arbitration adopts delaying tactics or impairs conduct of arbitration proceedings. This is not the stage for the court to enter into a mini trial or elaborate review so as to usurp the jurisdiction of the Arbitral Tribunal but to affirm and uphold integrity and efficacy of arbitration as an alternative dispute resolution mechanism.” (Emphasis supplied) 33. In Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited and Another v. Nortel Networks India Private Limited reported in (2021) 5 SCC 738, the notice invoking arbitration was issued 5 ½ years after the cause of action arose, i.e., rejection of the claims of Nortel by BSNL and the claim was therefore held to be ex facie time-barred. This Court clarified that the period of limitation for filing a petition seeking appointment of an arbitrator(s) cannot be confused or conflated with the period of limitation applicable to substantive claims made in the underlying commercial contract. By placing reliance on Vidya Drolia (supra) it was held that, a referral court exercising its jurisdiction under section 11 may decline to make the reference in a very limited category of cases, where there is not even a vestige of doubt that the claim is ex facie time-barred. The relevant observations are reproduced hereinbelow: "44. The issue of limitation which concerns the “admissibility” of the claim, must be decided by the Arbitral Tribunal either as a preliminary issue, or at the final stage after evidence is led by the parties.