Cane Unions Federations v. West UP Sugar Mills Association (2004) 5 SCC 430 [20]; Balmer Lawrie & Company Limited v. Partha Sarathi Sen Roy (2013) 8 SCC 345 [24] 187 Subramanian Swamy v. State of Tamil Nadu (2014) 5 SCC 75 [67] 188 Lord Provost and Magistrates of Glasgow v. Faire (1888) [L.R] 13 App. Cas. 657 1656 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports purposes of searching for or obtaining minerals189 and to include the place where such excavation is carried on.190 The Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions Code 2020191 has adopted a similar definition of mine under Section 2(1)(zl). The Working Conditions Code also defines “minerals” to mean all substances which can be obtained from the earth by mining, digging, drilling, dredging, hydraulicing, quarrying or by any other operation and to include mineral oils.192 These definitions are indicative of the fact that: (i) the expression “mines” includes both the process by which minerals are extracted from the earth as well as the place where such extraction takes place; and (ii) minerals are obtained from the mine by the process of mining. 137. The expression “regulation of mines” can be understood in the backdrop of above discussion to mean the management of both the process of extracting minerals as well the place where such minerals will be extracted from sub-surface levels. The MMDR 189 Section 2(j) “mine” means any excavation where any operation for the purpose of searching for or obtaining minerals has been or is being carried on and include – (i) All borings, bore holes, oil wells and accessory crude conditions plants, including the pipe conveying mineral oil within the oil fields; (ii) All shafts, in or adjacent to and belonging to a mine, whether in the course of being sunk or not; (iii) All levels and inclined planes in the course of being driven; (iv) All open cast workings; (v) All conveyers or aerial rope-ways provided for bringing into or removal from a mine of minerals or other articles or for the removal of refuse therefrom; (vi) All adits, levels, planes, machinery, works, railways, tramways and sidings in or adjacent to and belonging to a mine; (vii) All protective works being carried out in or adjacent to a mine; (viii) All workshops and stores situated within the precincts of a mine and under the same management and used primarily for the purposes connected with that mine or a number of mines under the same management; (ix) All power stations, transformer sub-substations, convertor stations, rectifier stations and accumulator, storage stations for supplying electricity or mainly for the purpose of working the mine or a number of mines under the same management; (x) Any premises for the time being used for depositing sand or other material for use in a mine or for depositing refuse from a mine or in which any operations in connection with such sand, refuse or other material is being carried on, being premises exclusively occupied by the owner of mine; (xi) Any premises in or adjacent to and belonging to a mine on which any process ancillary to the getting dressing or preparation for the sale of minerals or of coke is being carried on.