[2024] 4 S.C.R. 518 : 2024 INSC 311 Wg Cdr A U Tayyaba (retd) & Ors. v. Union of India & Ors. (Miscellaneous Application Diary No. 8208 of 2024) 15 April 2024 [Dr. Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI, J B Pardiwala and Manoj Misra, JJ.] Issue for Consideration Matter pertains to clarification of the passed by this Court as regards grant of pensionary benefits to the women Short Service Commissioned Officers in Armed Forces. Headnotes Armed Forces – Women Short Service Commissioned Officers – Pensionary benefits – by this Court granting one time pensionary benefits to the women Short Service Commissioned Officers on basis that they have completed the minimum qualifying service of twenty years, required for pension – Eligible officers in terms thereof, not entitled to any arrears of salary, but the arrears of pension payable with effect from the date on which the officers are deemed to have completed twenty years of service – Pursuant thereto, women officers were released from service at the end of the fourteenth year and for computing the pension, salary was taken as the last drawn salary as of the date of the release, and no increments were granted to the applicants between the date of release and the date on which they are deemed to have completed twenty years service in terms of the aforesaid – Applicants case that directions not correctly interpreted, once the applicants have been treated to have completed the minimum qualifying service required for pension, the last drawn salary must be taken as on that date and increments have to be computed for pension: Held: by this Court granting one time pensionary benefits to the women Short Service Commissioned Officers clarified – Pensionary payments would have to be computed on the basis of the salary on the date of the deemed completion of twenty years – Women SSCOs entitled to notional increments between [2024] 4 S.C.R. 519 Wg Cdr A U Tayyaba (retd) & Ors. v. Union of India & Ors. the date of release and the date on which they have completed the minimum qualifying period for pension, namely, the deemed completion of twenty years – On basis thereof, the one time pensionary payment due in terms of the previous revised and arrears due and payable to be paid within the stipulated period – Issues as regards the computation of the commuted value of the pensionary payment, encashment of annual leave, and grant of ECHS benefits also clarified. [Paras 11] List of Keywords Pensionary benefits; Women Short Service Commissioned Officers; One time pensionary benefits; Minimum qualifying service required for pension; Arrears of salary; Arrears of pension; Last drawn salary; Date of the release; Increments; Notional increments; Computation of the commuted value of the pensionary payment; Encashment of annual leave; Grant of ECHS benefits. Case Arising From CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Miscellaneous Application Diary No. 8208 of 2024 In Civil Appeal Nos. 79-82 of 2022 From the and dated 16.11.2022 of the Supreme Court of India in C.A. No. 79, 80, 81 and 82 of 2012 Appearances for Parties Ms. Pooja Dhar, Ms. S. Ambica, Ms. Anshula Vijay Kumar Grover, Advs.