His submission is that such right of appeal 282 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports would stand lost if the High Court itself had examined the second supplementary charge-sheet and decided the question of bail in favour of the appellant-accused. These are cogent arguments, but we must not lose sight of the fact that we are concerned here with the question of liberty of a pre-trial detenue, who is a senior citizen, in custody for almost six years, against whom charges are yet to be framed. The question of losing right of an appellate forum would have greater significance in substantive proceedings but on the question of bail, in a proceeding where the detenue herself has volunteered to forego an appellate forum by arguing before us her case for bail, the approach of this Court would be to address the question on merit, rather than to send it back to the Court of first instance for examining the materials available against the appellant. 18. This argument of the prosecution would have had stronger impact if the last charge-sheet, which the first bail Court could not examine, had disclosed any new or egregious set of accusations against the appellant, far removed from those contained in the earlier charge- sheets. We have gone through the second supplementary chargesheet but do not find disclosure of any such material. This question shall be examined by us in the subsequent paragraphs of this . 19. Another point urged by Mr. Nataraj was that the entirety of incriminating material in the chargesheets, which forms the basis for implicating the appellant did not form part of petition for special leave to appeal and to that extent the investigating agency did not have full opportunity to meet the appellant’s case. But as would be evident from various paragraphs of this , these materials were brought on record and both parties had the opportunity to consider these materials and advance submissions on that basis. This is not a case where equitable relief is snatched ex-parte, for instance in case of an ad-interim injunction, by not bringing to the notice of the Court the entire factual basis of a given case. In this appeal, both the parties have had sufficient opportunity to deal with the relevant materials and the appellant cannot be non-suited on the sole ground of non-disclosure of such materials. 20. We shall now test the appellant’s claim for bail on merit. Having regard to the proviso to Section 43D (5)1 of 1967 Act, the Court hearing the 1 43-D. Modified application of certain provisions of the Code. 1) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code or any other law, every offence punishable under [2024] 4 S.C.R. 283 Shoma Kanti Sen v. The State of Maharashtra & Anr. question of bail is under duty to scan through the case diary or report made under Section 173 of the Code for the purpose of forming an opinion to the effect that there are reasonable grounds for believing that the accusation against the appellant is prima facie true.