Digital Supreme Court Reports Clause 29A of Article 366 of the Constitution of India, which provides that the tax on the sale and purchase of goods includes a tax on the transfer of the right to use any goods for any purpose (whether or not for a specified period) for cash, deferred payment or other valuable consideration. He pointed out that by this amendment to the Constitution of India, by way of legal fiction, six cases of transactions were treated as deemed sale of goods. Therefore, ‘deemed sale’ must be read in every provision wherever the phrase ‘tax on sale and purchase of goods’ appears. He pointed out the decisions that cover the contingencies covered by sub-clauses (a) to (f) of Clause 29A of Article 366 of the Constitution of India. As far as sub-clause (d) is concerned, he relied upon the decision of the High Court of Madras in the case of A. V. Meiyappan v. Commissioner of Commercial Taxes, Board of Revenue, Madras & Anr.4. 5. Coming to the Sales Tax Act, the learned counsel pointed out that the same was repealed by virtue of Section 107 of the VAT Act. He submitted that the VAT Act is in conformity with the 46th Amendment to the Constitution of India. He also pointed out the view taken by the High Court of Tripura in the s and s dated 3rd November 2014 and 29th February 2016, wherein the said High Court, after analysing the similar contract, came to the conclusion that the said transaction did not involve any transfer of right to use. 6. He pointed out that the question will be whether the transactions subject matter of these appeals constitute deemed sales within the meaning of Section 2(43)(iv) of the VAT Act with effect from 1st May 2005. He submitted that if the said provisions of the VAT Act are not applicable, the transactions will be subject to service tax under Section 65(105)(zzzzj) of the Finance Act, 1994 (for short, ‘the Finance Act’). On facts, he pointed out that the agreement subject matter of Civil Appeal nos.3566-3569 of 2017 specifically provided that the transactions in question would not be by way of lease or transfer of right to use the vehicle/equipment. 7. He mainly relied upon the concurring view of the Hon’ble Dr.Justice AR Lakshmanan in the case of Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors.5 He relied upon what is held in paragraph 4 (1967) 20 STC 115 (Madras) 5 (2006) 3 SCC 1 [2024] 1 S.C.R. 495 M/s. K.P. Mozika v. Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Ltd. and Ors. 97 of the said decision. He submitted that the five tests laid down therein can be called the Panchratna Test. His submission is that at no point was the complete and exclusive dominion of cranes, and other vehicles passed on to ONGC in view of the express terms of the contracts in question. He pointed out that in the present case, the employees on cranes worked for the contractor and not for ONGC.