As per Design Tech, royalty and subscription were paid to Skillar, as they developed the software and Skillar had directly supplied the same to the Skill Development Centres in Andhra Pradesh. As recorded in the under appeal, when the tax authorities confronted Skillar, they took a stand that no technical work was sub-contracted and the training software development modules, which were provided, were technical materials. According to Skillar royalty and subscription were wrongly mentioned in the invoices. It appears that an in-depth scrutiny by the tax authorities showed that the concerned software including various sub-modules purported to have been supplied by Skillar to Design Tech was purchased by Skillar from different companies. It is also the State’s stand that these companies were shell/defunct companies and they had issued invoices without providing any services and that they were used as vehicles for diverting funds. The APSSDC had conducted a forensic audit in the year 2020 and the audit found flaws and irregularities in the systems and in utilisation of funds between the financial years 2014-2015 and 2018-2019. 5. As per the investigating authorities a sum of Rs.370/- crores from the government funds of the APSSDC has been siphoned off. Case of the State against the appellant is that he was the mastermind, who had unilaterally appointed G. Subbarao and K Lakshminarayana [2024] 1 S.C.R. 557 Nara Chandrababu Naidu v. The State of Andhra Pradesh & Anr. (accused nos. 1 and 2) as MD and CEO, and Director for the Skill Development Corporation without getting approval from the Andhra Pradesh Cabinet. It was the appellant who had approved the same and as per his instruction, Memorandum of Association and Articles of Association of APSSDC were also approved. As per estimation, costs for six clusters, were projected as Rs.3319.68 crores but the private participants did not infuse any fund as per their original obligation. It is recorded in the impugned judgement that the Andhra Pradesh Cabinet headed by the appellant at the instance of the accused no.1 had approved sanction of a budget of Rs.370/- crores towards 10% contribution of the government in the project and G.O.Ms. No.4 dated 30.06.2015 was issued to that effect. The main complaint against the appellant is that he had fast tracked the project and approved the cost estimation with criminal intent and by pursuing the government officials, he had ensured release of Rs.370/- crores. The project was allotted to Design Tech and SIEMENS on nomination basis, without following any tender process. Misappropriation of government funds through corrupt and illegal methods has been alleged and abuse of official position has been attributed to the appellant. Summary of the allegations against the appellant is revealed from the Memorandum dated 08.09.2023, filed on behalf of the prosecution, for adding the appellant as an accused. These allegations, inter-alia, are to the following effect: - “….A-37 by abusing his (A-37) official position, fraudulently committed criminal breach of trust with a common intention, caused wrongful loss to the Government exchequer by allowing accused and others to divert APSSDC funds by using fake invoices as genuine one for purpose of cheating through the shell, defunct companies without providing materials/services to the APSSDC-Siemens project.” 6.