While he was returning home, and had reached near Sector 17, Panchkula, a Maruti car obstructed his path. Three persons came out of the car from which one was carrying a pistol. The said assailant placed the pistol against his head and asked him to shift to the adjoining seat. The second assailant armed with a knife occupied the rear seat. He was then directed to shift to the rear seat. His wrist watch, ATM card, school card, gold chain and some money lying in his pocket were robbed at pistol and knife point. In the meantime, the third assailant who was also armed with a knife took the driver’s seat and his car was driven towards the pulia where Sachin Garg(PW-2) was blindfolded and shifted into the Maruti car and was taken away to some unknown location. He was kept confined in a room during the intervening night of 2nd and 3rd April, 2003. A person named Gaurav Bhalla was present in the room and he was calling out names of the other accused as Sanjay, Mintu and Gaurav. He was again blindfolded in the evening and was taken in a car and was dropped off at the market of Sector 20, Panchkula with the instruction to remove the blindfold(patti) after 10 minutes and stand there and wait for his father. The accused threatened to eliminate his entire family in case intimation of the incident was given to the police. On returning home, he came to know that his father had paid an amount of Rs. 1 crore for securing his release. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 341 Gaurav Maini v. The State of Haryana 10. Further investigation revealed that Gaurav Maini was using Mobile No. 9814XXXXXX, Gaurav Bhalla was using Mobile No. 9814XXXXXX and Sanjay @ Sanju was using Mobile No. 9814XXXXXX. 11. Based on the statements of Mahesh Garg(PW-1) and Sachin Garg(PW-2), offences punishable under Sections 392, 342, 364A and 506 IPC were added to the case on 20th April, 2003. 12. The accused Pankaj Bansal, Gobind, Amit Verma and Gaurav Maini were arrested on 29th April, 2003. It is alleged that Gaurav Maini suffered a disclosure statement under Section 27 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872(hereinafter being referred to as ‘Evidence Act’) divulging that he, along with Gaurav Bhalla, Sanjay @ Sanju and Munish Bhalla had kidnapped Sachin Garg(PW-2), who was released after collecting an amount of Rs.1 crore as ransom. The accused Gaurav Bhalla was arrested on 1st May, 2003 and he too suffered a disclosure statement under Section 27 of the Evidence Act. Likewise, the accused Munish Bhalla and Sanjay @ Sanju also made disclosures to the Investigating Officer(PW-37) under Section 27 of the Evidence Act. 13. Following items were allegedly recovered at the instance and in furtherance of the disclosures made by the accused appellants being Gaurav Maini(A1), Gaurav Bhalla(A2), Munish Bhalla(A3) and Sanjay @ Sanju(A4): - Name of Recovered Articles Accused (i) A wristwatch of Sachin. (ii) Currency notes to the tune of Rs.