Following the decision in All India Judges’ Association (supra), rules were framed in various States to comply with the directions. Subsequently, many High Courts found it difficult to fill up 25 percent posts through the limited departmental competitive examination. [2024] 2 S.C.R. 1157 Dr Kavita Kamboj v. High Court of Punjab and Haryana & Ors Therefore, in All India Judges’ Association v. Union of India,8 this Court reduced the quota of judicial officers from the limited competitive examination from 25 percent to 10 percent. As a consequence, three sources of recruitment to the Higher Judicial Service have come into being: (i) 65% of seats by promotion from the cadre of Civil Judges (Senior Division) on the basis of the principle of merit-cum-seniority; (ii) 10% by promotion on the basis of merit through a limited competitive examination for Civil Judges (Senior Division) fulfilling stipulated qualifying service; and (iii) 25% seats by direct recruitment from amongst advocates who fulfill the eligibility requirements. 32. It has been argued that since the Shetty Commission held that no minimum cutoffs should be fixed for the viva voce for the route of direct appointments (under Rule 6(1)(c)), and the findings of the Shetty Commission were upheld by the Court in All India Judges’ Association (supra), it would be unreasonable to prescribe minimum cutoffs for viva voce for another method of recruitment to the same post. 33. The Rules under consideration preserve the three sources of recruitment, in the ratio of 65% by promotion based on merit-cum- seniority, 10% strictly on the basis of merit by a limited competitive examination; and 25% by direct recruitment from amongst eligible candidates based on the written and viva voce test. Each of the three sources of recruitment is distinct in itself. Recruitment by promotion under Rule 6(1)(a) is based on the principle of merit- cum-seniority and passing of a suitability test, while recruitment by promotion under Rule 6(1)(b) is strictly based on merit through a limited competitive examination and 5 years of minimum qualifying service as Civil Judges. The purpose of three sources of recruitment is similarly distinct. Advocates with the requisite experience are permitted to compete for direct recruitment to the Superior Judicial Service. In-service judicial officers have two avenues for entering the Superior Judicial Service: they can either appear for a limited competitive examination where selection would be strictly based on 8 (2010) 15 SCC 170 1158 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports merit or they can seek a promotion through the normal channel of promotion based on the merit-cum-seniority criterion. 34. In to appreciate the classification between the three categories of recruitment to the Higher Judicial Service, it would be necessary to dwell on the modalities or the procedure for recruitment. Direct recruitment, for which a 25% quota is set apart by Rule 6(1)(c), is made on the basis of a written examination consisting of 750 marks and a viva voce of 250 marks. While recording the submissions of Mr Nidhesh Gupta, senior counsel appearing on behalf of the High Court, we have already adverted to the manner in which the written test comprising of 750 marks is conducted, comprising of three law papers, a language paper and a paper in general knowledge.