But in the instant case, the respondent is seeking setting aside of the dated 23.02.2015 passed in Criminal Miscellaneous No.6/2014 and with an additional prayer for seeking return of the entire amount of maintenance paid by the respondent to the appellant on the ground of fraud. Learned counsel for the appellant submitted that such prayers are not maintainable. She contended that the aforesaid application is not for alteration, modification or revocation of an made under the Act; it is in substance for setting aside of the dated 23.02.2015 passed in Criminal Miscellaneous No.6/2014; that such an application is not maintainable at all. 8. Learned counsel further submitted that the High Court as well as the Appellate Court were not right in remanding the matter to the learned Magistrate to consider the application filed by the respondent herein under sub-section (2) of Section 25 of the Act. She therefore submitted that the impugned s may be set aside and the application filed by the respondent may be dismissed and consequently, the earlier passed on 23.02.2015 in Criminal Miscellaneous No.6/2014 may be given effect to while sustaining the dated 04.03.2020, by which the application under Section 25 of the Act was dismissed. 9. Per contra, learned counsel for the respondent submitted that the reason as to why the application under Section 25 of the Act was filed was owing to the fact that the appellant herein had misrepresented the fact that she was in need of maintenance whereas she is an employed person and not at all in need of maintenance. The fact that she had said that she was unemployed goes to the root of the matter and hence, despite the of the learned Magistrate awarding Rs.12,000/- (Rupees Twelve Thousand Only) per month as maintenance having attained finality, an application under Section [2024] 10 S.C.R. 49 S. Vijikumari v. Mowneshwarachari C 25 of the Act was filed seeking revocation of the said and the Appellate Court as well as the High Court were justified in directing the learned Magistrate to consider the said application. 10. We have considered the arguments advanced at the Bar in light of the facts of this case and Section 25 of the Act. For immediate reference, Section 25 of the Act is extracted as under: “25. Duration and alteration of s (1) A protection made under section 18 shall be in force till the aggrieved person applies for discharge. (2) If the Magistrate, on receipt of an application from the aggrieved person or the respondent, is satisfied that there is a change in the circumstances requiring alteration, modification or revocation of any made under this Act, he may, for reasons to be recorded in writing pass such , as he may deem appropriate.” On a reading of the same, it is evident that an aggrieved person or a respondent as defined under the Act can seek for alteration, modification or revocation of an made under the provisions of the Act if there is a change in the circumstances as per sub-section (2) of Section 25 of the Act.