Ltd., and Starwing Developers Private Limited, allowed the writ petition and directed that TDR be issued to the petitioner therein. 848 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Submissions: 8. We have heard the arguments of the respective Senior Counsel and other Counsel on both sides and perused the material on record. Submissions on behalf of the Appellants: 8.1 Learned senior counsel, Sri Pravin Samdani, contended that the impugned dated 18.12.2018 has, in fact, upheld petitioners’ right to 100% additional TDR and has applied the of this Court in Godrej & Boyce I. However, reliefs were declined to certain writ petitioners on the ground of delay and laches in claiming the additional TDR in time. Consequently, the writ petitions were dismissed by the High Court. Being aggrieved by the dismissal of the writ petitions, the writ petitioners before the High Court have preferred these appeals. Therefore, this Court may reverse the finding of the High Court on the issue of the delay and laches and grant the reliefs to these appellants as the other writ petitioners have been granted by the High Court. 8.2 In this regard, it was submitted that the compensation payable to the landowners/lessees for acquisition of their land for a public purpose is, in fact, held in trust by the acquiring body, i.e., the Mumbai Municipal Corporation in the instant case. Once the compensation is determined, the same was payable and the reliefs could not have been denied by the High Court on the ground of delay or laches. In this context, reliance was placed on Noida Entrepreneur Association vs. NOIDA (2011) 6 SCC 508 (Para 38-39) (“Noida Entrepreneur Association”). 8.3 It was next submitted that the State is the guardian or custodian and protector of the rights of the citizens. This casts a duty and obligation on the State to pay compensation to land losers for lands compulsorily acquired. The right to receive a fair compensation is a constitutional right guaranteed under Article 300A of the Constitution of India which can also be traced to Article 21 of the Constitution of India as a citizen cannot be deprived of his property, save in accordance with law. It was contended that the mandate of Section 126(1)(b) of the MRTP Act and the DCR be complied with by the [2024] 9 S.C.R. 849 Kukreja Construction Company & Others v. State of Maharashtra & Others respondent-Mumbai Municipal Corporation vis-à-vis the appellants herein. Otherwise, the denial of compensation would amount to usurping the citizens’ property without authority of law and in breach of the constitutional rights of the citizens. In this context, reliance was placed on Vidya Devi vs. State of Himachal Pradesh (2020) 2 SCC 569 (Para 12.9 to 12.14); Sukh Dutt Ratra vs. State of Himachal Pradesh (2022) SCC OnLine SC 410 (Para 13-27); and Lalaram Vs. Jaipur Development Authority (2016) 11 SCC 31 (Para 124 & 129); Kazi Moinuddin Kazi Bashiroddin vs. Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation (2022) SCC OnLine SC 1325 (Para 26). 8.4 In the above backdrop, learned senior counsel, Sri Pravin Samdani submitted that the High Court was not right in dismissing the writ petitions on the ground of delay and laches when the respondent – Mumbai Municipal Corporation had not proved that: (i) the delay amounted to laches; (ii) owing to delay and during the interregnum, the respondent-Mumbai Municipal Corporation had altered its position to its prejudice; and (iii) certain rights had accrued which could not be disturbed by grant of reliefs to the writ petitioners/appellants herein.