Under clause (h), it is required to facilitate and support the tiger reserve management in the State for biodiversity conservation initiatives through eco-development and people’s participation as per approved management plans and to support similar initiatives in adjoining areas consistent with the Central and State laws. Under clause (i), it is required to ensure critical support including scientific, information technology, and legal support for better implementation of the TCP. Under clause (j), it is required to facilitate an ongoing capacity building programme for the skill development of officers and staff of tiger reserves. Under clause (k), it is required to perform such other functions as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of the WLP Act with regard to the conservation of tigers and their habitat. 39. The importance given to the Tiger Conservation Authority can be seen in sub-section (2) of Section 38-O of the WLP Act, which empowers it to issue directions in writing to any person, officer or authority for the protection of tiger or tiger reserves and such person, officer or authority are bound to comply with the directions. No doubt that the [2024] 3 S.C.R. 227 In Re: T.N. Godavarman Thirumulpad v. Union of India & Ors. In Re: Gaurav Kumar Bansal proviso thereto provides that no such direction shall interfere with or affect the rights of local people, particularly the Scheduled Tribes. 40. Section 38V of the WLP Act deals with the notification of an area as a tiger reserve and preparation of the “TCP”. Under sub-section (1) thereof, the State Government is required to notify an area as a tiger reserve, on such recommendations being made by the Tiger Conservation Authority. Sub-section (2) thereof provides that the provisions of sub-section (2) of Section 18, sub-sections (2), (3) and (4) of Section 27, Sections 30, 32 and clauses (b) and (c) of Section 33 of the said Act shall, as far as may be, apply in relation to a tiger reserve as they apply in relation to a sanctuary. 41. Under sub-section (3) of Section 38V, the State Government is required to prepare a TCP including staff development and deployment plan for the proper management of each area referred to in sub-section (1), so as to ensure protection of tiger reserve and providing site specific habitat inputs for a viable population of tigers, co-predators and prey animals without distorting the natural prey-predator ecological cycle in the habitat. It is also required to ensure ecologically compatible land uses in the tiger reserves and areas linking one protected area or tiger reserve with another for addressing the livelihood concerns of local people, so as to provide dispersal habitats and corridor for spill over population of wild animals from the designated core areas of tiger reserves or from tiger breeding habitats within other protected areas. It is also required to ensure that the forestry operations of regular forest divisions and those adjoining the tiger reserves are not incompatible with the needs of tiger conservation. 42. Under sub-section (4) of Section 38V, the State Government, while preparing a TCP, is also required to ensure the agricultural, livelihood, developmental and other interests of the people living in tiger bearing forests or a tiger reserve.