(5) The presenting officer who has been engaged for presentation of the case on behalf of the Central Government, shall examine such witnesses and documentary evidences in respect of the property as he thinks fit. (6) On completion of the proceedings, the details including depositions shall be furnished to the parties. (7) The Chairperson, after examining the evidence and calling for further reports and inquiry as may be necessary, shall pass such s thereon as it thinks fit, and a copy of the said s shall be sent to the parties.” 11. Articles 285, 289, 296 and 300-A of the Constitution of India are relevant while interpreting the Act and read as under: “285. Exemption of property of the Union from State taxation.—(1) The property of the Union shall, save [2024] 2 S.C.R. 883 Lucknow Nagar Nigam & Others v. Kohli Brothers Colour Lab. Pvt. Ltd. & Others in so far as Parliament may by law otherwise provide, be exempt from all taxes imposed by a State or by any authority within a State. (2) Nothing in clause (1) shall, until Parliament by law otherwise provides, prevent any authority within a State from levying any tax on any property of the Union to which such property was immediately before the commencement of this Constitution liable or treated as liable, so long as that tax continues to be levied in that State. x x x 289. Exemption of property and income of a State from Union taxation.— (1) The property and income of a State shall be exempt from Union taxation. (2) Nothing in clause (1) shall prevent the Union from imposing, or authorising the imposition of any tax to such extent, if any, as Parliament may by law provide in respect of a trade or business of any kind carried on by, or on behalf of, the Government of a State, or any operations connected therewith, or any property used or occupied for the purposes of such trade or business, or any income accruing or arising in connection therewith. (3) Nothing in clause (2) shall apply to any trade or business, or to be incidental to the ordinary functions of Government.” x x x 296. Property accruing by escheat or lapse or as bona vacantia. - Subject as hereinafter provided, any property in the territory of India which, if this Constitution had not come into operation, would have accrued to His Majesty or, as the case may be, to the Ruler of an Indian State by escheat or lapse, or as bona vacantia for want of a rightful owner, shall, if it is property situate in a State, vest in such State, and shall, in any other case, vest in the Union: Provided that any property which at the date when it would have so accrued to His Majesty or to the Ruler of an Indian State was in the possession or under the control of the 884 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Government of India or the Government of a State shall, according as the purposes for which it was then used or held were purposes of the Union or of a State, vest in the Union or in that State.