36. Yet again, this Court in Ashok Kumar Aggarwal v. Neeraj Kumar31 overturned the decision of the high court under challenge which passed an in contempt proceedings solely on merits disregarding the procedural objections (including that of limitation). This Court reiterated that high courts were obliged to examine whether procedure prescribed by law had been complied with when a petition under Article 215 was presented before the court. Such examination 29 [1995] 2 SCR 638 : (1995) 2 SCC 584 30 (1998) 7 SCC 379 31 [2013] 12 SCR 457 : (2014) 3 SCC 602 1100 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports would also include a scrutiny of whether limitation, as prescribed by section 20, was attracted to the facts of the case. 37. The ‘procedure prescribed by law’ or a ‘validly enacted law’ referred to in the aforementioned decisions is the one the Act envisages. Proceedings for contempt being quasi-criminal in nature, no punishment can be ed by any court without strictly adhering to the stringent provisions therefor, however needless they may appear to be when a contempt is committed on the face of a high court and such court has no two opinions that following the course prescribed by the Act to punish for contempt would eventually turn out to be a useless formality. 38. Much water has flown under the bridge since the aforesaid decided cases. Having regard to some extreme cases of exercise of contempt power increasing over a period of time, a three-Judge Bench of this Court in State of Uttar Pradesh v. Association of Retired Supreme Court & High Court Judges 32 speaking through the Hon’ble the Chief Justice of India had to devise a Standard Operating Procedure33 for being followed by the high courts while summoning public officials, alleged to be in contempt, to be physically present in court. Deeply concerned with the lack of self-restraint shown in the exercise of contempt power in certain cases, the Bench directed framing of rules by all the high courts in terms of the SoP, as devised. This Court noted in such decision that mandating the physical presence of a contemnor, specifically in the case of public officials, comes at a cost to the public interest and efficiency of public administration, and thus ought not to be resorted to at the drop of a hat. 39. We wish to add to this by way of clarification that concomitantly, there lies a bounden duty on the contemnor to comply with the court’s without any delay, in a case where legal recourse has not been taken to set aside/review/vacate the which is alleged to have been breached. A public official against whom an allegation of contempt is levelled, upon being noticed either by issuance of a rule for contempt or by court notice, must work out his remedy in accordance with law if he wishes not to comply with the court’s direction. He must not wait for compliance to be secured only upon all the phased steps to be taken by the high courts in terms of paragraph 44 of State 32 [2024] 1 SCR 211 : (2024) 3 SCC 1 33 SoP, hereafter [2024] 7 S.C.R.