Admittedly, co-employees who were below the appellant in the select list of the year 1996 were promoted in the intervening period without any objection being raised by the appellant. After the publication of the draft seniority list in the year 2006, he chose to challenge the same and to consider his promotion to highly skilled grade with effect from 20th May, 2003 by filing an Original Application26 before CAT only in the year 2007. Thus, it was the first time in 2007 that the appellant claimed his promotion with retrospective effect. However, this benefit of retrospective promotion was neither granted by the CAT nor by the High Court and thus, there is no need to delve into this aspect further. 29. The primary issue which requires adjudication is as to whether the seniority of the appellant is to be reckoned from the date of induction/ initial appointment or as per the date of promotion/confirmation in the skilled grade. 30. It is a well-settled proposition that once an incumbent is appointed to a post according to the rules, his seniority has to be reckoned from 26 Original Application No. 821 of 2007 140 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the date of the initial appointment and not according to the date of confirmation, unless the rules provide otherwise. 31. In the case of L. Chandrakishore Singh v. State of Manipur and Others,27 this Court held that in cases of probationary or officiating appointments which are followed by a confirmation, unless a contrary rule is shown, the services rendered as the officiating appointment or on probation cannot be ignored while reckoning the length of service for determining the position in the seniority list. This view has been reiterated in the case of Ajit Kumar Rath v. State of Orissa and Others.28 32. The Constitution Bench of this Court in Direct Recruit Class II Engg Officers’ Assn. (supra) stated the legal position with regard to inter se seniority of direct recruits and promotees and while doing so, inter alia, it was held that once an incumbent is appointed to a post according to rules, his seniority has to be counted from the date of his appointment and not according to the date of his confirmation. 33. This Court summarised the legal principles with regard to the determination of seniority in Pawan Pratap Singh and Others v. Reevan Singh and Others29 in the following terms: 45. From the above, the legal position with regard to determination of seniority in service can be summarised as follows: (i) The effective date of selection has to be understood in the context of the service rules under which the appointment is made. It may mean the date on which the process of selection starts with the issuance of advertisement or the factum of preparation of the select list, as the case may be. (ii) Inter se seniority in a particular service has to be determined as per the service rules. The date of entry in a particular service or the date of substantive appointment is the safest criterion for fixing seniority inter se between one officer or the other or between 27 [1999] Supp.