The topography for the safari should be undulating and well- drained, without steep slopes. The vegetation maintained in the Safari Park should be indigenous. The density of flora should be regulated according to needs, and to provide a naturalistic effect. It should provide shelters and withdrawal areas for animals. It provides that the entire safari area should be surrounded by a suitable peripheral chain link fence. The said chain link fence should be of a minimum height of 5 meters in case of large carnivores like tigers with a suitable both way –overhang at the top or as prescribed by the CZA from time to time. It also provides that a buffer zone (strip) of about 5 meters width be provided around the fenced area. It also provides for the erection of a watch tower of about 5 meters in height. It also provides for the sensitization of visitors at ‘Visitor Centres’. It provides that visitors shall enter the park in eco-friendly vehicles which run on solar and/or battery power only. There are various other details with regard to layout of roads, hours of the day during which vehicles should be permitted, the equipment to be provided, veterinary care, education. It also provides for the frequency of vehicles entering the Safari Park. It further restricts taking the vehicles near the animals and to maintain a distance of at least 10 meters. It also provides for waste disposal, monitoring, and supervision. 59. Clause 14 of the 2016 guidelines provides for management of the tiger safari based on prescriptions of a Master Plan which shall be formulated as per guidelines of the CZA and duly approved by the said Authority. It further provides that care should be taken to harmonize the Master Plan with prescriptions of the TCP of the area concerned. 238 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 60. The NTCA again in 2019 notified guidelines to establish tiger safaris in buffer and fringe areas of tiger reserves. Most of the guidelines are similar to those contained in the 2016 guidelines. In some areas, elaborate details have been provided. The only substantial distinction is about clause 9, which reads thus : “9. Selection of Animal : The selection of the animal shall be done in conformity of section 38I of Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972 after due approval of the Central Zoo Authority (CZA).” 61. It will further be relevant to note that the NTCA has notified the Standard Operating Procedure to deal with orphaned, abandoned tiger cubs and old/injured tigers in wild (hereinafter referred to as “SOP”). The said SOP provides detailed procedures as to what are the causes and circumstances leading to orphaned/abandoned tiger cubs and old/injured tigers in the wild. It provides a procedure for establishing the identity of the tigresses/cub(s)/old/injured/sick tigers by comparing camera trap photographs with the National Repository of Camera Trap Photographs of Tigers. It provides for the collection of recent cattle/livestock depredation or human injury/fatal encounter data, if any, in the area. It further deals with how such cubs and tigers are to be dealt with.