Explanation 2.- The member or members who claim partition under this section or the member who claims or is compelled to take his or her shares under section 39 shall be entitled to such share or shares of the tarwad or tavazhi properties as would fall to such member or members, if a division Per Capita were made among the members of the tarwad or tavazhi then living. Explanation 3.- The provisions of the section shall apply to a tarwad notwithstanding the fact that immediately before the commencement of the Madras Marumakkattayam (Amendment) Act, 1958, the tarwad was included in the Schedule or that the tarwad had been registered as impartible. Explanation 4.- The provisions of this section shall apply to all suits for partition, appeals and other proceedings arising therefrom filed or proceeded with by members or their legal representatives and pending in the Courts immediately before the commencement of the Madras Marumakkattayam (Amendment) Act, 1958, and such 1034 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports suits, appeals and other proceedings shall be disposed of in accordance with the provisions of this section as if this section were in force at the time of the institution of such suits, appeals and other proceedings.” 41. The majority placed its reliance on the pre-amendment version whereunder by virtue of sub-section (2) the position of law was that the share obtained by a thavazhi shall be taken by it with all incidents of it being a tharwad property. The above-mentioned amendment removes the contents of sub-section (2) which demonstrates legislative intent to change the existing position of law. That apart, per the discussion made above, a single person cannot form a thavazhi and, therefore, even the unamended section 38 cannot be read to be placing an obligation upon a single female inheriting property by way of partition, to hold it as tharwad property. We are in complete agreement with what Govindan Nair, J., observed in Para 56 of his dissenting , which reads thus : “56. The same rule cannot apply to the case of an individual member who obtain his share for himself. The property in such cases ceases to be joint property after partition. What really happens on partition is that the joint nature of the property is destroyed. I conceive that right by birth can be taken in property by a Marumakkathayee only if that property at the time of his birth was joint property. The property allotted to a roup will be joint property and so children born in that group who normally take an interest in tarwad property acquire an interest in the property allotted to the group. But the same cannot be said when an individual member holds property, for such property has ceased to be joint property. On partition (forgetting for the moment those groups who take jointly) what happens is the destruction of the joint nature of the property. This happens even when there is only a division in status.” 42. Encapsulating the above discussion with reference to the illustration given earlier, it follows that neither the majority nor the dissenting Judges of the Full Bench have any qualms with the fact that upon partition AD would hold the property as tharwad property, thereby 2 protecting the interest of C, B and other future generations.