S.14(2) reaffirms the affirmation in s.30. Any interpretation of s.14(1) which renders s.14(2) and s.30 otios cannot be allowed. 4. Ratio in Tulasamma has application only when a female Hindu is possessed of the property on the date of the Act under semblance of a right (limited or pre- existing). The decision in Karmi can only be justified on the premise that the widow had no pre-existing right in the self-acquired property of her husband. Decision in Bhura and Sharad Subramanyan Vs. Soumi Mazumdar & Ors.34 is along the same lines. 5. Thus, the essential ingredients for determining application of s.14(1) are as follows - antecedents 34 (2006) 8 SCC 91 514 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of the property, the possession of the property as on the date of the Act and the existence of a right in the female over it, however limited it may be. 6. Any acquisition of possession of property (not right) by a female Hindu after the coming into force of the Act, cannot normally attract Section 14(1) of the Act. 21. As this is argued to be contrary to the principles laid down in Tulsamma and also bad in law for the reason that it is a decision of a two-Judge bench, it is necessary to extract the portion of the . The extract will also indicate how Tulsamma was understood and analysed in this . The relevant portion of this is extracted herein for ready reference: “4. Under Section 18 of the Hindu Adoptions and Maintenance Act, a Hindu wife is entitled to be maintained by her husband during her lifetime, subject to her not incurring the disqualifications provided for in sub-section (3) of that section. The widow is in the list of dependants as defined in Section 21 of the Act. The widow remains a dependant so long as she does not remarry. Under Section 22, an obligation is cast on the heirs of the deceased Hindu to maintain the dependant of the deceased out of the estate inherited by them from the deceased. Under sub-section (2), where a dependant has not obtained by testamentary or intestate succession, any share in the estate of a Hindu dying after the commencement of the Act, the dependant would be entitled, but subject to the provisions of the Act, to maintenance from those who take the estate. It is seen that neither Section 18 relating to a wife nor Section 21 dealing with a widow, provides for any charge for the maintenance on the property of the husband. To the contrary, Section 27 specifies that a dependant’s claim for maintenance under that Act, shall not be a charge on the estate of the deceased unless one would have been created by the will of the deceased, by a decree of court, by an agreement between the dependant and the owner of the estate or otherwise. Thus a widow has no charge on the property of the husband. Section 28 provides that where a dependant had a right to receive [2024] 12 S.C.R.