Furthermore, it is imperative to note that a reference does not represent a conclusive decision. Hence, the aforementioned contention of the Petitioners otherwise suffers from a factual error as the reference cannot be construed as a final expression of views by this Court on any of the issues. 74. That apart, and as has been noted previously, instead of conclusively deciding the question of delay, this Court framed one of the specific questions as to whether delay should be considered for moulding appropriate relief. Thus, while the Court discussed the principle of delay in challenging the vires of Section 6A, it left the question open to be dealt with by a larger bench. 75. To conclude, while there has undoubtedly been a considerable delay in filing the instant writ petitions, the doctrine of laches cannot be applied strictly to disbar the claims at the threshold. This is so because the present proceedings raise substantial questions that affect the public at large and the constitutional validity of a statutory provision. If we were to decide otherwise, we would be, in essence, creating an artificial deadline for important constitutional issues. This would give rise to an unfair principle of law in the realm of constitutional adjudication. 76. We thus conclude that the Petitioners’ claim overcomes the preliminary hurdles, and cannot be dismissed at the threshold on the grounds of lack of judicial review or doctrine of laches. ******* challengeS regarDing conStitutionality 77. Prior to examining the contentions articulated by the parties on the constitutionality of the provision and engaging in a discussion on the various legal issues involved, it is imperative to trace the history of this matter and have a holistic understanding of how the provision, Section 6A, came into being. This historical context sheds light on Assam’s evolving dynamics and challenges, which were marked by partition decisions and the subsequent establishment of regulatory frameworks governing movement and citizenship. 78. Before we begin our discussion on the political history of Assam, it is crucial to emphasize that this serves as a broad overview based 1050 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports on the material cited by both parties. It is not to be construed as an exercise of determining the factual veracity of competing versions of historical narratives and is not strictly germane to our legal analysis. It merely serves as a contextual background for those who might be unfamiliar with the origins of Section 6A and the present issue. 79. The region, known today as Assam, has historically been inhabited by diverse ethnic and linguistic communities. Throughout the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, it was predominantly governed by the Ahom political authority, albeit with a brief period of Mughal rule. Subsequently, like numerous other regions across the nation, it came under British colonial administration in 1826.73 80. Prior to the beginning of the British colonial era, several parts of Assam fell under the dominion of the Burmese for a brief duration, during which the region underwent significant changes in its political and economic landscape.