1187 Thakore Umedsing Nathusing v. State of Gujarat (d) If the view taken is a possible view, the appellate Court cannot overturn the of acquittal on the ground that another view was also possible; and (e) The appellate Court can interfere with the of acquittal only if it comes to a finding that the only conclusion which can be recorded on the basis of the evidence on record was that the guilt of the accused was proved beyond a reasonable doubt and no other conclusion was possible.” 25. Viewed in the light of these well settled legal principles, we now proceed to evaluate the impugned whereby the conviction of the accused has been recorded reversing the acquittal by trial Court. Relevant findings from the impugned dated 11th December 2015 are reproduced hereinbelow for the sake of ready reference: - “[6.1]. At the outset it is required to be noted and it is not in dispute that the dead body of the deceased Bharatbhai was found on 01.03.1990 in the agricultural field of one Nizamkhan at village Dangiya on Dantiwada road within the jurisdiction of the Gadh Police Station, Taluka Palanpur. It is not in dispute that that original accused No. 1 Laxmansingh was apprehended by the PSI Shri. Chaudhary of Sardarnagar Police Station on 02.03.1990 in the early morning. That on 02.03.1990, in early morning at Ahmedabad near Chharanagar, PSI of Sardarnagar Police station saw one jeep (muddamal jeep) coming in speed and he tried to stop the same. That four persons other than the original accused No. 1 were successful in running away from jeep, however the original accused No. 1 was arrested and interrogated. That the original accused No. 1 tried to explain his presence in the jeep in his further statement recorded under section 313 of the CrPC. According to original accused No. 1, as he wanted to go to Palanpur from Gitamandir Bus stand and one jeep was taking passengers to Palanpur, he was offered to sit in the same on payment of charges and therefore, he along with other passengers sat in the jeep and on the road near Sardarnagar Police tried to stop the jeep which was stopped at some distance and therefore, the 1188 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports passengers and the driver ran away and when he alighted from the jeep, the police arrested him. However, by giving cogent reasons the learned trial Court has not accepted the defence of the original accused No. 1. It is required to be noted that to go to Palanpur from Gitamandir Bus stand, Chharanagar from where the original accused No. 1 was apprehended from jeep, was not the route at all. To got to Palanpur from Gitamandir Bus stand, one was not required to go to Chharanagar/Sardarnagar at all. Under the circumstances, as such the original accused No. 1 gave the false explanation/defence in his further statement recorded under section 313 of the CrPC. At this stage it is required to be noted that the design of the tyres of the jeep tallies with the tyre marks found at the place of incident from where the dead body of the deceased Bharatbhai was found.