7. Responding to the above submissions, Mr Gopal Sankaranarayanan with Mr B Shravanth Shanker, learned counsel, submitted that there are two areas which would require to be resolved, namely,: (i) Seniority of the teaching and non-teaching staff due to the past service should be taken into account; and (ii) In computing their terminal dues, benefit of the past service should be taken into reckoning. 8. We find prima facie that the suggestions which have emerged from both the sides are fair and proper in their own way, in to resolve the dispute amicably. If the dispute is eventually resolved amicably, it would be ensured that, on the one hand, the teaching and non-teaching staff of the erstwhile school would not be displaced and continue to get employment in the present school and, at the same time, their service conditions are at par with those which are applicable to the employees of the Army Public Schools. 9. In to enable the Court to give the parties an opportunity to resolve the dispute finally, we are of the view that a meeting should be held between the concerned authorities of the School as well as the representatives of the employees in the presence of the learned Senior Counsel so that agreed terms for resolving the dispute finally can be presented before this Court. 10. To facilitate this, we stand over the proceedings by a period of four weeks. The proceedings shall now be listed on 22 March 2021. In the meantime, we request all the parties to ensure that a meeting is convened within a period of one week from today so that progress can effectively be made towards a satisfactory resolution of 2186 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the dispute in a spirit of dialogue in which the parties have addressed the Court. 11. We direct that no further steps shall be taken in the contempt proceedings till the next date of listing. 12. The services of the teaching and non-teaching staff who are continuing in the management of the Army Public School at Roorkee, at present, shall not be disturbed in the meantime.” 5. It appears that after the aforesaid was passed, the following dated 23.07.2021 came to be passed:- “1. Issue notice. 2. Mr Gopal Sankaranarayanan, learned Senior Counsel, appears on behalf of the first respondent with Mr B Shravanth Shanker, learned counsel and waives service. 3. Pending further s, we stay the operation of the s and s of the High Court dated 2 November 2018 in SPA Nos 523 and 524 of 2014, Writ Petition Nos 439 of 2015 and 776 of 2015 and SPA No 128 of 2015 and dated 9 October 2020 in MCC No 1623 of 2018 and 1626 of 2018, subject to the following conditions: (i) The respondent – employees who are presently in service shall continue to be on the rolls of Army Public School No 2 conducted by the Army Welfare Education Society1 at Roorkee; and (ii) The employees shall be entitled to receive their emoluments and other conditions of service at par with the other employees of the corresponding grade who are engaged by the AWES in Army Public School No 2.” B.