19. The prosecution’s case, in the absence of eye witnesses, is based upon circumstantial evidence. As per Section 25 of the Indian Evidence Act, 18728, a confession made to a police officer is prohibited and cannot be admitted in evidence. Section 26 of the Evidence Act provides that no confession made by any person whilst 7 The recovery of lower jaw from the sump took place on 30.04.2008. Thus, it could not have been men- tioned in the post mortem report dated 26.04.2008. 8 For short ‘the Evidence Act’. 102 [2024] 1 S.C.R. DIGITAL SUPREME COURT REPORTS he is in the custody of a police officer shall be proved against such person, unless it is made in the immediate presence of a Magistrate. Section 279 of the Evidence Act is an exception to Sections 25 and 26 of the Evidence Act. It makes that part of the statement which distinctly leads to discovery of a fact in consequence of the information received from a person accused of an offence, to the extent it distinctly relates to the fact thereby discovered, admissible in evidence against the accused. The fact which is discovered as a consequence of the information given is admissible in evidence. Further, the fact discovered must lead to recovery of a physical object and only that information which distinctly relates to that discovery can be proved. Section 27 of the Evidence Act is based on the doctrine of confirmation by subsequent events – a fact is actually discovered in consequence of the information given, which results in recovery of a physical object. The facts discovered and the recovery is an assurance that the information given by a person accused of the offence can be relied. 20. In Pulukuri Kottaya v. King Emperor10, the Privy Council held that the fact discovered embraces the place from which the physical object is produced and the knowledge of the accused as to this, and the information given, must distinctly relate to this fact. 21. In State (NCT of Delhi) v. Navjot Sandhu alias Afsan Guru11, this Court affirmed that the fact discovered within the meaning of Section 27 of the Evidence Act must be some concrete fact to which the information directly relates. Further, the fact discovered should refer to a material/physical object and not to a pure mental fact relating to a physical object disassociated from the recovery of the physical object. 22. However, we must clarify that Section 27 of the Evidence Act, as held in these s, does not lay down the principle that discovery of a fact is to be equated to the object produced or found. The discovery of the fact resulting in recovery of a physical object exhibits 9 27. How much of information received from accused may be proved. – Provided that, when any fact is deposed to as discovered in consequence of information received from a person accused of any of- fence, in the custody of a police officer, so much of such information, whether it amounts to a confession or not, as relates distinctly to the fact thereby discovered, may be proved.