2107 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. on it by a statute or rules made thereunder, it has to apply its own mind and the procedures laid, therefore, must be scrupulously followed. (vide V.K. Ashokan vs. Assistant Excise Commissioner, (2009) 14 SCC 85 (paras 52 and 54). Every statutory authority is also bound by the rule of reasonableness and fairness and its action must be free from arbitrariness. 42.8 Moreover, when an authority changes its policy decision, it is expected to give valid reasons and act in the larger interest of the entire community. The persons representing a public body are expected to discharge their functions faithfully and in keeping with the trust reposed in them. A statutory body, when it acts in terms of a statute, is bound by its action. It cannot supplement or supplant the reasons later on by way of an affidavit. It is well settled that while a power is exercised by an authority, ordinarily the reasons contained in the should be supported by the material on record. It is absolutely essential that the authority making the is alive to the material on the basis of which it purports to take the decision. It cannot act mechanically or under an impulse, but after due and proper application of mind. A statutory authority exercising its power does so in trust, only to be exercised for a legitimate purpose and along the settled principles of administrative law. Application of mind is best demonstrated by disclosure of mind by the authority making the and said disclosure is best done through recording the reasons that led the authority to pass the in question. Absence of reasons either in the passed by the authority or in the record contemporaneously maintained, is clearly suggestive of the being arbitrary, hence legally unsustainable. 42.9 The authority cannot neglect to do that which the law mandates and requires doing. It is necessary that an executive or administrative function should be exercised with clarity, so as to enable legal certainty in the decision-making process bearing in mind the requisites for a valid exercise of power. Public Trust Doctrine: 42.10 The aforementioned curious lapses of procedure and propriety are especially acute because they are in the teeth of the 2108 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports public trust doctrine applicable in the instant case, which holds immense significance when a decision impacting environmental and ecological vitality is impugned. The public trust doctrine enjoins upon the Government to protect the natural resources as well as the environment for the enjoyment of the general public rather than to permit their use for private ownership or commercial purposes. In M.C. Mehta vs. Kamal Nath, 1996 (9) Scale 141, this Court has observed that there is no reason why the public trust doctrine should not be expanded to include all ecosystems operating in our natural resources. The State is the trustee of all natural resources and the public at large is the beneficiary of the same.