This, I find, is a serious omission, on the part of GEAC in not applying its mind to research studies to be conducted within the country as India has a unique biodiversity and a socio- economic structure of society which is directly related to land holdings and conduct of agricultural operations. 47.4 It is also noted that Dr. Sanjay Kumar Mishra, Scientist ‘H’, DBT, New Delhi, who is one of the members of GEAC (Co- Chairman), was made Chairman of the Expert Committee constituted by GEAC in the 146th meeting which was held pursuant to the letter written by Prof. Deepak Pental on behalf of the CGMCP, University of Delhi (South Campus) to the Hon’ble Minister of Environment. The crucial portions of the recommendations have been extracted above. 2132 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports On a reading of the same, it is evident that the Expert Committee has made its recommendations on the opinion of the DBT and the DARE which are bodies within the Ministries of the Government. They are not independent scientific bodies. Therefore, the Expert Committee could not have relied upon the opinion of the DBT and the DARE. Also, based on the examination of scientific evidences available globally, and as per the recommendations of concerned Ministries, it was observed by the Expert Committee that it was unlikely that the bar, barnase, and barstar system would pose an adverse impact on honeybees and other pollinators. What is the pertinent scientific evidence available globally or in other countries and how the said evidence was co-related to all the concerned issues of contemporary relevance under Indian scenario, has not been explained. That the Expert Committee has been swayed by the opinion of the DBT and the DARE is opponent. DBT opined that, “it seems likely that there were no major deviations in the behaviour of honeybees when compared among the transgenic and non-transgenic comparator lines. GEAC may consider its recommendations of the 133rd meeting on the environmental release of GE mustard.” The aforesaid opinion is contrary to what was expressed by the sub-committee constituted by the GEAC when the matter was being considered prior to the 133rd meeting. DARE opined that, “GEAC may consider exempting additional studies on the impact of GM mustard hybrid DMH-11 containing the bar, barnase, and barstar genes on honey bees and honey as decided in its 136th meeting and the recommendation of the 133rd meeting of GEAC may be considered.” There is no reason expressed as to why GEAC should exempt additional studies on the impact of transgenic mustard hybrid DMH-11 on honeybees and honey as decided in 136th meeting. In other words, the Expert Committee has recommended what exactly was required by the applicant i.e. to give effect to the recommendations of the 133rd meeting of GEAC. 47.5 In fact, the constitution of Expert Committee in the year 2022 itself is an eye-wash, inasmuch as the Ministry of Environment required the report of the so-called Expert Committee in to approve the application given by CGMCP, University of Delhi (South Campus), which is contrary to the stand of GEAC in its earlier meetings.