110. Judicial precedents discussing fraternity will aid us in understanding whether fraternity remains to be seen as a beacon promoting togetherness amongst diverse groups or whether it has become more restrictive in its scope over time. This Court has dealt with the idea of fraternity or, at the very least, referred to it in a myriad of case laws. It has consistently held that the term ‘fraternity’ means a sense of common brotherhood of all citizens.99 This Court has also often reiterated that the ideals of liberty, equality, and fraternity should not be treated as separate entities instead, should be viewed as a trinity that secures empowerment and political justice for all citizens. Additionally, fraternity was interpreted as a principle that afforded the means to achieve national unity and the dignity of the individual.100 111. This Court in Indian Medical Association v. Union of India,101 addressed multiple petitions that had been filed challenging the exemptions provided under law, which allowed a private, non-aided educational institution to admit the children of army personnel exclusively. While examining the constitutionality of the challenged provision, the Court highlighted the significance of access to education as a means to foster fraternity and further promote social cohesion and unity. In the cited case, the Court determined that the restrictive admission policy was an impediment to achieving fraternity in society. Although not spelt out explicitly in the , it is clear that the Court understood fraternity as encouraging the intermixing of people and one which discourages exclusivity or endogamous social structures. 99 Shri Raghunathrao Ganpatrao v. Union of India, AIR 1993 SC 1267, para 109. 100 Indra Sawhney v. Union of India, AIR 1993 SC 477, para 412; AIIMS Students’ Union v. AIIMS, AIR 2001 SC 3262, para 58. 101 Indian Medical Association v. Union of India, AIR 2011 SC 2365. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1061 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 112. It was, however, in the seminal case of Nandini Sundar v. State of Chhattisgarh102 that this Court, in the course of addressing issues pertaining to the appointment of Special Police Officers (SPOs) for the Salwa Judum in Chhattisgarh, extensively dealt with the aspect of fraternity. For context, the Salwa Judum was a militia formed and deployed to counter Maoist activities in the State of Chhattisgarh. This case brought to the fore several constitutional principles, including the ideals of fraternity, equality, the right to life, and personal liberty. This Court held that Section 9 of the Chhattisgarh Police Act, 2007 which allowed for the appointment of SPOs, violated the Constitution and delved into the relevance of the constitutional principle of fraternity. 113. In the aforesaid case, the Court interpreted fraternity as a safeguard against unchecked state power and an essential pillar for responsible governance. The Court held that state actions that de-humanized citizens violated the constitutional objective of the welfare of all citizens and would be wholly against the idea of dignity and fraternity, as enshrined in the Preamble to the Constitution.