The High Court shall have the power to make any relaxation in or exemption from the aforesaid terms and condition in the interest of Judiciary.” 75. The above makes it clear that the High Court has been vested with requisite powers to provide clarification, relaxation and even exemption in the interest of the Judiciary. The words “relaxation” as also the general power to issue s/directions in case of any “difficulty”, would in our view permit the process of moderation in to provide for the adequate number of candidates for the interview test. The Clause 13 of Appendix C of the Bihar Rules read with Para 10 of the Advertisement provide adequate elbow room to the High Court to overcome difficulties in the selection process. It is nobody’s case that the corrective measures were not bonafide. Moreover, the process adopted is consistent with the Rules. 76. In a moderation exercise, addition of marks and/or deduction of marks is envisaged. This Court in Sanjay Singh v UP Public Service Commission37, laid down certain guidelines for moderation of marks in judicial services examination. Preferring the method of “moderation” over “scaling”, it was noted that moderation is a more viable technique to reduce the variability of the examiners. 77. In the same context, it would be useful to refer to the in Pranav Verma & Ors. v. Registrar General of the High Court of Punjab & Haryana38 where this Court underscored the option of using moderation or normalization of marks, to ensure the selection of adequate number of candidates. In the said case, this Court had appointed Justice (Retd.) A.K. Sikri, a former Supreme Court judge to examine the selection process in a recruitment exercise where adequate number of candidates had not qualified. The learned judge verified the selection process but found no fundamental flaws. However, deficiencies were found in the evaluation of the Civil Law-I paper as only 8.5 minutes were available to the candidates to answer 37 [2007] 1 SCR 235 : (2007) 3 SCC 720 38 [2019] 15 SCR 43 : (2020) 15 SCC 377 [2024] 6 S.C.R. 581 Abhimeet Sinha & Ors. v. High Court of Judicature at Patna & Ors. for each question. This was noted to be insufficient for the descriptive type questions and the lengthy paper. It was also noticed that marking in the Civil Law-II paper was too stringent, with the highest score being 95 out of 200 (47.5%) and the evaluators, as can be noticed, expected lengthy answers for each question without considering the limited time available for the candidates. Despite noting these facts, the Supreme Court held that the selection process need not be invalidated. Instead to save the selection, the Court directed that grace marks be awarded to all examinees. 78. The above would show that if certain resolvable deficiencies are noticed in the selection process, the High Court has the elbow room to take corrective measures. The process of moderation can always be exercised bona fide if it uniformly benefits all the candidates.