14. Next, the petitioners submit that their right to be informed under Article 19(1)(a) vis-à-vis the electoral process have two facets. First, a voter has a right to know that the vote is recorded as cast; and, secondly that the vote as cast is counted. These facets need to be dealt with separately. 15. A citizen’s right ‘to freedom of speech and expression’ under Article 19(1) is not absolute; the State by virtue of Article 19(2) can place reasonable restrictions on these rights. There can be no doubt that the electorate has a right to be informed if the votes, as cast, are accurately recorded. The dispute, in the present writ proceedings, centres around the modality of delivering the information. The petitioners have characterised the present procedure, wherein the voter after pressing the ‘blue button’ and casting his/her vote can see his VVPAT slip for 7 seconds through an illuminated glass window, as inadequate for the voter to verify if his/her vote, as cast, is recorded. 16. To buttress their submission, the petitioners have relied on the proviso to Rule 49M (3) of the Conduct of Election Rules, 19619. The petitioners urge that the ECI is not following the statutory mandate provided in the Election Rules. I am ad idem with the interpretation of the relevant rule placed by Hon’ble Khanna, J. The ordainment of Rule 49M (3) is 9 Election Rules 456 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports that the VVPAT slip should be momentarily visible to the voter; and it is not the requirement of the rule that the VVPAT slip or its copy has to be handed over to the voter. Recording of the vote cast signifying the choice of the voter and its projection on the VVPAT slip, albeit for 7 (seven) seconds, is fulfilment of the voter’s right of being informed that his/her vote has been duly recorded. In my considered view, as long as there is no allegation of statutory breach, there can be no substitution of the Court’s view for the view of the ECI that the light in the VVPAT would be on for 7 (seven) seconds and not more. 17. We now address the second facet of the argument based on the right guaranteed by Article 19(1)(a) – the voter’s right to know that his/her vote, as recorded, has been counted. To deal with this contention, a question comes to my mind – did this right not exist when the “paper ballot system”, which the petitioning association wishes to be reverted to, was in vogue? Then, voters would simply drop their paper ballots into a box, for it to be safely ferried away to the counting stations, whereafter the same were counted by election officials far away from the voter’s scrutiny, with no way of knowing whether the vote cast by the voter was indeed counted or had not fallen victim to human error and missed from being counted. In the present far more technologically advanced system of the EVM – VVPAT, every voter who enters the polling booth has his/her name recorded, along with an affixation of signature in the Register of Voters maintained by the Presiding Officer, as provided by Form 17A of the Election Rules.