In doing so, the Court does not supplant the reasons of the arbitral tribunal but only explains it for a better and clearer understanding of the award. 149. In the instant case, the appellate court took pains, and rightly so, to understand and explain the underlying reason on which the claim of Enexio was found within limitation. As noticed above, paragraph 16.03 (d) of the award contains the reason based on which the arbitral tribunal concluded that Enexio’s claim was within limitation. However, in paragraph 16.03 (d), the arbitral tribunal failed to state, in so many words, that it was treating the minutes of meeting dated 19 April 2018 as an acknowledgment within the meaning of Section 18 of the 1963 Act. This omission on the part of the arbitral tribunal was trivial and did not travel to the root of the award, therefore, in our 132 See paragraphs 71.2 to 71.6 of this . [2024] 9 S.C.R. 607 OPG Power Generation Private Limited v. Enexio Power Cooling Solutions India Private Limited & Anr. view, the appellate court was well within its jurisdiction to explain the underlying legal principle which the arbitral tribunal had applied; and in doing so, it did not supplant the reasons provided in the award. In this view of the matter, the impugned of the Division Bench does not suffer from any legal infirmity. Sub-issue (e) is decided in the aforesaid terms. SUMMARY OF OUR CONCLUSIONS 150. In the light of the analysis above, we summarize our conclusions as follows: (i) Though the ACC Unit /project was of OPG, Gita Power, as the holding company of OPG, had actively participated in the formation of the contract for the project. Not only did it place purchase (s) on Enexio but made advance payment(s) thereunder to Enexio, which were subsequently affirmed by OPG. The two, therefore, not only acted as a single economic entity but as agents of each other. Hence, the arbitral tribunal was justified in holding that Gita Power was bound by the arbitration agreement and jointly and severally liable along with OPG to pay the awarded amount. (ii) The claim of Enexio was an indivisible claim for compensation in lieu of goods supplied, and work done, based on breach of the contract, therefore limitation for the claim was governed by Article 55, and not by Articles 14, 18 and 113, of the Schedule to the 1963 Act. (iii) The claimant’s claim for the outstanding principal amount matured on 19 March 2016. Therefore, limitation started to run from that date. However, even if we count limitation from 21 September 2015 (as found by the Tribunal) it will have no material bearing on the award for the reason indicated below. (iv) The limitation for the claim as well as counterclaim(s), other than those relating to cost of repair/replacement of gear boxes and fan modules, stood extended, under Section 18 of the 1963 Act, on the basis of acknowledgement made in the minutes of meeting dated 19 April 2018, and, therefore, those were within limitation as on the date of : (a) commencement of arbitration (i.e.