It was requested that the by which Research Assistants/Lecturers were designated as Assistant Professors be rescinded and the benefit of CAS be extended only to those Assistant Professors, who were directly selected after regular selection by the SSC and not to those who were designated as Assistant Professors. The recommendations which were made by the University as well as by the Board were, thus, not accepted by the State Government. Hence, the Research Assistants, who were designated as Lecturers and later re-designated as Assistant Professors were deprived of the benefit of the CAS. Respondents No. 1 to 54 preferred writ petitions assailing such action(s) and the learned Single Judge allowed their writ petitions. The learned Single Judge’s (s) were affirmed by the Division Bench, which is impugned in the instant batch of appeals. SUBMISSIONS BY THE APPELLANT(S): 10. The appellant submits that past service(s) as Lecturers/Research Assistants cannot be given the same weightage for ex-cadre promotion as services rendered in the capacity of Assistant Professors. The grade of Lecturers/Research Assistants is a separate grade, though the pay may be the same and, therefore, the services rendered in that grade cannot be considered at par with the services of Assistant Professors. It was urged that as per the CAS, those Lecturers/ 8 hereinafter referred to as the ‘SSC’. [2024] 8 S.C.R. 181 Rajasthan Agricultural University, Bikaner, Through Its Registrar v. Dr. Zabar Singh Solanki and Ors. Assistant Professors are eligible for grant of senior scale, who have completed 8 years of service after regular appointment and that period of service has to be reckoned from the date of regular appointment. It was advanced that, admittedly, respondents No.1 to 54 were not appointed as Assistant Professors on a regular basis. 11. The appellant has submitted that merely by re-designating Research Assistants as Lecturers and thereafter as Assistant Professors, they could not have been granted the benefit of CAS. This benefit was available only to Lecturers, who were directly appointed on the posts of Assistant Professors under the Rajasthan Universities Teachers and Officers (Selection for Appointment) Act, 19749 and had completed eight years of service. Further, it was stated that the definition of the word “teacher” as contained in Section 2(ix) of the 1974 Act cannot be said to be applicable to Research Assistants. and considering the non-obstante clause contained in Sections 3 and 12 of the 1974 Act, the relief of CAS could not have been accorded to the Respondents No.1 to 54 by granting similar pay-scales. SUBMISSIONS BY THE RESPONDENTS NO.1 TO 54: 12. Learned counsel for the Respondents submitted that a “Research Assistant ” is also a teacher under the 1974 Act and in the previous round of litigation, it has already been held that they are Lecturers under Section 2(j), Udaipur University Act, 1962 and in view of the clarification issued by the UGC on 27.11.1990, there was not an iota of doubt that the persons serving as Lecturers or on other equivalent posts, were also entitled to the benefit of CAS.