Advs., Ms. Devina Sehgal, Amit Bhandari, Ms. Somaya Gupta, Praveen Kumar Singh, Ms. Priyansha Sharma, R.V. Yogesh Venkata, Ms. Kaushitaki Sharma, Ms. Prerna Acharya, Ms. Twinkle Rathi, M/s. Mclm & Co., Prashant Bhushan, Anurag Tiwary, R. Nedumaran, Ms. C.K. Sucharita, Vinod Kumar Gupta, Lavkesh Bhambhani, Utkarsh Pratap, Harshwardhan Thakur, Chandan Kumar, Manoj C. Mishra, Pawan Sharma, Anuj Shah, Ms. B. Vijayalakshmi Menon, M/s. Venkat Palwai Law Associates, Ashutosh Srivastava, Ms. Abhipsa Mohanty, Rajeev Singh, Guntur Prabhakar, Ranjan Mukherjee, Amit Pawan, K.V. Vijayakumar, S. Thananjayan, Ms. K. Enatoli Sema, Ms. Limayinla Jamir, Amit 1372 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Kumar Singh, Ms. Chubalemla Chang, Prang Newmai, Kumar Dushyant Singh, Siddharth Dutta, Ms. Subasri Jaganathan, Ms. G. Indira, Abinash Kumar Mishra, T.V. Ratnam, S. Udaya Kumar Sagar, Bijoy Kumar Jain, Ms. Promila, C.K. Sasi, Ms. Meena K Poulose, B. Krishna Prasad, Raghvendra Kumar, Gopal Singh, Amrish Kumar, Mrs. Swati Ghildiyal, Navanjay Mahapatra, Mrs. Sonali Jain, Raman Yadav, Chitvan Singhal, Kartikay Aggarwal, Abhishek Kumar Pandey, Sateesh Galla, C. Raghavendren, Ch. Leela Sarveswar, Saurabh Gupta, N. Rajaraman, Ms. Lihzu Shiney Konyak, Ms. Astha Sharma, Narendra Kumar, Shuvodeep Roy, Kabir Shankar Bose, Saurabh Tripathi, Devashish Bharuka, Ms. Komal Agarwal, Ms. Kavya Vijay, Ms. Ashtha Chaudhary, Umesh Chandra Srivastava, Ms. Praseena Elizabeth Joseph, Ms. Tulika Mukherjee, Beenu Sharma, Venkat Narayan, Rushab Aggarwal, Pashupathi Nath Razdan, Astik Gupta, Ms. Riddhima J Aggarwal, Japnish Singh Bhatia, D. Abhinav Rao, Mahfooz Ahsan Nazki, Polanki Gowtham, K.V. Girish Chowdary, T. Vijaya Bhaskar Reddy, Ms. Rajeswari Mukherjee, Meeran Maqbool, Ms. Archita Nigam, R. Ravi, Manish Dua, Somanatha Padhan, G. Sheshagiri Rao, Ms. Anu Gupta, Azmat H. Amanullah, Tirupati Gaurav Shahi, Avijit Mani Tripathi, T.K. Nayak, Advs. for the appearing parties. / of the Supreme Court Sanjiv Khanna, CJI Leave granted in Special Leave Petition (Civil) No. 19838 of 2010. 2. This common decides the cross appeals which impugn the dated 05.01.2010, of the Division Bench of the High Court of Andhra Pradesh in Writ Petition Nos. 7956, 7997, and 23682 of 2008. These Writ Petitions challenged the allotment of land parcels, vide several State Government Memoranda,1 within the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation limits. The land was allocated to Cooperative Societies composed of members of various groups, including Members of Parliament,2 Members of both houses 1 For short, “GoM”. 2 For short, “MP”. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1373 State of Andhra Pradesh and Others v. Dr. Rao, V.B.J. Chelikani and Others of the State Legislature,3 officers of All India Services,4 Judges of the Supreme Court and High Court,5 State Government employees, defence personnel, journalists and individuals from weaker sections of society. 3. The High Court, in the impugned , has partly allowed the Writ Petitions, quashing the GoMs that laid down the allotment policy and facilitate the allotments to the Cooperative Societies. It held that the parcels of land allotted to the respondents were to be restored to the Government, and that fresh allotments can only be made following the issuance of appropriate GoMs consistent with the . The High Court further directed that before such GoMs are issued, the State shall call for details of members who meet the eligibility criteria; ensure they sign affidavits declaring their eligibility; and publish this information on its website for public access.