Digital Supreme Court Reports 20. Following the aforesaid principles which are more or less settled and are holding the field since 1962 and have been repeatedly followed by this Court, we are of the view that the second complaint in this case was on almost identical facts which was raised in the first complaint and which was dismissed on merits. So the second complaint is not maintainable. This Court finds that the core of both the complaints is the same. Nothing has been disclosed in the second complaint which is substantially new and not disclosed in first complaint. No case is made out that even after the exercise of due diligence the facts alleged in the second complaint were not within the knowledge of the first complainant. In fact, such a case could not be made out since the facts in both the complaints are almost identical. Therefore, the second complaint is not covered within exceptional circumstances explained in Pramatha Nath. In that view of the matter the second complaint in the facts of this case, cannot be entertained.” (emphasis supplied) 12.4….. 12.5. In Ravinder Singh v. Sukhbir the matter was considered from the standpoint whether a frustrated litigant be permitted to give vent to his frustration and whether a person be permitted to unleash vendetta to harass any person needlessly. The discussion was as under: (SCC pp. 258-60, paras 26-27 & 33) “26. While considering the issue at hand in Shivshankar Singh v. State of Bihar this Court, after considering its earlier s in Pramatha Nath Talukdar v. Saroj Ranjan Sarkar, Jatinder Singh v. Ranjit Kaur, Mahesh Chand v. B. Janardhan Reddy and Poonam Chand Jain v. Fazru held : (Shivshankar Singh case, SCC p. 136, para 18) ‘18. … it is evident that the law does not prohibit filing or entertaining of the second complaint even on the same facts provided the earlier complaint has been decided on [2024] 12 S.C.R. 21 Subrata Choudhury @ Santosh Choudhury & Ors. v. The State of Assam & Anr. the basis of insufficient material or the has been passed without understanding the nature of the complaint or the complete facts could not be placed before the court or where the complainant came to know certain facts after disposal of the first complaint which could have tilted the balance in his favour. However, second complaint would not be maintainable wherein the earlier complaint has been disposed of on full consideration of the case of the complainant on merit.’ 27. In Chandrapal Singh v. Maharaj Singh this Court has held that it is equally true that chagrined and frustrated litigants should not be permitted to give vent to their frustration by enabling them to invoke the jurisdiction of criminal courts in a cheap manner. In such a fact situation, the court must not hesitate to quash criminal proceedings. * * * 33. The High Court has dealt with the issue involved herein and the matter stood closed at the instance of Respondent 1 himself.