1112 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 63. In other words, the aforesaid 2011 amendment reduced the posts for promotion on the basis of merit from 25% to 10% and increased the posts for promotion on the principle of ‘Merit-cum-Seniority’ from 50% to 65% in the cadre of District & Sessions Judge. 64. Rule 5 sub-rule (3) further prescribes the eligibility criteria for the aforesaid two modes of promotion provided in Rule 5(1) of the 2005 Rules, as amended in 2011. The said rule reads as under: - “5. Method of recruitment, qualification and age limit. (3) (I) For being eligible for promotion against 65% of the total posts in the cadre of District Judges required to be filled by promotion on the basis of the principle of merit- cum-seniority, the qualifying service as Senior Civil Judge shall not be less than two years service in the cadre. (II) For eligibility for promotion against the remaining 10% posts required to be filled in by promotion strictly on the basis of merit through limited departmental competitive examination, the qualifying service as Senior Civil Judge shall not be less than five years.” 65. Rule 5 sub-rule (3)(I) of the 2005 Rules stipulates that a minimum of two-years of qualifying service in the feeder cadre i.e., as a Civil Judge (Senior Division) is required in to be eligible to participate in the promotion process for the 65% posts in the cadre of District & Sessions Judge on the basis of the principle of ‘Merit- cum-Seniority’ as envisaged under Rule 5(1)(I). In other words, all Civil Judges (Senior Division), having a minimum of two-years of service, are eligible to be promoted to the 65% posts in the cadre of District & Sessions Judge on the basis of the principle of ‘Merit- cum-Seniority’. 66. On the other hand, Rule 5 sub-rule (3)(II) provides for the requirement of a minimum of five-years of qualifying service in the feeder cadre i.e., as a Civil Judge (Senior Division), for participating in the promotion process for the 10% posts in the cadre of District & Sessions Judge on the basis of strict merit as provided under Rule 5(1)(ii) of the 2005 Rules. In other words, all Civil Judges (Senior Division) who have completed a minimum of five-years of service are eligible to be promoted to the 10% posts in the cadre of District & Sessions Judge on the basis of Merit through the competitive examination. [2024] 5 S.C.R. 1113 Ravikumar Dhansukhlal Maheta & Anr. v. High Court of Gujarat & Ors. 67. In other words, a combined reading of the aforesaid Rule 5(1) with Rule 5(3) of the 2005 Rules makes it clear that there are three distinct modes of recruitment to the cadre of District & Sessions Judge which are as follows: - (I) 65% posts by promotion from the eligible Civil Judges (Senior Division) having a minimum of two-years of service on the basis of ‘Merit-cum-Seniority’; (II) 10% posts by promotion from eligible Civil Judges (Senior Division) with a minimum of five-years of service on basis of merit through a competitive examination and; (III) 25% posts by direct recruitment from the eligible members of the Bar on the basis of a written exam and viva voce.