59. Once the full and final settlement of the original contract itself becomes a matter of dispute and disagreement between the parties, then such a dispute can be categorised as one arising “in relation to” or “in connection with” or “upon” the original contract which can be referred to arbitration in accordance with the arbitration clause contained in the original contract, notwithstanding the plea that there was a full and final settlement between the parties. ii. What is the scope and standard of judicial scrutiny that an application under Section 11(6) of the Act, 1996 can be subjected to when a plea of “accord and satisfaction” is taken by the defendant? 60. Whether the issue as regards the validity of the full and final settlement is to be determined by the referral court acting under Section 11 of the Act, 1996 or by the arbitral tribunal has been considered in a number of decisions of this Court. Some of these [2024] 7 S.C.R. 869 SBI General Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Krish Spinning decisions have also delineated the extent and standard of enquiry which can be undertaken at the stage of Section 11 petition. We shall discuss these decisions in detail for the benefit of the exposition of the law on the subject. 61. One of the earliest decisions dealing with the issue of “full and final settlement” in the specific context of an application for appointment of arbitrator under the Arbitration Act, 1940 was rendered by a two- Judge Bench of this Court in Damodar Valley Corporation v. K.K. Kar reported in (1974) 1 SCC 141. It was observed, inter alia, that any dispute arising in relation to the validity of the discharge by “accord and satisfaction” would be covered by the arbitration agreement contained in the original contract, and thus should be referred to the arbitral tribunal for determination. The relevant observations are extracted hereinbelow: “4. On these facts the short question for determination is: where one of the parties refers a dispute or disputes to arbitration and the other party takes a plea that there was a final settlement of all claims, is the Court, on an application under Sections 9(b) and 33 of the Act, entitled to enquire into the truth and validity of the averment as to whether there was or was not a final settlement on the ground that if that was proved, it would bar a reference to the arbitration inasmuch as the arbitration clause itself would perish. xxx xxx xxx 6. It appears to us that the question whether there has been a full and final settlement of a claim under the contract is itself a dispute arising “upon” or “in relation to” or “in connection with” the contract. These words are wide enough to cover the dispute sought to be referred. The respondent’s contention is that the contract has been repudiated by the appellant unilaterally as a result of which he had no option but to accept that repudiation because if the appellant was not ready to receive the goods he could not supply them to him or force him to receive them.