57. That being the state of affairs, it seems to us that remittance of the case to the High Court is not likely to bring quietus to the endless litigation. The party who gets aggrieved by the judgement of the Division Bench owing to the previous record will most likely approach this Court again. The litigation has taken its toll on the financial and health conditions of the private Respondents, in their old age. We are, therefore, of the considered view that as long as the Respondents can be suitably compensated without subjecting them to any recovery and in such a manner that the relief so granted does not become a precedent for one and all to open a Pandora’s box and drag the State into a flood of litigation, it would be in the interests of one and [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1345 State of Uttar Pradesh and Anr. v. Virendra Bahadur Katheria and Ors. all that such like litigation which has the potentiality of multiplying in the future, should be brought to an end without any delay. 58. We, therefore, find it a fit case to invoke the extraordinary powers held by this Court under Article 142 of the Constitution. It is well settled that Article 142 empowers this Court to pass s in the ‘larger interest of the administration of justice’ and ‘preventing manifest injustice’.8 This is more so in cases involving protracted litigation and delay,9 such as in the present case. It is a matter of common knowledge that the cases entailing discord over pay parity, are frequently subjected to prolonged litigation. These squabbles often lead to parties enduring significant challenges and hardships over extended periods as they await adjudication. Regrettably, the delay in resolving such matters usually renders them infructuous by the time a decision is reached. 59. Thus, in light of the long pending litigation between the parties, the rights of the parties involved, and to give quietus to the issue, we deem it appropriate to pass s towards doing substantial justice. CONCLUSION AND DIRECTIONS 60. We, therefore, allow this appeal in part and issue the following directions and conclusions by invoking our powers under Article 142 of the Constitution, for the removal of discrepancy in the pay scales prescribed for the posts of SDI/ ABSA and DBSA: i. The appeal is allowed in part. The Impugned Judgement of the Division Bench in its entirety and that of the Single Judge of the High Court in part, are set aside. ii. The 2011 is approved in its entirety. iii. The private Respondents and their colleagues in the same cadre (before and after the redesignation of their posts) are held entitled to the pay scale, strictly in accordance with the 2011 . The Respondents and other members of their cadre and all members of the Caveator-organization shall be entitled to the pay scale granted by the said Government , notionally from 01.01.2006 and actually from 01.12.2008. 8 Nidhi Kaim v. State of Madhya Pradesh (2017) 4 SCC 1 9 Abbobaker v. Mahalakshmi Trading Co. (1998) 2 SCC 753 1346 [2024] 7 S.C.R.