This would significantly improve its implementation and yield better results for all the stakeholders involved. While the receptiveness of the regime to the incorporation of novel and relevant recommendations is important, it is paramount that there also be strict adherence to the existing provisions of the Code, both in letter and spirit. 168. Scrupulous following of the provisions of the Code along with behavioural and ethical discipline is especially required from the key participants of the IBC who are central to its design i.e., the Adjudicating Authorities, Corporate Debtor, Resolution Professionals, Committee of Creditors, potential and Successful Resolution Applicants, Approved Valuers and Liquidators. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2161 State Bank of India & Ors. v. The Consortium of Mr. Murari Lal Jalan and Mr. Florian Fritsch & Anr. 169. A Resolution Plan evolves through these players referred to above. However, it is the “commercial wisdom of the CoC” that assumes a position of superiority and becomes binding on all the stakeholders. The NCLT, which is the adjudicating authority and who has to approve the Resolution Plan under Section 31 of the IBC, 2016 also cannot trespass into the commercial wisdom exercised by the CoC. This decision to restrict the scope of interference on the commercial wisdom of the CoC was conscious and possibly taken bearing in mind the time delays that may arise out of a subsequent adjudication of the resolution plans approved by the CoC. Therefore, the commercial wisdom of the CoC has achieved paramount status, immune from any judicial intervention, to ensure the completion of the respective processes under the IBC, 2016 within the timelines prescribed therein. 170. The position that the “commercial wisdom” of the CoC is non- justiciable and only a limited judicial review is available in this regard is well-settled through several decisions of this Court. This Court in the case of K Shashidhar v. Indian Overseas Bank and Ors. reported in (2019) 12 SCC 150, held that: “52. As aforesaid, upon receipt of a “rejected” resolution plan the adjudicating authority (NCLT) is not expected to do anything more; but is obligated to initiate liquidation process under Section 33(1) of the I&B Code. The legislature has not endowed the adjudicating authority (NCLT) with the jurisdiction or authority to analyse or evaluate the commercial decision of CoC much less to enquire into the justness of the rejection of the resolution plan by the dissenting financial creditors. From the legislative history and the background in which the I&B Code has been enacted, it is noticed that a completely new approach has been adopted for speeding up the recovery of the debt due from the defaulting companies. In the new approach, there is a calm period followed by a swift resolution process to be completed within 270 days (outer limit) failing which, initiation of liquidation process has been made inevitable and mandatory. In the earlier regime, the corporate debtor could indefinitely continue to enjoy the protection given under Section 22 of the Sick Industrial Companies Act, 1985 or under other such enactments which has now been forsaken.