The term ‘readiness and willingness’ refers to the 4 [2013] 11 SCR 80 : (2014) 11 SCC 790 626 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports state of mind and conduct of the purchaser, as also his capacity and preparedness, one without the other being not sufficient. Therefore, a third party having no personal knowledge about the transaction cannot give evidence about the readiness and willingness. 13. In the light of above settled legal position, we are of the view that in the instant case, the plaintiff/appellant has failed to enter into the witness box and subject himself to cross-examination, he has not been able to prove the pre-requisites of Section 12 of the Specific Relief Act,1963 and more so, when the original agreement contained a definite time for registration of sale deed which was later on extended but the suit was filed on the last date of limitation calculated on the basis of the last extended time. 14. The effect of filing a suit for specific performance after long delay, may be at the fag end of period of limitation fell for consideration before this Court in K.S. Vidyanadam vs. Vairavan5 wherein this Court held thus in para 10: “10. It has been consistently held by the courts in India, following certain early English decisions, that in the case of agreement of sale relating to immovable property, time is not of the essence of the contract unless specifically provided to that effect. The period of limitation prescribed by the Limitation Act for filing a suit is three years. From these two circumstances, it does not follow that any and every suit for specific performance of the agreement (which does not provide specifically that time is of the essence of the contract) should be decreed provided it is filed within the period of limitation notwithstanding the time-limits stipulated in the agreement for doing one or the other thing by one or the other party. That would amount to saying that the time-limits prescribed by the parties in the agreement have no significance or value and that they mean nothing. Would it be reasonable to say that because time is not made the essence of the contract, the time- limit(s) specified in the agreement have no relevance and can be ignored with impunity? It would also mean denying the discretion vested in the court by both Sections 10 5 [1997] 1 SCR 993 : (1997) 3 SCC 1 [2024] 5 S.C.R. 627 Rajesh Kumar v. Anand Kumar & Ors. and 20. As held by a Constitution Bench of this Court in Chand Rani v. Kamal Rani [(1993) 1 SCC 519]: (SCC p. 528, para 25)………………” 15. In Azhar Sultana vs. B. Rajamani & Ors.6, this Court held thus in para 28: “28. ……….The court, keeping in view the fact that it exercises a discretionary jurisdiction, would be entitled to take into consideration as to whether the suit had been filed within a reasonable time. What would be a reasonable time would, however, depend upon the facts and circumstances of each case.