Admission by party to proceeding or his agent.––Statements made by a party to the proceeding, or by an agent to any such party, whom the Court regards, under the circumstances of the case, as expressly or impliedly authorised by him to make them, are admissions. by suitor in representative character.––Statements made by parties to suits suing or sued in a representative character, are not admissions, unless they were made while the party making them held that character. Statements made by –– (1) by party interested in subject-matter.–– persons who have any proprietary or pecuniary interest in the subject-matter of the proceeding, and who make the statement in their character of persons so interested, or (2) by person from whom interest derived.–– persons from whom the parties to the suit have derived their interest in the subject-matter of the suit, are admissions, if they are made during the continuance of the interest of the persons making the statements..” 422 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 13.3 Section 18 of the Act deals with: (i) admission by a party to a proceeding, (ii) his agent, (iii) by a suitor in a representative character, (iv) statements made by a party in trusted subject matter, (v) statements made by a person from whom interest is derived. The qualifying circumstances to merit as admission are subject to satisfying the requirements. 14. The Privy Council in Gopal Das and another v. Sri Thakurji and others2, held that a statement made by a person is not only evidence against the person but is also evidence against those who claim through him. Section 18 of the Act lays down the conditions and the requirements satisfied for applying to a statement as an admission. We keep in our perspective Sections 17 and 18 of the Act while appreciating Exs. B-3 and B-6. 15. The Appellants rely on Exs. B-3 to B-6 to evidence that Muthusamy Gounder treated Appellant No. 1, Respondent No. 1 and Respondent No. 3 as his sons. Now let us examine whether these exhibits, firstly, contain an admission on the relevant fact in issue and secondly, whether they satisfy the requirements under Section 18 of the Act. Ex. B-6 is the registered mortgage deed dated 01.11.1976 executed by Muthusamy Gounder/propositus in favour of one Karuppana Gounder. Sy. No. 66 of Pallipayam, Agraharam Village was the mortgage deed executed by Muthusamy Gounder in favour of Karuppana Gounder. The mortgaged property is one of the items in the schedule in O.S. No. 357 of 1985. Muthusamy Gounder in Ex. B-6 stated as follows: - “Mortgage deed executed in favour of Karuppannna Gounder, son of…Vellaya Gounder, residing at Vaagaikkadu, Cusba Elandaikkuttai Village, Thiruchengodu Taluk, Salem District. 2 AIR 1943 PC 83 [2024] 1 S.C.R. 423 Raja Gounder and Others v. M. Sengodan and Others By Muthusamy Gounder (1) son of Sengoda Gounder, residing at Malagoundenpalayam, Kaliyanoor Ayan Village, - Do - Taluk, - Do - District, Guardian and father of the minors Subramani (2) Raja Gounder (3) and Sengodam (4), for himself and on behalf of the minors Nos.