They operate in separate spheres. We now proceed to interpret the phrase ‘intoxicating liquor’. 109. The Oxford English Dictionary provides multiple meanings of the word ‘Liquor’. They include: (a) alcoholic drinks, especially spirits; (b) water used in brewing; (c) liquid that has been produced in or used for cooking; and (d) liquid from which a substance has been crystallized or extracted. Liquor thus broadly takes two meanings, of an alcoholic beverage or liquid. The word ‘intoxicate’ is defined to mean: (a) cause someone to lose control of their senses; (b) poison; and (c) excite or exhilarate. 110. The dictionary meanings of the phrases ‘liquor’ and ‘intoxicate’ are variable. If liquor is interpreted to mean ‘liquid’ instead of an alcoholic beverage and intoxication a reference to alcohol, the Entry would cover all liquids that contain alcohol. However, if liquor is interpreted to mean alcoholic beverage, the Entry would only cover alcoholic beverages for human consumption which causes intoxication, that is, potable alcohol. 111. Entry 51 of List II refers to duties of excise on, inter alia, “alcoholic liquors for human consumption”. Article 47 which is placed in the Part on the Directive Principles of State Policy stipulates that the State shall endeavour to bring prohibition of the consumption of intoxicating drinks and drugs injurious to health, except for medicinal purposes. The provision lists this as one of the aspects of the duty of the State to improve public health. The phrase liquor is also used in multiple places in the 6th Schedule to the Constitution. The 6th Schedule stipulates provisions on the administration of Tribal Areas in the States of Assam, Meghalaya, Tripura and Mizoram. Paragraphs 12, 12AA and 12B provide for the application of Acts of Parliament and of the Legislature of the State to the autonomous 191 MPV Sundararamier & Co. v. State of Andhra Pradesh (1958) 9 STC 298 [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2025 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons districts and regions in the States of Assam, Tripura and Mizoram. The provisions stipulate that the enactments of the Legislature of the State “prohibiting or restricting the consumption of any non- distilled alcoholic liquor” would not apply to the autonomous Districts or autonomous regions.192 The expressions in the 6th Schedule will not be of aid to interpret Entry 8 because it refers to a legislation enacted by the State Legislature under Entry 8. 112. Thus, the Constitution uses three distinct expressions relating to alcohol: “intoxicating liquor”, “alcoholic liquor for human consumption” and “intoxicating drinks”. The evolution of the entries in the legislative Lists indicate that it was a conscious decision to substitute ‘alcoholic liquor’ with ‘intoxicating liquor’ in the regulatory provision. It was also a conscious decision to use different phrases in the taxing entry and the regulatory entry. We do not think that it is necessary for us to lay down the contours of the different phrases used in the Constitution. That is a decision for another day and in another case.