The 2402 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports bona fides of the plaintiffs are also apparent from the fact that if they were actually doing any mischief, fraud, or misrepresentation, they would have immediately got the sale deeds executed and registered through the Power of Attorney of M.K. Maheshwari soon after its execution on 04.09.1990. But, they did not do so and continued to request Sushila Devi and, later, her legal heirs to execute the sale deed, even after her death. However, when they failed to do so and upon the death of Sushila Devi, applied for mutation of their names in the revenue records and the plaintiff-appellants had to file objections in the revenue proceedings, they were compelled to file the suit. 4. LIMITATION 30. The limitation for filing a suit for specific performance is three years from the date fixed for the performance or if no such date is fixed, when the plaintiff had notice that the performance is refused as stipulated in Article 54 of the Schedule to the Limitation Act, 1963. In the present case, the Agreement to Sell did not mention any date for the performance, nor did Sushila Devi refused at any point of time and soon after the death of Sushila Devi in December 1992, the plaintiffs having come to know of the mutation proceedings by her legal heirs, they proceeded to file the suit, after giving notice in May 1995, which was well within a period of three years. The High Court fell in error in holding that the suit is barred by limitation as it was filed after more than three years from the date of execution of Agreement to Sell. The High Court failed to take into consideration that it was the second part of Article 54 of the Schedule to the Limitation Act which would be applicable once there was no date fixed for performance in the Agreement to Sell. 5. ORIGINAL TITLE DEEDS WITH THE PLAINTIFFS- APPELLANTS 31. Sushila Devi had purchased the property in question in the year 1966 by way of a sale deed dated 23.04.1966. The said sale deed would normally be in possession of Sushila Devi or her legal heirs. Surprisingly, the said original sale deed of 1966 was filed and duly exhibited by the plaintiffs-appellants. Even the original Rin Pustika in the name of Sushila Devi was also filed by the plaintiffs-appellants and duly exhibited. Kailash Aggarwal (Sushila Devi’s eldest son) [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2403 Shyam Kumar Inani v. Vinod Agrawal & Ors. is said to have been present both at the time of Agreement to Sell dated 30.08.1990 and again at the time of execution and registration of General Power of Attorney on 04.09.1990. Original title deed and Rin Pustika must have been handed over in his presence. How and why the original sale deed of 1966 and Rin Pustika of Sushila Devi were in possession of the plaintiffs-appellants had not been explained by the defendants, nor did they dispute that the 1966 sale deed and the Rin Pustika in the name of Sushila Devi were forged and fabricated documents.