Besides, the commercial wisdom 2162 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports of CoC has been given paramount status without any judicial intervention, for ensuring completion of the stated processes within the timelines prescribed by the I&B Code. There is an intrinsic assumption that financial creditors are fully informed about the viability of the corporate debtor and feasibility of the proposed resolution plan. They act on the basis of thorough examination of the proposed resolution plan and assessment made by their team of experts. The opinion on the subject-matter expressed by them after due deliberations in CoC meetings through voting, as per voting shares, is a collective business decision. The legislature, consciously, has not provided any ground to challenge the “commercial wisdom” of the individual financial creditors or their collective decision before the adjudicating authority. That is made non-justiciable.” (emphasis supplied) 171. Thus, there is no doubt that the commercial wisdom of the CoC cannot be subjected to judicial review. However, in to foster a much more effective and time-bound decision making by the members of the CoC, in the interests of maximization of value of the assets of the Corporate Debtor, certain self-regulating guidelines were issued by the IBBI on 06.08.2024 with immediate effect. The Guidelines for Committee of Creditors are reproduced hereinbelow: “6. Guidelines A member of the CoC shall: - Objectivity and Integrity (a) follow relevant provisions of the Code and regulations, in letter and spirit, while performing their roles and functions. (b) maintain integrity in discharging their roles and functions as envisioned under the Code. (c) maintain objectivity during the decision-making process. (d) foster informed decision making and share with the CoC/ Insolvency Professional any relevant information [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2163 State Bank of India & Ors. v. The Consortium of Mr. Murari Lal Jalan and Mr. Florian Fritsch & Anr. relating to transactions, guarantees, recoveries, claims, etc. relating to the corporate debtor Independence and Impartiality (e) disclose to the CoC/ Insolvency Professional the details of any existing or potential conflict of interest arising due to pecuniary, personal or professional relationship with any stakeholder, immediately on becoming aware of it. Professional Competence and Participation (f) keep themselves updated with the provisions of the Code, rules and regulations and the role and responsibilities assigned thereunder. (g) nominate representative with proper authorisation and sufficient mandate to effectively participate in meetings. The nominated representative may endeavour to obtain approval of the competent authority, if required, at the earliest. (h) participate actively, constructively and effectively in deliberations and decision making of the CoC. Co-operation, supervision and timeliness (i) supervise and facilitate the Insolvency Professional in discharging his duties under the Code. (j) facilitate expeditious appointment of various professionals within the timelines prescribed under the Code and regulations. (k) endeavour to resolve any inter-se disputes between the members, particularly in relation to claims, preferably, through dialogue, or other non-adversarial means, with a view to avoid litigation to the extent possible. Confidentiality (l) ensure at all times complete adherence to the undertaking regarding confidentiality of information.