[2024] 11 S.C.R. 441 Mukul Kumar Tyagi v. The State of Uttar Pradesh and Others 21. A perusal of the said of this Court would reveal that this Court upheld the finding of the learned Single Judge that the advertisement dated 14th September 2014 did not envisage self-certification of the candidate of equivalence to CCC certificate. It further held that the self-certification by the candidates of their computer qualification was not sufficient to treat them having passed the required qualification. It will further be relevant to refer to the following observations of this Court in the said case: “71. The above direction indicates that select list insofar as the candidates, who had certificates from NIELIT/ DOEACC was not quashed, their position in the select list was not disturbed and select list was partly quashed only with regard to those candidates, who did not have CCC or NIELIT certificate. The object or purpose of the direction was to scrutinise the qualifications of those candidates, who have claimed equivalent certificate. The above direction of the learned Single Judge was only for the purpose to scrutinise the qualification of those candidates, who are found possessing equivalent computer qualification so as to retain their names in the select list. After the of the learned Single Judge dated 7-10-2017 [Prashant Kumar Jaiswal v. State of U.P. Writ A No. 41750 of 2015, dated 7-10-2017 (All)] , the Commission in revising the merit list accepted the guidelines given under the Government dated 3-5-2016. The guidelines prescribed under the Government dated 3-5-2016 are as follows: “(a) The qualification of High School or intermediate examination with an independent subject or Computer Science from Madhyamik Shiksha Parishad, Uttar Pradesh or from any Institution/Education Board/Council established by the Central or any State Government. (b) If any candidate has obtained diploma or degree in Computer Science then he shall also be eligible to be recruited as Junior Assistant/ Stenographer.” 442 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 72. Thus, in the revised select list apart from candidates, who had CCC certificates from DOEACC/ NIELIT, the candidates who were covered under guidelines dated 3-5-2016 were also treated as equivalent to CCC and were given place in the merit list subject to marks secured by them in the written test and interview.” 22. It can be seen that this Court held that the object and purpose of the direction was to scrutinize the qualifications of those candidates, who had claimed equivalent certificate. It was only for the purpose to scrutinize the qualification of those candidates, who were found possessing equivalent computer qualification so as to retain their names in the select list. It is further clear that the direction given by the learned Single Judge was applicable, apart from the candidates who were having CCC certificate from DOEACC/NIELIT, to the candidates who were covered under the guidelines dated 3rd May 2016 and were also treated as equivalent to CCC certificate. Ultimately, this Court upheld the finding of the learned Single Judge and held that there was no reason to interfere with the finding of the learned Single Judge.