1945 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. a. Founders should belong to either religious or linguist community; b. Historical antecedents of the institution which show the active involvement, intention, and contributions of minority founders or the community; c. Founders’ intent to establish an institute should be bona fide, and not devious or dubious and for the benefit of the minority community; d. Constitutional documents (such as statute, rules, or regulations) read as a whole should show predominance of minority character; e. Administration of the institution if it is vested in the founders or persons in whom the founders have faith and confidence; f. Imparting of religious education, or providing for religious instruction and worship g. Symbols such as the name, architecture, motto, and such other cultural symbols of the minority. 90. It is further submitted that declaration as to a particular institute bearing national importance under Entry 63, List 1 and status as a minority institution operate in different spheres. It is open for the Parliament to declare an institution of national importance because of its academic excellence, strategic and security interests, geographic location, cultural or religious prominence, or even granting aid. Therefore, it is argued that the reasons for granting the tag of ‘national importance’ may be varied and unrestricted, which are different than the factors determinative of minority character of a particular institute. It was argued that the declaration under Entry 63, List 1 shall always be subject to the rights under Article 30. 91. Mr. Kapil Sibal, Ld. Senior Counsel, submitted in rejoinder that the minority has a right under Article 30 to administer the institution which it has established, which it may exercise or may not exercise. It is not the duty of the said community to administer once it has established. Therefore, in the present case, even if it is assumed that the administration of AMU is not with the Muslim community, it would not mean that the AMU will cease to be a minority institution since it has been established as such by Muslim community. 1946 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 92. It was argued that to that extent, the is Azeez Basha [supra] has been decided wrongly. Further, it is urged that if right to administer is exercised and if the Government interferes in such right, the minority institute can challenge such interference on the ground of it being violative of Article 30. Moreover, the Muslim minority wanted to establish a university which could grant degrees of its own which would have to be recognised by the Government. It was argued that subscribing to a regulatory framework that would offer better opportunities to students who enrolled with the institution, is a choice that has no relation to the alleged surrender of minority status. 93. Mr. Shadan Farasat, learned counsel, compared the provisions of all the Acts establishing the Universities, existing at the relevant time to show that the denominational nature is evident from the level of autonomy granted vis-a-vis, the non-denominational universities of the relevant time and sought to argue that the provisions of the AMU Act clearly depict the minority character of the institution even at the time of inception.