The law of inheritance in Islam is relatively close to the classical Dayabhaga law, though it differs also from 9 The author is a recognized expert on Islamic law, having written numerous acclaimed works on the subject. He was a retired professor of law at Delhi University and the founder of Department of Islamic Law at the Indian Institute of Islamic Studies, New Delhi. [2024] 12 S.C.R. 931 Mansoor Saheb (Dead) & Ors. v. Salima (D) By Lrs. & Ors. that on several fundamental points. The modern Hindu law of succession (as laid down in the Hindu Succession Act, 1956) is, however, much different from both the aforesaid classical systems; it has a remarkable proximity, in certain respects, to the Muslim law of inheritance. 2. The division of heritage (daya) into sapratibandh (‘obstructed’) and apratibandh (‘unobstructed’)-self- acquired and ancestral- is equally foreign to Muslim law. Whatever property one inherits (whether from his ancestors or from others) is, at Muslim law, one’s absolute property- whether that person is a man or a woman. 3. In Muslim law, so long as a person is alive he or she is the absolute owner of his or her property; nobody else (including a son) has any right, whatsoever, in it. It is only when the owner dies- and never before- that the legal rights of the heirs accrue. There is, therefore, no question of a would-be heir dealing in any way with his future right to inherit. 4. The Indian legal concepts of ‘joint’ or ‘undivided’ family, ‘coparcenary’, karta, ‘survivorship’, and ‘partition’, etc., have no place in the law of Islam. A father and his son living together do not constitute a ‘joint family’; the father is the master of his property; the son (even if a minor) of his, if he has any. The same is the position of brothers or others living together. 5. Unlike the classical Indian law, female sex is no bar to inherit property. No woman is excluded from inheritance only on the basis of sex. Women have, like men, right to inherit property independently, not merely to receive maintenance or hold property ‘in lieu of maintenance’. Moreover, every woman who inherits some property is, like a man, its absolute owner; there is no concept of either stridhan or a woman’s ‘limited estate’ reverting to others upon her death. 932 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 6. The same scheme of succession applies whether the deceased was male or a female. This is one of those salient features of Muslim law of succession which distinguish it from modern Hindu law of inheritance.” (Emphasis supplied) 15. The position on devolution of property under Mohammedan Law has been succinctly captured in Chapter 22- Law of Succession and Inheritance of Mulla on Mohammedan Law 5th Edition in the following terms: “all properties devolve by succession, so the rights of heirs come into existence only on the death of the ancestor. The whole property vests in them.” The Mohammedan Law has well- defined rules of inheritance that come into effect upon the death of the ancestor, and its policy has been to restrain the owner from interfering in such well-defined rules.