Before proceeding further, we may advert to Section 8 of the Evidence Act. Section 8 insofar as it is relevant for our purpose makes the conduct of an accused person relevant, if such conduct influences or is influenced by any fact in issue or relevant fact. It could be either a previous or subsequent conduct. There are two Explanations to the section, which explains the ambit of the word ‘conduct’. They are: “Explanation 1.- The word ‘conduct’ in this section does not include statements, unless those statements accompany and explain acts other than statements, but this explanation is not to affect the relevancy of statements under any other section of this Act. Explanation 2.- When the conduct of any person is relevant, any statement made to him or in his presence and hearing, which affects such conduct, is relevant.” The conduct, in to be admissible, must be such that it has close nexus with a fact in issue or relevant fact. Explanation 1 makes it clear that the mere statements as distinguished from acts do not constitute “conduct” unless those statements “accompany and explain acts other than statements”. Such statements accompanying the acts are considered to be evidence of res gestae. Two illustrations appended to Section 8 deserve special mention: “(f) The question is, whether A robbed B. The facts that, after B was robbed, C said in A’s presence— ‘the police are coming to look for the man who robbed B’, and that immediately afterwards A ran away, are relevant. * * * 202 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (i) A is accused of a crime. The facts that, after the commission of the alleged crime, he absconded, or was in possession of property or the proceeds of property acquired by the crime, or attempted to conceal things which were or might have been used in committing it, are relevant.” 206. We have already noticed the distinction highlighted in Prakash Chand case (supra) between the conduct of an accused which is admissible under Section 8 and the statement made to a police officer in the course of an investigation which is hit by Section 162 Cr.P.C. The evidence of the circumstance, simpliciter, that the accused pointed out to the police officer, the place where stolen articles or weapons used in the commission of the offence were hidden, would be admissible as “conduct” under Section 8 irrespective of the fact whether the statement made by the accused contemporaneously with or antecedent to such conduct, falls within the purview of Section 27, as pointed out in Prakash Chand case. In Om Prakash case (supra) this Court held that: (SCC p.262, para 14) “Even apart from the admissibility of the information under Section 27, the evidence of the investigating officer and the panchas that the accused had taken them to PW 11 (from whom he purchased the weapon) and pointed him out and as corroborated by PW 11 himself would be admissible under Section 8 of the Evidence Act as conduct of the accused.”” (Emphasis supplied) 61.