Upon a comparative overview of both the s of removal, the similarities between the two are inescapable. 35. Having said so, we may point out that the respondent-employee’s representation has been considered in the fresh Removal , albeit not in as many words. Going forward, wherever and whenever the Disciplinary Authorities concerned impose a major punishment, it will be appropriate for their s to better engage with the representations/submissions of the delinquent employees concerned. However, in the instant case, in view of the evidentiary material and the process by which a fair opportunity was given to the respondent to present his version, we are dissuaded from upholding the Impugned on account of minor deficiency/ies in the process. As noted hereinbefore, the same have not caused prejudice to the respondent to the extent warranting judicial interdiction. 36. At this juncture, it would be relevant to point out that on a specific query to the learned counsel for the respondent apropos the charges pertaining to non-handing over of full charge at the relevant point of time; appointing persons without permission from the Collector/ Registrar; as also, returning the money after one and a half years by the respondent, learned counsel could not controvert the factual position and only relied upon the rendered by the learned Single Judge and the Impugned . Moreover, looking to the respondent’s conduct, we do not find any arbitrariness or perversity in the punishment awarded to him. 174 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 37. Accordingly, for the reasons recorded above, the Impugned is quashed and set aside, and the Removal dated 28.09.1993 passed by the Disciplinary Authority is restored. Consequences in law to follow. However, by way of extraordinary indulgence, keeping in mind the fact that the respondent has retired and is aged, payments, if any, already made to him in the interregnum, shall not be recovered by the appellants. The appeals are disposed of in the above terms. No as to costs. Result of the case: Appeals disposed of. †Headnotes prepared by: Nidhi Jain