Even before the stage for leading evidence having matured, the appellants allege that the High Court has unnecessarily interfered and deflected the course of justice. 9. On the contrary, the respondents have voiced in chorus that the approach of the High Court is one that sub-serves justice with a view to secure the precious right to life of the respondents by narrowing down the controversy so that the proceedings could be taken to its logical conclusion as early as possible. Mr. Pai, learned senior [2024] 12 S.C.R. 851 Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai & Ors. v. Vivek V. Gawde Etc. Etc. counsel for the respondents, however, has been fair in conceding certain points but having regard to the long pendency of the eviction proceedings, we do not wish to decide any point resting on such concession. 10. Having recorded thus, we now proceed to adjudicate the lis on merits. 11. We deem it fit to commence the discussion with an examination of the constitutional provisions invoked by the respondents before the High Court i.e. under Articles 226 and 227. Challenge was laid in the writ petitions to an passed by the Principal Judge, City Civil Court, Mumbai, in appeals under section 105F of the Act. Such held the respondents’ appeals to be not maintainable. In their writ petition, the respondents sought, inter alia, a writ of certiorari to quash the s passed by the Principal Civil Judge and that of the Inquiry Officer. We shall first proceed to examine the challenge laid to the former. 12. A perusal of section 105F(1) would be of profit. It reads: 105F. Appeals. (1) An appeal shall lie from every of the Commissioner, made in respect of any corporation premises, under section 105B or section 105C, to an appellate officer who shall be the principal Judge of the City Civil Court of Bombay or, such other judicial officer in Brihan Mumbai of not less than ten years’ standing, as the principal Judge may designate in this behalf. 13. The question that arises is, whether the was passed by the Principal Judge as a persona designata, so as to be amenable to writ jurisdiction under Article 226 or whether the same was passed in the capacity of a judicial authority for the same to be amenable to Article 227 jurisdiction? This question has been emphatically answered by a 3-Judge Bench decision of this Court in LIC v. Nandini J. Shah,3 wherein this Court with respect to a similar provision of appeal in the Public Premises (Eviction of Unauthorised Occupants) Act, 1971 held that: “34. ***We are not called upon to consider the question as to whether the Estate Officer, while exercising powers invested in him, acts as a court or has the trappings of a 3 (2018) 15 SCC 356 852 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports court. The only question that we have attempted to answer is whether the appointment of the Appellate Officer referred to in Section 9 of the Act before whom an appeal shall lie, is in the capacity of persona designata or as a court.