PW-4 1078 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports Bharat Kumar and PW-5 Arjun Sinh were examined in support of the said purported discovery panchnama. This document, however, is seriously disputed by the defence. According to the defence, the panchnama (Exh.9) of the place of the occurrence was already drawn on 14.04.2016 between 16:00 hrs and 18:30 hrs and by the time the discovery panchnama (Exh.18) was drawn at around 09:00 a.m. on 15.04.2016, the place of occurrence was already known to the prosecution. 10. It is also the case of the prosecution that as part of the same transaction when the place of occurrence was discovered and after the said panchnama was drawn at around 09:00 a.m. on 15.04.2016, the accused voluntarily expressed willingness to show the place where he had thrown the clothes of the victim and in pursuance thereof the recovery panchnama (Exh.21) was drawn up between 09:15 hours and 09:45 hrs on 15.04.2016 and a light pink coloured Tshirt and a red coloured leggings were recovered The prosecution has examined PW-6 Maheshbhai in support of the recoveries. The defence has strongly objected to the admissibility of the recoveries on the ground that no statement of the accused was recorded on this aspect and that what is available is merely a purported recovery carried out. We have considered this aspect in the later part of the coupled with the applicability of Section 8 of the Evidence Act to see if the conduct of the accused in leading to the place where the clothes of the deceased were found would be admissible in evidence. 11. We have heard Ms. Uttara Babbar, learned senior counsel for the appellant, appearing pro bono, who presented the case comprehensively and filed detailed written submissions. We have also heard Ms. Swati Ghildiyal, learned counsel for the State who in ably advancing the State’s case, left no stone unturned in countering the submissions of the learned senior counsel for the appellant. Detailed written submissions were also filed by her. We have perused the records including the records of the trial court. 12. The case rests on circumstantial evidence. We are conscious of the five golden principles repeatedly reiterated by this Court which are to be borne in mind in cases involved with circumstantial evidence. In the leading case of Sharad Birdhichand Sarda vs State of Maharashtra, (1984) 4 SCC 116, it was held as under:- [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1079 Sambhubhai Raisangbhai Padhiyar v. State of Gujarat “153. A close analysis of this decision would show that the following conditions must be fulfilled before a case against an accused can be said to be fully established: “(1) the circumstances from which the conclusion of guilt is to be drawn should be fully established. It may be noted here that this Court indicated that the circumstances concerned “must or should” and not “may be” established. There is not only a grammatical but a legal distinction between “may be proved” and “must be or should be proved” as was held by this Court in Shivaji Sahabrao Bobade v. State of Maharashtra [(1973) 2 SCC 793 : 1973 SCC (Cri) 1033 : 1973 Crl LJ 1783] where the observations were made: “Certainly, it is a primary principle that the accused must be and not merely may be guilty before a court can convict and the mental distance between ‘may be’ and ‘must be’ is long and divides vague conjectures from sure conclusions.” (2) the facts so established should be consistent only with the hypothesis of the guilt of the accused, that is to say, they should not be explainable on any other hypothesis except that the accused is guilty, (3) the circumstances should be of a conclusive nature and tendency, (4) they should exclude every possible hypothesis except the one to be proved, and (5) there must be a chain of evidence so complete as not to leave any reasonable ground for the conclusion consistent with the innocence of the accused and must show that in all human probability the act must have been done by the accused.” Approaching the case at hand with the above principles in mind, we find the following.