for the Respondents. / of the Supreme Court Pamidighantam Sri Narasimha, J. 1. These appeals arise out of two s passed by the National Green Tribunal (“Tribunal” for short). The main arises out of an ex parte in suo motu proceedings holding the appellants to be [2024] 1 S.C.R. 1187 Veena Gupta & Anr. v. Central Pollution Control Board & Ors. guilty and directing payment of compensation. The second is the dismissal of the review petition filed by the appellant No.2 alleging that he had not been given an opportunity before an adverse was passed against him. For the reasons to follow, we set aside the s and remand the matter back to the Tribunal to issue notice to all the affected parties, hear them and pass appropriate s. 2. The relevant portion of the impugned1 is as under: “7. Even though no notice was issued by the Tribunal to the PP in absence of particulars, the Joint Committee has visited the site. Notice has been issued to the PP under the Employees Compensation Act for death of a person. Remedial measures have been suggested for future. The PP has been found to be operating without statutory consents in non-conforming area without safety precautions, endangering life and health of others. In these circumstances, reserving liberty to the PP to move this Tribunal, we do not consider it necessary to defer the matter and to proceed by notice to the PP in view of established facts, duly verified by the statutory authorities who are themselves competent to take the recommended measures. 8. In view of the above, further action may be taken by the Statutory Authorities, following due process. The compensation assessed may be recovered and if not paid within one month, coercive measures be taken against the concerned persons as well as against the property involved. We request the Member Secretary, Delhi State Legal Services Authority to ensure legal aid to the heirs of the deceased to enable due compensation to be paid to them. If the owners/tenant or other persons against whom action is taken are aggrieved, they are at liberty to take their remedies, including moving this Tribunal. The Authorities may also maintain vigil and take measures to prevent such incidents in future. We have noted the constitution of zone wise STF to check the illegal industrial activities and godowns in residential/non-conforming areas 1 Original Application No. 65/2021, dated 31.08.2021 1188 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports and are of the view that the same should be manned by officers of higher rank than the constitution now proposed. The Chief Secretary, Delhi may review the constitution accordingly.” 3. It is evident from the above that the Tribunal itself has noted that notices were not issued to the Project Proponents. The Tribunal, in fact, considers it unnecessary to hear the Project Proponent to verify the facts in issue. The Tribunal thought it appropriate to adopt this method in view of a Joint Inspection Report that had been submitted.