It held that while saving powers of judicial review of legislative action, vested in the High Courts under Articles 226 and 227 would ensure that frivolous claims are filtered out through the process of adjudication in the Tribunal. The High Court will also have the benefit of a reasoned decision on merits which will be of use to it in finally deciding the matter. The Constitution Bench of this Court clearly holds that all decisions of Tribunals, whether created pursuant to Article 323A or Article 323B of the Constitution, will be subject to the High Court’s writ jurisdiction under Articles 226/227 of the Constitution, before a Division Bench of the High Court within whose territorial jurisdiction the particular Tribunal falls. 1030 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 105. The perusal of paragraph 92 of the of the Constitution Bench would further reveal that the function of the Tribunals is only supplementary and all such decisions of the Tribunals would be subject to scrutiny before the Division Bench of respective High Courts. The Constitution Bench holds that all such Tribunals will continue to act as the only Courts of first instance in respect of areas of law for which they have been constituted. It has been held that it will not be open for a litigant to directly approach the High Courts even in cases where the question of vires of statutory legislations (except as mentioned where the legislations which creates the particular legislation) is challenged by availing the jurisdiction of the Tribunal concerned. 106. It could thus clearly be seen that it is a settled position of law that the High Courts exercise the power of judicial review over all the Tribunals which are situated within its jurisdiction. 107. We may gainfully refer to the observations of this Court in the case of Priya Gupta and Another v. Additional Secretary, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and Others31, wherein this Court has succinctly culled down the position as under : - “12. The government departments are no exception to the consequences of wilful disobedience of the s of the Court. Violation of the s of the Court would be its disobedience and would invite action in accordance with law. The s passed by this Court are the law of the land in terms of Article 141 of the Constitution of India. No Court or Tribunal and for that matter any other authority can ignore the law stated by this Court. Such obedience would also be conducive to their smooth working, otherwise there would be confusion in the administration of law and the respect for law would irretrievably suffer. There can be no hesitation in holding that the law declared by the higher court in the State is binding on authorities and tribunals under its superintendence and they cannot ignore it. This Court also expressed the view that it had become necessary to reiterate that disrespect to the constitutional ethos and breach of discipline have a grave impact on the 31 [2012] 12 SCR 818 : (2013) 11 SCC 404 : 2012 INSC 601 [2024] 1 S.C.R.