14. In this background, we will examine the legality of the summoning under Section 319 Cr.P.C. on its own footing. Section 319 of the Cr.P.C. is as follows: “319. Power to proceed against other persons appearing to be guilty of offence (1) Where, in the course of any inquiry into, or trial of, an offence, it appears from the evidence that any person not being the accused has committed any offence for which such person could be tried together with the accused, the Court may proceed against such person for the offence which he appears to have committed. (2) …. (3) …. (4) ….” 15. Having taken note of the provision, we will note the principles laid down by a Constitution Bench of this Court in Hardeep Singh v. State of Punjab, (2014) 3 SCC 92, for criminal courts to follow while exercising power under Section 319 Cr.P.C. : “94. In Pyare Lal Bhargava v. State of Rajasthan, AIR 1963 SC 1094, a four-Judge Bench of this Court was concerned with the meaning of the word “appear”. The Court held that the appropriate meaning of the word “appears” is “seems”. It imports a lesser degree of probability than proof. In Ram Singh v. Ram Niwas, (2009) 14 SCC 25, a two-Judge Bench of this Court was again required to examine the importance of the word “appear” as appearing 1 Gurmail Singh v. State of UP, (2022) 10 SCC 684 [2024] 6 S.C.R. 15 Shankar v. The State of Uttar Pradesh & Ors. in the section. The Court held that for the fulfilment of the condition that it appears to the court that a person had committed an offence, the court must satisfy itself about the existence of an exceptional circumstance enabling it to exercise an extraordinary jurisdiction. What is, therefore, necessary for the court is to arrive at a satisfaction that the evidence adduced on behalf of the prosecution, if unrebutted, may lead to conviction of the persons sought to be added as the accused in the case. 95. At the time of taking cognizance, the court has to see whether a prima facie case is made out to proceed against the accused. Under Section 319 CrPC, though the test of prima facie case is the same, the degree of satisfaction that is required is much stricter… 105. Power under Section 319 CrPC is a discretionary and an extraordinary power. It is to be exercised sparingly and only in those cases where the circumstances of the case so warrant. It is not to be exercised because the Magistrate or the Sessions Judge is of the opinion that some other person may also be guilty of committing that offence. Only where strong and cogent evidence occurs against a person from the evidence led before the court that such power should be exercised and not in a casual and cavalier manner. 106. Thus, we hold that though only a prima facie case is to be established from the evidence led before the court, not necessarily tested on the anvil of cross-examination, it requires much stronger evidence than mere probability of his complicity.