As we have said already, the Muslim minority could not establish a university whose degrees were bound to be recognised by Government as provided by Section 6 of 1920 Act : that one circumstance along with the fact that without the 1920 Act the University in the form that it had, could not come into existence shows clearly that the Aligarh University when it came into existence in 1920 was established by the Central Legislature by the 1920 Act. It may be that the 1920 Act was passed as a result of the efforts of the Muslim minority. But that does not mean that the Aligarh University when it came into being under the 1920 Act was established by the Muslim minority.” 110. In Azeez Basha (supra), this Court observed that the term ‘establish’ means ‘to bring into existence’ and not any of the other dictionary meanings that is, to ratify, confirm, settle, found, or create. Adopting a formalistic interpretation, the Bench held that AMU was not established by the Muslim minority since it was brought ‘into existence’ by the Central Legislature. In Mother Provincial (supra), another Constitution Bench which was decided before Azeez Basha (supra) interpreted the word ‘establish’ to mean to found an institution, which offers a broader interpretation.97 In our view, it is inconsequential 97 8. […] Establishment here means the bringing of an institution and it must be by a minority community. It matters not if a single philanthropic individual with his own means, founds the institution or the community at large contributes the funds.” (emphasis supplied) [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1739 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. whether the word means ‘to bring into existence’ or ‘to found’. We have held above that the enactment of a legislation to incorporate a university would not repudiate the minority character. The Court must pierce the veil of the statute to identify if the institution intended to retain its minority character even upon incorporation. 111. The respondents further submitted that the long title and the preamble of the enactment must be used to determine if the minority established the institution. A comparison was drawn between the preamble of the AMU Act and statutes by which other universities were incorporated. For example, the preamble of the Annamalai University Act 1928 stipulates that the founder of the college, Shri Annamalai Chettiyar, handed over the college with the property and a fund of twenty thousand rupees to the local Government for the establishment of a University. The preamble also recognises that he and his heirs would be entitled to certain powers and privileges in the University. However, in contrast, the preamble of the AMU Act 1920 stated that it is an enactment to ‘establish’ and ‘incorporate’ a University. 112. We do not agree with this submission. It cannot be argued that a university was established by Parliament merely because the long title and preamble of the statute incorporating the university states that it is an Act to establish and incorporate.