The first respondent should have, thus, approached the NCLT as mandated by Rule 30A instead of invoking the inherent powers of the NCLAT under Rule 11; (ii) NCLAT should not exercise its discretionary power under Rule 11 of the NCLAT Rules because the directors of the Corporate Debtor and its allied entities are fugitives, living abroad; have defaulted on government dues; Enforcement Directorate proceedings are pending, look out notices have been issued; and there has been a significant drop in the valuation of the Corporate Debtor; and (iii) the interests of all creditors must be considered while accepting a settlement, including the appellant who has a substantial interest with regard to the Corporate Debtor. 21. On 2 August 2024, the NCLAT delivered the Impugned Judgement. After recording the factual background and submissions of the parties before it, the NCLAT outlined its reasoning and analysis in paras 44 to 50 of the Impugned Judgement. The NCLAT held the affidavit and undertaking filed by Riju Raveendran made it clear that the money was generated by Riju Raveendran from his own sources; income tax had been paid on the sales of shares from which the amount was generated; and there was no violation of the dated 18 March 2024 passed by the Delaware Court either directly or indirectly. Therefore, NCLAT held that in the absence of any evidence to the contrary, there was no reason to believe that the money that was being offered by Riju Raveendran was linked to the money disbursed to Byju’s Alpha Inc. under the Credit Agreement or from the coffers of the Corporate Debtor. 22. Further, it was held that the law regarding the settlement of disputes between the parties is in the process of evolution, and this Court has approved the invocation of Rule 11 of the NCLAT Rules to allow such settlements. Reliance was placed on the decisions of this Court in Abhishek Singh vs Huhtamaki PPL Limited20 and 20 [2023] 4 SCR 596 : 2023 SCC Online SC 349 [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1819 GLAS Trust Company LLC v. BYJU Raveendran & Ors. Kamal K. Singh v. Dinesh Gupta,21 in addition to decisions of the NCLAT on the point. Further, it was held that the NCLT had granted the appellant the liberty to revive its Section 7 petition, in case of any adverse developments in the appellate proceedings in the Section 9 petition and thus, the right of the applicant to enforce its claims was well protected. 23. Accordingly, the settlement between the parties was approved and the of the NCLT admitting the Section 9 petition was set aside. The NCLAT directed that in case of a breach of the undertaking and affidavit, the Section 9 would automatically be revived. The operative directions are extracted below: “51. Thus, in view of the aforesaid facts and circumstances, in view of the undertaking given and affidavit filed, the settlement between the parties is hereby approved and as a result thereof, the present appeal succeeds and the impugned is set aside, however, with a caveat that in case there is a breach in the undertaking given and the affidavit filed, the dated 16.07.2024 passed against the present Appellant, shall automatically revive.” vi.