(v) raise on the security of the property such loans as may be necessary; (vi) incur out of the property any expenditure including the payment of any taxes, duties, cesses and rates to Government or to any local authority and 874 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of any wages, salaries, pensions, provident fund contributions to, or in respect of, any employee of the enemy and the repayment of any debts due by the enemy to persons other than enemies; (vii) transfer by way of sale, mortgage or lease or otherwise dispose of any of the properties; (viii) invest any moneys held by him on behalf of enemies for the purchase of Treasury Bills or such other Government securities as may be approved by the Central Government for the purpose; (ix) make payments to the enemy and his dependents; (x) make payments on behalf of the enemy to persons other than those who are enemies, of dues outstanding on the 25th October, 1962 or on the 3rd December, 1971; and (xi) make such other payments out of the funds of the enemy as may be directed by the Central Government.” 10.9 Section 8A deals with sale of property by Custodian which has been inserted with retrospective effect from 07.01.2016 while Section 10A deals with power to issue certificate of sale. The same are extracted as under: “8A. Sale of property by Custodian.—(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in any , decree or of any court, tribunal or other authority or any law for the time being in force, the Custodian may, within such time as may be specified by the Central Government in this behalf, dispose of whether by sale or otherwise, as the case may be, with prior approval of the Central Government, by general or special , enemy properties vested in him immediately before the date of commencement of the Enemy Property (Amendment and Validation) Act, 2017 in accordance with the provisions of this Act, as amended by the Enemy Property (Amendment and Validation) Act, 2017. [2024] 2 S.C.R. 875 Lucknow Nagar Nigam & Others v. Kohli Brothers Colour Lab. Pvt. Ltd. & Others (2) The Custodian may, for the purpose of disposal of enemy property under sub-section (1), make requisition of the services of any police officer to assist him and it shall be the duty of such officer to comply with such requisition. (3) The Custodian shall, on disposal of enemy property under sub-section (1) immediately deposit the sale proceeds into the Consolidated Fund of India and intimate details thereof to the Central Government. (4) The Custodian shall send a report to the Central Government at such intervals, as it may specify, for the enemy properties disposed of under sub-section (1), containing such details, (including the price for which such property has been sold and the particulars of the buyer to whom the properties have been sold or disposed of and the details of the proceeds of sale or disposal deposited into the Consolidated Fund of India) as it may specify.