There was no direction or stay on the issuance of sale certificate. The passing of the interim stay in the above writ petition was not on account of the respondents so as to assign any default on their part in depositing the balance sale consideration within the time stipulated. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1377 IDBI Bank Ltd. v. Ramswaroop Daliya and Ors. 12. The communication dated 24.12.2019, by which the appellant-Bank took a decision to cancel the auction sale and to return the amount deposited by the respondents, is completely silent as regards the default, if any, committed by the respondents in depositing the balance auction amount as per the mandate of Rule 9(4) of the Rules. The said plea was taken by the appellant-Bank for the first time through the counter affidavit filed in the writ petition. It is well recognized that the validity of an can only be adjudged on the basis of the reasoning contained in the and the said reasoning cannot be supplemented in any manner much less by means of a counter affidavit or a supplementary affidavit when the parties have entered into a litigation. In Mohinder Singh Gill & Anr. v. Chief Election Commissioner and Ors.4 it has been clearly laid down that the parties are not permitted to raise new pleas not contained in the impugned while assailing the correctness or the validity of such an . In view of the law so laid down, the appellant-Bank was certainly not entitled to raise the plea of default under Rule 9(4) of the Rules through the counter affidavit. 13. Notwithstanding the above, the provisions of sub-Rules (4) and (5) of Rule 9 of the Rules, if read together in conjunction,would reveal that it is only for the default in payment of the balance auction amount within the period mentioned that the property could be resold and that the period of 15 days stipulated therein for the deposit of the balance sale amount may be extended, as may be agreed upon in writing. It means that first there has to be a default on part of the auction purchaser to invite cancellation of the auction and second, that the period of deposit stipulated therein is not absolute rather extendable with the agreement of the parties. 14. Sub-Rules (4) and (5) of Rule 9 of the Rules are extracted below: “(4) The balance amount of purchase price payable shall be paid by the purchaser to the authorized officer on or before the fifteenth day of confirmation of sale of the immovable property or such extended period [as may be agreed upon in writing between the purchaser and the secured creditor, in any case not exceeding three months]. 4 [1978] 2 SCR 272 : (1978) 1 SCC 405 1378 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (5) In default of payment within the period mentioned in sub-rule (4), the deposit shall be forfeited [to the secured creditor] and the property shall be resold and the defaulting purchaser shall forfeit all claim to the property or to any part of the sum for which it may be subsequently sold.” 15.