It would be prejudicial to the appellant to rely on only a part of her testimony and exclude the rest. If her testimony is ignored in toto, there is no other evidence to establish the key circumstance of appellant’s presence at the spot of crime. 6.1 That aluminium phosphide is rather impossible to administer in a deceitful manner owing to its pungent smell and odour. [2024] 1 S.C.R. 253 DARSHAN SINGH v. STATE OF PUNJAB No injury marks have been found on the deceased, which further establishes that there could not have been any forceful administration of the poison. Therefore, it is submitted that it is nothing but a case of suicide, the driving force for which, was the confrontation with Melo Kaur. It is the appellants’ case that Amrik Kaur was having an illicit affair with Melo Kaur’s husband, Gurmel Singh PW4, and embarrassed with her sister finding out, she self-administered the poisonous substance and committed suicide. Counsel has submitted s to support the proposition that aluminium phosphide has a pungent smell similar to garlic. 6.2 Reliance has been placed on Jaipal V. State of Haryana – (2003) 1 SCC 169 wherein the Apex Court discussed the nature of aluminium phosphide. The relevant paragraphs have been extracted below for reference: “16. According to Modi, symptoms and signs of poisoning by aluminium phosphide are similar to poisoning by zinc phosphide (p. 197, ibid.). The chief symptoms after the administration of zinc phosphide are a vacant look, frequent vomiting with retching, tremors and drowsiness followed by respiratory distress at death. Zinc phosphide acts as a slow poison and is decomposed by hydrochloric acid in the stomach with the liberation of phosphine which acts as a respiratory poison. Being a very fine powder zinc phosphide adheres firmly to the crypts in the mucous membrane of the stomach, and a very small quantity only in the stomach even after vomiting is sufficient to cause death by slow absorption. 17. Phosphine released from zinc phosphide (rat poison) and from aluminium phosphide, is mainly used as a fumigant to control insects and rodents in foodgrains and fields. Liberated from the metal phosphides by the action of water or acids, gaseous phosphine exerts more potent pesticidal action, for it penetrates to all areas otherwise inaccessible for pesticide application. Pathological findings from phosphine inhalation are 254 [2024] 1 S.C.R. DIGITAL SUPREME COURT REPORTS pulmonary hyperaemia and oedema. It causes both fatty degeneration and necrosis of liver (p. 174, ibid.). 18. Our attention was invited, as was done in the High Court and the trial court, to a paper entitled “Toxicology — Acute Aluminium Phosphide Poisoning in Northern India” written by Dr Mitra Basu and Prof. S.B. Siwach, Head, Department of Medicine, Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences, Rohtak and published in Current Medical Journal, Vol. I, No. 5, July 1995. The authenticity of this article has not been doubted by the High Court nor questioned either in the High Court or in this Court. The learned authors have noticed the aluminium phosphide having emerged as a major health problem in northern India when these cases first started coming in 1984 and hardly any literature being available earlier on this malady.