During the discussion, the Court assessed various factors and evidence to ascertain the institution’s status as a minority establishment, highlighting the significance of the funding source during its inception. The relevant paragraphs are quoted as under : “8. It was the case of the State and the parties intervening in the writ petition before the High Court that the school was established by the Church Missionary Society, London, which they claimed was a Corporation with an alien domicile and “such a society was not a minority based on religion or language” within the meaning of Article 30 of the Constitution. On behalf of the appellants in the appeal and the petitioners in the two writ petitions filed in this Court, it is claimed that the School was started in 1854 by the local Christian residents of Bhagalpur. They concede that the Church Missionary Society of London did extend financial aid in the establishment of the School, but they contend that on that account, the School did not cease 1984 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports to be an educational institution established by a religious minority in India. 9. There is on the record important evidence about establishment in 1854 of the Lower Primary School at Bhagalpur. It is unfortunate that sufficient attention was not directed to that part of the evidence in the High Court. The “Record Book” of the Church Missionary Association at Bhagalpur which is Annexure ‘D’ to Writ Petition No. 430 of 1968 furnishes evidence of vital importance having a bearing on the establishment of the School. It contains copies of letters written from Bhagalpur and minutes of meetings held and the resolutions passed by the Local Council of Bhagalpur. On June 1, 1948, Rev. Vaux informed the Calcutta Corresponding Committee of the Church Missionary Society by a letter that if the Calcutta Society were to establish a School at Champanagar, “local assistance shall not be wanting to the extent of 1000 or 1200 rupees a year, besides providing a school house and residence for the master”, and that “At first, for breaking up the fallow ground and setting the school a going the presence of a Missionary of tact and experience may be necessary”. On June 26, 1848, Rev. Vaux by another letter informed the Calcutta Corresponding Committee that a special service was held in the Church on June 22, 1848 and thereafter on Friday, June 23, 1848, a meeting was held and contributions were invited from persons present including Indian residents, that monthly subscriptions of Rs 202 for the “salary of masters” and other expenses were promised, and that an amount of Rs 1647 was donated for building the school and residence for the master; that the general impression made was so favourable to the cause that he felt justified in assuring the Calcutta Committee that the local Committee were in a position to guarantee certain requisites for making a commencement such as payment of the salary of the School Master and Mistress and the building of a house for their accommodation which may afterwards be enlarged so as to form a suitable residence for a Mission.