363, on the criterion of ‘Seniority-cum-Merit’ observed that any rule that mandates selection based on the principle of ‘Seniority-cum-Merit’, such rule mandates that the promotions must be determined through a selection process that evaluates “seniority, subject to the fitness of the candidate, to discharge the duties of the post from among persons eligible for promotion”. In consequence, where promotion is based on the ‘Seniority-cum-Merit’ principle, the candidate cannot claim promotion as a matter of right on the grounds 1118 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of his seniority alone. Further, if the officer fails to discharge his duties of the higher post, he may be passed over by a junior officer. 84. In Jagathigowda, C.N. & Ors. v. Chairman, Cauvery Gramina Bank & Ors, reported in (1996) 9 SCC 677, while moving a step ahead, it was held that where promotion is based on the principle of ‘Seniority- cum-Merit’, it would still be open for the selection committee to take into consideration the performance appraisal forms to first ascertain the suitability of the candidates being considered for promotion. The relevant observations read as under: - “8. [...] It is settled proposition of law that even while making promotions on the basis of seniority-cum-merit the totality of the service record of the officer concerned has to be taken into consideration. The performance appraisal forms are maintained primarily for the purpose that the same are taken into consideration when the person concerned is considered for promotion to the higher rank. The High Court, with respect, was not justified in holding that the performance appraisal could not be taken into consideration by the Director’s Committee while considering the officers for promotion to the higher rank.” (Emphasis supplied) 85. This Court in Rajendra Kumar Srivastava & Ors. v. Samyut Kshetriya Gramin Bank & Ors. reported in (2010) 1 SCC 335 held that where promotion is on the basis of ‘Seniority-cum-Merit’, the standard method is to first ascertain the candidates who possess the minimum required merit and thereafter making promotions strictly on the basis of seniority from among those who are found to possess the minimum necessary merit. It further held that the minimum requisite merit may be ascertained from either one or a combination of multiple processes of assessment. The relevant observations read as under: - “11. It is also well settled that the principle of seniority- cum-merit, for promotion, is different from the principle of “seniority” and the principle of “merit-cum-seniority”. Where promotion is on the basis of seniority alone, merit will not play any part at all. But where promotion is on the principle of seniority-cum-merit, promotion is not automatic with reference to seniority alone. Merit will also play a [2024] 5 S.C.R. 1119 Ravikumar Dhansukhlal Maheta & Anr. v. High Court of Gujarat & Ors. significant role. The standard method of seniority-cum- merit is to subject all the eligible candidates in the feeder grade (possessing the prescribed educational qualification and period of service) to a process of assessment of a specified minimum necessary merit and then promote the candidates who are found to possess the minimum necessary merit strictly in the of seniority.