[2024] 12 S.C.R. 1445 : 2024 INSC 1025 Shri Mukund Bhavan Trust and Ors. v. Shrimant Chhatrapati Udayan Raje Pratapsinh Maharaj Bhonsle and Another (Civil Appeal No. 14807 of 2024) 20 December 2024 [J.B. Pardiwala and R. Mahadevan,* JJ.] Issue for Consideration Whether the High Court erred in affirming the of the trial Court dismissing the application filed by the appellants under VII Rule 11(d), Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 for rejection of plaint being barred by limitation. Headnotes† Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 – VII Rule 11(d) – Rejection of plaint – Limitation Act, 1963 – Article 58-60, 65 – Suit filed by the Respondent No.1-Plaintiff, if was barred by limitation and ought to have been rejected at the threshold: Held: Yes – The right to sue first accrued to the predecessors of the plaintiff when the properties were brought for sale by the court – Court auction was held in 1938 and sale deed was registered in 1952 in favour of the Defendant No.1-appellant in respect of the suit properties – However, the suit was filed only in the year 2008, though the plaintiff and his predecessors were aware of the existence of the said registered sale deed of the suit properties – Predecessors of the plaintiff never challenged the sale of property to the Defendant No.1 by court auction and the subsequent registration of the deeds, despite constructive notice, as they acceded to the title of the appellant, which cannot now be questioned by the plaintiff after such long time – Title claim of the plaintiff was thus, barred by limitation and therefore, the claim for possession was also barred and consequently, the relief of recovery of possession was also hopelessly barred by limitation – Plaintiff did not produce any documentary evidence to show that he is entitled for the relief of declaration of ownership of the suit properties except by relying on the government resolutions which *Author 1446 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports lost its force in view of the decree of the Civil Court and subsequent compromise decrees – The alleged cause of action is a creation of fiction – Plaintiff was a stranger to the suit properties and the Defendants were the owners of the suit properties – The plea of fraud was raised only to overcome the period of limitation – Suit was hopelessly barred by limitation – Trial Court erroneously dismissed the application filed by the appellants u/Or.VII, r.11(d) – High Court erred in affirming the same – Though, limitation is a mixed question of fact and law and the question of rejecting the plaint thereon has to be decided after weighing the evidence on record however, in cases like the present one, where it is glaring from the plaint averments that the suit was hopelessly barred by limitation, the Courts should drive the parties back to the trial Court – s passed by Courts below set aside – Application filed by the appellants u/Or.VII, r.1(d) of CPC allowed, plaint rejected.