However, by omission, no protection was granted to those entering Assam after 25.03.1971, thereby rendering their presence in India illegal and liable for deportation under other existing legislation. Expressing their anxiety over the problems that have been posed by the influx of immigration from Bangladesh into Assam, which the Petitioners contend have been compounded and legitimized by Section 6A, the present action has been brought before this Court. 2. Citizenship and its penumbral dimension are at the core of the present challenge. Thus, before analyzing the challenges regarding the constitutionality and the scheme of citizenship under the Constitution of India and the Citizenship Act, 1955, (Citizenship Act) we shall endeavour to explore the jurisprudential scheme and framework of citizenship globally as well as in India. A. BACKGROUND Meaning of citizenship 3. Jurisprudentially, the term ‘citizenship’ is an abstract concept which has carried various interpretations that have evolved over time.1 In ancient Greek society, philosophers like Aristotle distinguished citizens from other members of society – such as residents, children, slaves, and the elderly. According to Aristotle, citizens were individuals who held judicial or legislative authority within a state.2 Hence, society was divided into citizens and mere subjects, where being a citizen was a matter of privilege. Called the ‘republican model’, this was also seconded by other philosophers such as Tacitus, Cicero, Machiavelli, 1 Citizenship, Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy, https://plato.stanford.edu/entries/citizenship/. 2 Aristotle, Politics, Book III, Benjamin Jowett (trans. ), Batoche Books, 1999, 53. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1003 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 Harrington and Rousseau.3 With the growth of the Roman empire, the notion of ‘citizen’ was broadened to encompass individuals in conquered territories. This eventually transformed the meaning of citizenship, where instead of granting access to political office, the term ‘citizen’ meant acquiring legal status of being part of a community and receiving protection under law. 4. Over time, the term citizenship thus moved from the ‘republican model’ to a ‘liberal model’, which diluted the status of citizenship from a political privilege to a more egalitarian right based upon the similarity of legal status shared by a common populace.4 The meaning of citizenship in India 5. In the domestic context, citizenship was ascertained by a 9-Judge Bench of this Court in State Trading Corpn. of India Ltd. v. CTO,5 as the ‘right to have rights’.6 It was held that citizenship is the pre-requisite that leads to gaining legal status and other socio-political rights in a country. However, although there is broad consensus on the fundamental concept of citizenship,7 the specific rights and privileges associated with citizenship vary from one jurisdiction to another. Additionally, countries differ in the mechanisms and criteria for acquiring citizenship. These variations reflect the unique historical, cultural, and legal contexts of each nation. 6. In India, various rights are exclusively conferred upon citizens. These include the right to vote, the right to move freely, the right to form unions, the right to hold public office, the freedom of speech and expression, equality in public employment, etc.