Insofar as sub-sections (2) and (3) are concerned, there was no change and as such, for being a person to be eligible for appointment as a Judge of a Special Court it was necessary that he occupied the office of a Sessions Judge or an Additional Sessions Judge prior to his appointment. 23. Another amendment to Section 435 of the Companies Act, 2013 was effected by the Companies (Amendment) Act, 2017 (i.e. Act No. 1 of 2018), with effect from 7th May, 2018. Vide the said amendment, two classes of Special Courts were constituted. Firstly, a Special Court presided by a single judge holding office as Session Judge or Additional Session Judge, in case of offences punishable with imprisonment of two years or more under the Companies Act, 2013; and the second being presided by a Metropolitan Magistrate or a Judicial Magistrate of the First Class in the case of other offences, i.e., offences punishable with imprisonment of less than two years. 24. It is thus clear that Section 435 of the Companies Act, 2013 as it originally existed, provided for only one class of Special Courts i.e. a person holding office of a Sessions Judge or an Additional Sessions Judge and all offences under the Companies Act, 2013 were required to be tried by such Special Courts. The 2015 Amendment to Section 435 also provided for only one class of Special Courts i.e. a person [2024] 5 S.C.R. 13 Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India v. Satyanarayan Bankatlal Malu & Ors. holding the rank of a Sessions Judge or an Additional Sessions Judge. The change that was brought out was that, only offences punishable under the Companies Act, 2013 with imprisonment of two years or more were to be tried by the Special Courts, whereas all other offences i.e. offences punishable with imprisonment of less than two years were to be tried by the jurisdictional Metropolitan Magistrate or the Judicial Magistrate of the First Class. By the 2018 Amendment, two classes of Special Courts were established. The first class of Special Courts comprised of an officer holding the office as Sessions Judge or Additional Sessions Judge, whereas the second class of Special Courts comprised of Metropolitan Magistrate or a Judicial Magistrate of the First Class. The offences punishable under the Companies Act with imprisonment of two years or more were required to be tried by a Special Court comprising of Sessions Judge or Additional Sessions Judge, whereas all other offences i.e. the offences punishable with imprisonment of less than two years were to be tried by a Special Court comprising of Metropolitan Magistrate or the Judicial Magistrate of the First Class. 25. The question that requires to be considered is, as to whether the Special Court under the Code would be as provided under Section 435 of the Companies Act as it existed at the time when the Code came into effect, or it would be as provided under Section 435 of the Companies Act after the 2018 Amendment.