Indeed the right given to a Judge is so wide that he may, ask any question he pleases, in any form, at any time, of any witness, or of the parties about any fact, relevant or irrelevant. Section 172(2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure enables the court to send for the police-diaries in a case and use them to aid it in the trial. The record of the proceedings of the Committing Magistrate may also be perused by the Sessions Judge to further aid him in the trial. [Sessions Judge, Nellore v. Intha Ramana Reddy ILR 1972 AP 683 : 1972 Cri LJ 1485] 3. With such wide powers, the court must actively participate in the trial to elicit the truth and to protect the weak and the innocent. It must, of course, not assume the role of a prosecutor in putting questions. The functions of the counsel, particularly those of the Public Prosecutor, are not to be usurped by the judge, by descending into the arena, as it were. Any questions put by the judge must be so as not to frighten, coerce, confuse or intimidate the witnesses. The danger inherent in a judge adopting a much too stern an attitude towards witnesses has been explained by Lord Justice Birkett: People accustomed to the procedure of the court are likely to be overawed or frightened, or confused, or distressed when under the ordeal of prolonged questioning from the presiding judge. Moreover, when the questioning takes on a sarcastic or ironic tone as it is apt to do, or when it takes on a hostile note as is sometimes almost inevitable, the danger is not only that witnesses will be unable to present the evidence as they may wish, but the parties may begin to think, quite wrongly it may be, that the judge is not 808 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports holding the scales of justice quite eventually. [ Extracted by Lord Denning in supra f.n. 2] In Jones v. National Coal Board [Jones v. National Coal Board, (1957) 2 All ER 155 : (1957) 2 WLR 760] Lord Justice Denning observed: The Judge’s part in all this is to hearken to the evidence, only himself asking questions of witnesses when it is necessary to clear up any point that has been overlooked or left obscure; to see that the advocates behave themselves seemly and keep to the rules laid down by law; to exclude irrelevancies and discourage repetition; to make sure by wise intervention that he follows the points that the advocates are making and can assess their worth; and at the end to make up his mind where the truth lies. If he goes beyond this, he drops the mantle of the Judge and assumes the role of an advocate; and the change does not become him well. We may go further than Lord Denning and say that it is the duty of a judge to discover the truth and for that purpose he may “ask any question, in any form, at any time, of any witness, or of the parties, about any fact, relevant or irrelevant” (Section 165 Evidence Act).