We are, thus, inclined to the view that the appellant had notice aliunde of the dated 05th March, 2009. Proceeding on the premise that the must have been served immediately after the same was passed by the Single Judge and in the light of rule 21 of the Writ Rules, the appellant had 2 (two) months’ time from receipt of the dated 05th March, 2009, i.e., say till the end of May, 2009 to implement the direction. The appellant failed to effect mutation, as directed, within the aforesaid time-frame and was, thus, in breach of the said dated 05th March, 2009, say from June, 2009. There does not appear to be any explanation proffered in the contempt petition worthy of consideration as to why the contempt petition was delayed and not presented within the period of a year of commission of the breach when it first occurred, i.e., at least by the end of May, 2010. 63. The learned Single Judge deciding the contempt petition, vide dated 04th October, 2017, was impressed by the arguments advanced by the first respondent and while holding that there has been a continuing wrong and also that the appellant is in contempt, allowed the contempt petition. 64. The Division Bench (review) held in favour of the first respondent observing that the inaction of the Government officials was a continuing wrong since they did not outrightly refuse to implement the , rather, till as late as 2017, assured that they would implement it but failed to do so. Furthermore, what weighed with the High Court was the alleged misrepresentation with respect to the title of the subject land; such misrepresentation being in the nature of fraud, would entitle the High Court to recall the primary on merits. The State 1114 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports authorities were held to have misrepresented the title of the suit land inasmuch as they took mutually contradictory stands, i.e., on the one hand it was argued that the subject land was escheated land, and on the other, it was argued, on the strength of revenue entries, that the subject land always belonged to the State. The High Court then went on to examine and interpret documents produced by the respondents for the first time and accorded title in favour of the respondents. 65. For reasons more than one, the impugned allowing the contempt petition is indefensible. 66. First, having read the impugned , we are quite convinced that submissions that were advanced before the Division Bench (review) of the dated 05th March, 2009 being in the process of implementation had the undesirable effect of shifting the focus of the High Court from adjudging the maintainability of the contempt petition as on date the same was presented, i.e., 04th October, 2014, to the unacceptable fact of actual non-compliance of the of 05th March, 2009 despite indication of compliance. No doubt, compliance of an of the court has to be insisted upon but within the four corners of the contempt petition.