Each of the categories were governed by separate set of rules and had independent cadres. The recruitment of the scientists was at the entry level of ₹8,000-13,500 and made on All India basis through a written competitive examination followed by interview whereas in technical service there were 3 categories i.e. grades I, II and III. The recruitment in these categories was made at the institute level. The appellants had adopted UGC pay scales for scientists in ARS with effect from 01.01.1986 and award of advance increments to the scientists in ARS for having Ph.D. qualification during service was part and parcel of the pay package applicable to the scientists. As respondents are part of the technical service, the pay scales as recommended by the Government of India for the Central Government employees were adopted. There was no additional incentive to the respondents for Ph.D. qualification, if obtained during service career. 2.5 Aggrieved against the aforesaid , the respondents filed OA No. 2939/2002 before the Tribunal. The same was allowed vide dated 18.07.2003. Aggrieved against the same the appellants preferred Writ Petitions before the High Court, which were dismissed. The said is under challenge in the present appeals. 3. Learned Counsel for the appellants submitted that the Tribunal, while allowing the application filed by the respondents had travelled beyond the jurisdiction vested in it. It was wrongly opined that both categories of employees, namely the scientists and technical personnel, are working with the appellant for the same object, hence, [2024] 8 S.C.R. 511 Indian Council of Agricultural Research Through the Director General and Anr. v. Rajinder Singh and Ors. there should not be any distinction. If the scientist were granted two advance increments on acquiring Ph.D. qualification during service, the respondents should not have been discriminated. The Tribunal could not have ventured into this aspect of the matter as the competent authority, in its wisdom, had granted the benefit of two advance increments to the category of employees, who deserved it. Merely because other sets of employees also obtained the same qualification, they will not be eligible to get those benefits. 3.1 He further submitted that extension of ARS Study Leave Regulations, 1991 to the technical personnel had nothing to do with grant of advance increments. It was merely to encourage them to improve their qualifications with no promise of any financial benefit. The writ petition was dismissed by a cryptic . The High Court upheld the of the Tribunal on wrong premise by invoking Article 14, trying to equate the scientist and technical staff, merely because they are working with the appellants. They are governed by different sets of rules and belong to different cadres. 3.2 The prayer in the present appeal is to set aside the of the Tribunal as well as the High Court and rejection of the application filed by the respondents before the Tribunal. 4. On the other hand, learned Senior Counsel appearing for the respondents relied upon Entry 66 in List I to the 7th Schedule attached to the Constitution of India which deals with determination of standards in institutions for higher education or research and scientific and technical institutions.