We agree with the view taken by the Allahabad High Court. Filing of Form No. 5 is only a method prescribed, whereby “notice” of increase in share capital or of members of a company has to be sent to the Registrar, within 30 days of passing of such resolution. The Registrar then has to record such increase in share capital or members, and carry out the necessary alterations in the articles. Stamp Duty is affixed on Form No. 5 as a matter of practical convenience because a company itself cannot carry out the alterations and record the increase in share capital in its Articles of Association. It is only the articles which are an instrument within the meaning of Section 2(l) of the Stamp Act and accordingly have been mentioned in Article 10 of Schedule-I of the Stamp Act. 10. Counsel for the appellants, however, contends that increase in the share capital of the respondent from Rs. 600 crores to Rs.1,200 crores, materially alters the character of the instrument, i.e., Articles of Association. As such, it requires a fresh stamp according to its altered character and needs to be charged as a separate instrument. [2024] 4 S.C.R. 351 State of Maharashtra & Anr. v. National Organic Chemical Industries Ltd. On the other hand, learned senior counsel for the respondent refers to Section 31(2) of the Companies Act, which provides that any alteration of the articles shall, subject to the provisions of this Act, be valid as if it were originally in the articles. She further submits that whether an instrument has been materially altered or not is a question of fact and the appellants have neither taken this plea while rejecting the request for the refund, nor before the High Court. 11. It is a settled position of law that in case of conflict between two laws, the general law must give way to the special law. A conjoined reading of the Stamp Act and the Companies Act would show that while the former governs the payment of stamp duty for all manner of instruments, the latter deals with all aspects relating to companies and other similar associations. In the case at hand, we are concerned with an instrument which is chargeable to Stamp Duty and finds its origin in the Companies Act. The various provisions of the Companies Act provide the purpose and scope of the instrument. Thus, it has to be said that the Companies Act is the special law and the Stamp Act is the general law with regards to Articles of Association, and the special will override the general. 12. A Division Bench of the High Court of Madras in M. Swaminathan v. Chairman and Managing Director, 1987 SCC OnLine Mad 438 discussed Section 31(2) of the Companies Act and made the following observations: “The section cannot be understood to mean that any alteration made in the Articles of Association would have retrospective effect as if it was there from the inception of the Articles of Association.