The relevant passage in Ramesh Kumar (supra) is extracted below: “15. Thus, the law on the issue can be summarised to the effect that in case the statutory rules prescribe a particular mode of selection, it has to be given strict adherence accordingly. In case, no procedure is prescribed by the rules and there is no other impediment in law, the competent authority while laying down the norms for selection may prescribe for the tests and further specify the minimum benchmarks for written test as well as for viva voce.” 47. The above paragraph explicitly provides that the Courts can fix minimum qualifying marks for viva voce. In the present cases, the Rules provided for the qualifying marks and as such the cited s can be of no assistance for the writ petitioners. 48. The implications of the split in Salam Samarjeet Singh vs. High Court of Manipur at Imphal22 will next bear consideration. Justice Banumathi in her noticed that All India Judges (2002) is sub silentio on the aspect of minimum cut off marks for the viva-voce test. In his dissenting , Justice Shiva Kirti Singh had not expressed any disagreement on the said sub silentio observation but left it open for determination in a future case. There again, the dissent of Justice Singh was based on the fact that minimum cut off was not prescribed in the recruitment Rules and were brought in midway through the recruitment process, just prior to the stage of interview, by resolution of the Court. Here however the prescription of minimum cut-off in the recruitment process was notified for information 22 [2016] 9 SCR 771 : (2016) 10 SCC 484 [2024] 6 S.C.R. 567 Abhimeet Sinha & Ors. v. High Court of Judicature at Patna & Ors. of the candidates well before the commencement of the selection process under the Patna High Court and also under the Gujarat High Court and this distinguishing feature will have to be borne in mind. 49. The Justice Shetty Commission was constituted to bring about uniformity in service conditions of judicial officers. The recommendations made by the Commission are in the nature of guidelines and those will have to be seen in the context of the Rules governing recruitment of judicial officers. By virtue of the decision in All India Judges (2002), it cannot be said that adequate elbow room was not available to prescribe qualifying marks in the interview segment to ensure the selection of the best possible person. Therefore, the prescription of minimum marks in the Rules is not found to be in contravention of the in the All-India Judges (2002). Issue No. ii) Whether the prescription of minimum marks for viva voce violates Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution of India? 50. The learned counsel for the writ petitioners argued that the prescription of minimum marks for viva voce is violative of Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution of India for being manifestly arbitrary. Reliance has been placed on decisions of this Court which have expanded the scope of examination under Article 14.23 In this context, we must recall the oft-quoted passage from the five-judge bench decision in E.P.