This accentuates the concern about the lack of indigenous and independent research institutions. III. Labelling and Regulation of GM Foods: The Action Taken Report does not address the question of labelling of GM foods under Section 23 of the FSSA, 2006. There is inadequate clarity about the issuance of the notification under Section 22 for regulating sale, distribution and consumption of GM food. 2092 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports IV. Legislation: With respect to the recommendation to initiate the process of consultation to enact a comprehensive legislation on regulation of biotechnology, I note that the Action Taken Report refers to the Biotechnology Regulatory Authority of India, 2013 (“BRAI Bill, 2013”). On 28.08.2013, this Court noted that Sri K.K. Venugopal, learned senior counsel, appearing for one of the contesting respondents had informed that the Central Government has prepared a Bill bearing Bill No.57 of 2013, which is named the BRAI Bill, 2013. However, this Bill lapsed at the end of the 15th Lok Sabha. Therefore, there is no statutory regulatory framework in the form of a Parliamentary law that is in place. The 1989 Rules govern the existing procedure which are in fact subordinate legislation, which is contented to be inadequate. V. Impact on Agricultural Ecosystem: The blanket denial of adverse ecological effects by way of cross-pollination or otherwise is mostly on the basis of research conducted in foreign contexts. This may not at all be relevant in the Indian context and ecosystem. The PSC has rightly observed that the role of non-target organisms and beneficial organisms is critical to the agricultural ecosystem. 37. My understanding is that GM crops are those crops whose genomes have been modified by the insertion of usually foreign (for example, bacterial) genes through rDNA technology. Such modification serves to incorporate traits into plants that are either absent or rare in their domesticated and/or wild varieties. For instance, Bt cotton is cotton modified with a set of genes (or a gene construct) that codes for the Bt toxin. Bt toxin acts as an insecticide against pink and American bollworms. This specific insecticidal trait is absent in wild as well as domesticated varieties of cotton. 38. According to the petitioners, two traits dominate commercialized GM crops - HT (47 percent of the acreage), and insect resistance or Bt (12 percent). Another 41 percent is under stacked traits, i.e., both HT and Bt HT crops that obviate manual weeding and one can simply spray the corresponding herbicide (glyphosate, glufosinate, and dicamba) on the entire field, and everything other than the HT crop will perish. In theory, the Bt crop reduces the applications of external insecticides. Thus, most of the GM crops commercialized [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2093 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. globally, in particular HT and stacked crops, are tailored for the routines of capital-intensive agriculture, i.e., agriculture that relies on monoculture (rather than mixed and intercropping), purchased seeds, fossil fuels, and intensive applications of synthetic chemicals which in effect is not sustainable in the long run.