One of the classes of persons on whose behalf the protection of the trusteeship is called is in respect of the property of those persons who are absent in the country, such as a person who has migrated to a country which is described as an enemy country by the Government of India as defined under the provisions of the Act under consideration. 14.12 Thus, under the Act, the Custodian acts as a trustee. A trust is more than an obligation to use the property for the benefit of another; it is an obligation to use it for the benefit of another in whom it is already concurrently vested. Since the beneficiary is himself the owner of the enemy property, in the instant case, the Custodian who is the trustee appointed under the Act is therefore a statutory authority constituted for the administration of the enemy property, who is only a nominal owner of the property so administered by him vis-à-vis third parties. As already noted, the nominal ownership in the trustee is only for the purpose of using the rights and powers vesting with the trustee i.e., Custodian under the Act to be used by him or on behalf of the real owner of the property is absent, since he has left the country for an enemy country. 14.13 The trustee or Custodian under the Act may, in pursuance of the powers vested in him under the Act which actually creates a trust by operation of law, can lease or mortgage the property without the concurrence of the beneficiary under the provisions of the Act just as the beneficiary could have dealt in the same way with his ownership of the property independently of the trustee as there is no bar in law to do so other than the provisions of the Act. Thus, a relationship of trusteeship exists between the trustee and all persons beneficially interested in the property, either as owners or encumbrancers. Possession: 14.14 There is another jurisprudential angle to the matter. Under the Act the Custodian takes possession of the enemy property, in as much as, the enemy property vests with the Custodian under the provisions of the Act. What does this entail? [2024] 2 S.C.R. 897 Lucknow Nagar Nigam & Others v. Kohli Brothers Colour Lab. Pvt. Ltd. & Others 14.15 While discussing on the jurisprudential aspects of vesting or taking possession in the instant case as per the provisions of the Act, it is necessary to reiterate and bear in mind the following aspects: (i) That there are three possible situations: first, the possession usually exists both in law and in fact; secondly, the possession may exist in fact but not in law; thirdly, the possession may exist in law but not in fact. This is also called ‘constructive possession’. In the case of the Custodian for Enemy Property, possession exists in law under the provisions of the Act but may be in fact in the hands of a third party such as a tenant or a mortgagee of the owner of such property who is declared an enemy under the Act.