Excessive interest charged by banks 2.12.1 Though interest rates have been deregulated, charging of interest beyond a certain is seen to be usurious, and can neither be sustainable nor be conforming to normal banking practice. Boards of banks have therefore been advised to lay out appropriate internal principles and procedures so that usurious interest including processing and other charges, are not levied by them on loans and advances, in laying down such principles and procedures in respect of small value loans, particularly personal loans and such other loans of similar nature, banks should take into account, inter-alia the following broad guidelines: …...” 28. The Counsel for the Complainant has referred to various other circulars issued by the Reserve Bank of India, wherein the RBI has acknowledged that it has been receiving many complaints with regard to banks charging excessive rates of interests and vide such circulars, the RBI has directed the banks to not charge such high rates of interest. It is submitted that the current practice is such that, if a person fails to make the due payment within 30/45 Days, he will have to pay interest @ 36-49%, which is exorbitant, and unfair. It is argued that since services of banking, fall within the definition of “services” under section 2(1)(o) of the Act, any deficiency/dispute in such services arising therefrom shall also be governed under the Consumer Protection Act, 1986. 29. It is argued by the Complainants that a person aggrieved by the excessive rates of interest cannot be rendered helpless and by virtue of section 2 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, the operation of other laws is not expressly barred. It is the grievance of the Complainants that since the person who opens a bank account with a Bank, is a consumer of the bank’s facilities, the provisions of Consumer [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1501 Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corp. Ltd. v. Awaz & Ors. Protection Act, 1986 and the Consumer Forums are the necessary medium for grievance redressal. 30. It is also the case of the Complainants that the terms and conditions laid down by the Banks, at the time of issuance of the credit cards, constitute a unilateral, and one-sided contract. The counsel for the Complainants has drawn a parallel with the contracts of adhesion from the French term (contracts d’ adhesion) as they symbolise a single will so unilaterally dominant that it dictates its terms not to an individual, but to an indeterminate collectively. The characteristics associated with a contract, such as freedom of contract and consensus are absent from such contracts, which makes such terms unfair and unconscionable. The term “unfair contracts” has been defined under section 2(46) of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 and include all such contracts that have terms which cause significant change in the rights of such consumer. It is submitted that the unilateral terms of the banks, in charging such excessive rates of interest, is such an unfair contract. 31. Our attention is drawn to the 103rd Report submitted by the Law Commission on “Unfair Terms in Contract”, wherein it had recommended an amendment in the Indian Contract Act, 1872 against such unconscionable terms under any contract.