The courts took notice of the fact that the provisions of the Act, 1989 were being misused to some extent for purposes not intended by the legislation. To 1120 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports overcome the bar of Section 18 of the Act, 1989, the persons against whom such complaints were being lodged started invoking the writ jurisdiction of the High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution. 30. Taking note of the aforesaid, this Court in Dr. Subhash Kashinath Mahajan v. State of Maharashtra and Another reported in (2018) 6 SCC 454, while quashing the proceedings instituted against the appellant therein under the provisions of the Act, 1989 thought fit to issue the following directions: “79.1. Proceedings in the present case are clear abuse of process of court and are quashed. 79.2. There is no absolute bar against grant of anticipatory bail in cases under the Atrocities Act if no prima facie case is made out or where on judicial scrutiny the complaint is found to be prima facie mala fide. 79.3. In view of acknowledged abuse of law of arrest in cases under the Atrocities Act, arrest of a public servant can only be after approval of the appointing authority and of a non-public servant after approval by the SSP which may be granted in appropriate cases if considered necessary for reasons recorded. Such reasons must be scrutinised by the Magistrate for permitting further detention. 79.4. To avoid false implication of an innocent, a preliminary enquiry may be conducted by the DSP concerned to find out whether the allegations make out a case under the Atrocities Act and that the allegations are not frivolous or motivated. 79.5. Any violation of Directions 79.3 and 79.4 will be actionable by way of disciplinary action as well as contempt. 79.6. The above directions are prospective.” 31. The Parliament took notice of the aforesaid directions and thought fit to carry out certain amendments in the Act, 1989 vide the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Amendment Act, 2018. The relevant portion is extracted hereinbelow: [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1121 Shajan Skaria v. The State of Kerala & Anr. “2. After section 18 of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989, the following section shall be inserted, namely:— “18A. (1) For the purposes of this Act,— (a) preliminary enquiry shall not be required for registration of a First Information Report against any person; or (b) the investigating officer shall not require approval for the arrest, if necessary, of any person, against whom an accusation of having committed an offence under this Act has been made and no procedure other than that provided under this Act or the Code shall apply. (2) The provisions of section 438 of the Code shall not apply to a case under this Act, notwithstanding any or or direction of any Court.”. 32. The provisions inserted by way of carving out Section 18-A of the Act, 1989 referred to above were made the subject matter of challenge in Prathvi Raj Chauhan (supra).