We do not find any such contrary intention in the 1967 Act. 33. Section 38 of the 1967 Act carries the heading or title “offence relating to membership of a terrorist organisation”. As we have already observed, a terrorist act would have to be construed having regard to the meaning assigned to it in Section 15 thereof. We have given our interpretation to this provision earlier. “terrorist organisation” [as employed in Section 2(m)], in our opinion is not a mere nomenclature and this expression would mean an organisation that carries on or indulges in terrorist acts, as defined in said Section 15. The term terrorism, in view of the provisions of Section (2) A person, who commits the offence relating to membership of a terrorist organisation under sub- section (1), shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term not exceeding ten years, or with fine, or with both. 302 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 2(k) of the said Act, ought to be interpreted in tandem with what is meant by ‘terrorist Act’ in Section 15 thereof. 34. In this context, to bring the appellants within the fold of Section 38 of the 1967 Act, the prosecution ought to have prima facie establish their association with intention to further the said organisation’s terrorist activities. It is only when such intention to further the terrorist activities is established prima facie, appellants could be brought within the fold of the offence relating to membership of a terrorist organisation. To bring within the scope of Section 38 of the 1967 Act, it would not be sufficient to demonstrate that one is an associate or someone who professes to be associated with a terrorist organisation. But there must be intention to further the activities of such organisation on the part of the person implicated under such provision. But the same line of reasoning in respect of membership of a terrorist organisation under Section 20, ought to apply in respect of an alleged offender implicated in Section 38 of the 1967 Act. There must be evidence of there being intention to be involved in a terrorist act. So far as the appellants are concerned, at this stage there is no such evidence before us on which we can rely.” We, further, do not think the undated account statement has sufficient probative value at this stage to prima facie sustain a case against her and implicate her for offences relating to the provision of support or raising of funds for a terrorist organisation, specified under Section 398 and 409 of 1967 Act. Evidence of her involvement in 8 39. Offence relating to support given to a terrorist organisation. — (1) A person commits the offence relating to support given for a terrorist organisation,— (a) who, with intention to further the activity of a terrorist organisation,— (i) invites support for the terrorist organisation, and (ii) the support is not or is not restricted to provide money or other property within the meaning of Section 40; or (b) who, with intention to further the activity of a terrorist organisation, arranges, manages or assists in arranging or managing a meeting which, he knows, is— (i) to support the terrorist organisation, or (ii) to further the activity of the terrorist organisation, or (iii) to be addressed by a person who associates or professes to be associated with the terrorist organisation; or (c) who, with intention to further the activity of a terrorist organisation, addresses a meeting for the purpose of encouraging support for the terrorist organisation or to further its activity.