The locus of a private individual seeking the exercise of jurisdiction of this Court under Article 136 of the Constitution is no longer res integra. This Court in National Commission for Women (supra) has observed that an appeal by a private individual can be entertained, both sparingly and after due vigilance, following the exposition of law in Arunachalam (supra). Furthermore, in Amanuallah (supra), this Court dealt with this issue in detail and observed: “19. The term “locus standi” is a Latin term, the general meaning of which is “place of standing”. Concise Oxford English Dictionary, 10th Edn., at p. 834, defines the term “locus standi” as the right or capacity to bring an action or to appear in a court. The traditional view of “locus standi” has been that the person who is aggrieved or affected has the standing before the Court that is to say he only has a right to move the Court for seeking justice. Later, this Court, with justice-oriented approach, relaxed the strict rule with regard to “locus standi”, allowing any person from the society not related to the cause of action to approach the Court seeking justice for those who could not approach themselves. Now turning our attention towards the criminal trial, which is conducted, largely, by following the procedure laid down in CrPC. Since, offence is considered to be a wrong committed against the society, the prosecution against the accused person is launched by the State. It is the duty of the State to get the culprit booked for the offence committed by him. The focal point, here, is that if the State fails in this regard and the party having bona fide connection with the cause of action, who is aggrieved by the of the Court cannot be left at the mercy of the State and without any option to approach the appellate Court for seeking justice. 24. After considering the case law relied upon by the learned counsel for the appellants as well as the respondents, in the light of the material placed on record, we are of the view that the appellants have locus standi to maintain this appeal. From the material placed on record, it is clear that the appellants have precise connection with the matter at hand and thus, have locus to maintain this appeal. The learned counsel for the appellants has rightly placed [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1457 M.R. Ajayan v. State of Kerala & Ors. reliance upon the Constitution Bench of this Court, namely, P.S.R. Sadhanantham [P.S.R. Sadhanantham v. Arunachalam (1980) 3 SCC 141 : 1980 SCC (Cri) 649] and other decisions of this Court in Ramakant Rai [Ramakant Rai v. Madan Rai (2003) 12 SCC 395 : 2004 SCC (Cri) Supp 445], Esher Singh [Esher Singh v. State of A.P., (2004) 11 SCC 585 : 2004 SCC (Cri) Supp 113], Rama Kant Verma [Rama Kant Verma v. State of U.P. (2008) 17 SCC 257 : (2010) 4 SCC (Cri) 734]. Further, it is pertinent here to observe that it may not be possible to strictly enumerate as to who all will have locus to maintain an appeal before this Court invoking Article 136 of the Constitution of India, it depends upon the factual matrix of each case, as each case has its unique set of facts.