Statement II: Atoms of each element are stable and emit their characteristic spectrum. In the light of the above statements, choose the most appropriate answer from the options given below: (1) Statement I is incorrect but Statement II is correct. (2) Both Statement I and Statement II are correct. (3) Both Statement I and Statement II are incorrect. (4) Statement I is correct but Statement II is incorrect.” 14. We have not indicated the number of the question since the number of the question as well of the options is likely to vary in different series of the question papers in view of the procedure which is followed to preserve the integrity of the process. 15. Initially, the answer key which was prepared by the NTA indicated that the fourth option extracted above was the correct answer. Subsequently, on representations submitted to NTA, a decision was taken to the effect that both the second as well as the fourth options would be treated to be the correct answers. 16. By an of this Court dated 22 July 2024, the Director of IIT, Delhi was requested to constitute a three-member committee to submit its opinion on which of the options noted above would be the correct answer to the above question. The Director and Professor of the Department of Energy Science & Engineering at IIT, Delhi has in a report dated 23 July 2024, indicated that a three-member Committee from the Department of Physics comprising of (i) Professor Pradipta Ghosh; (ii) Professor Aditya Narain Agnihotri; and (iii) Professor Sankalpa Ghosh was constituted for that purpose. 17. The expert team constituted by the Director of IIT, Delhi has opined that option (4), as extracted above, is the correct answer. In to obviate any ambiguity, option (4) which is to be treated as the correct answer is set out below: “(4) Statement I is correct but Statement II is incorrect.” [2024] 7 S.C.R. 967 Vanshika Yadav v. Union of India and Others 18. The expert determination by the team constituted by the IIT, Delhi leaves no manner of ambiguity in regard to the correct option. This was, in fact, initially the only option which was treated as the correct answer by NTA. Options (2) and (4) are mutually exclusive and both cannot stand together. 19. We accept the report of IIT, Delhi. Accordingly, NTA shall revise the result of the NEET (UG) 2024 on the basis that option (4), as extracted above, represents the only correct answer to the question. NTA is directed to update the ranks of all candidates. 20. During the course of the hearing, the Court had been apprised of the fact that NTA was conducting a special test for 1,563 students in supersession of the compensatory marks which were awarded. The 1,563 students were given the option of either appearing for the special test or in the alternative, to opt for their original marks without the addition of compensatory marks. NTA is permitted to act following the test which was held.