21. Conditional on compliance with the three conditions set out above, SBI stated that it would be willing to withdraw both the company appeals which were pending before the NCLAT as well as the Civil Appeals which were pending before this Court, details of which were set out in the affidavit. The offer which was made by SBI on behalf of the lenders had to be complied with as it stood in the event that the SRA sought the benefit of the offer. According to the SRA, the PBG was liable to be released on adjustment in terms of the Resolution Plan. This is a matter which would have to await an adjudication by NCLAT in the pending appeal. The impugned of the NCLAT, on the other hand, allowed the plea of the SRA for adjustment and consequential release of the PBG at the interlocutory stage. This prima facie would not be in accordance with the tenor of paragraph 8 of the affidavit which was filed by SBI in which it stated that the lenders would not contest the issues in the pending appeal conditional on compliance with the three conditions which were set out in the affidavit. Infusion of Rs 350 crores, as envisaged in the affidavit, could not have been substituted with a direction for adjustment of the PBG, at that stage. Infusion meant that the third tranche has to be paid in the same manner. Adjustment of the PBG was not permissible. 22. In the circumstances, we have come to the conclusion that NCLAT was not justified in holding, in its dated 28 August 2023, that the last tranche of Rs 150 crores which was to be paid would be adjusted against the PBG. The SRA having deposited the first two tranches each of Rs 100 crores must comply with the remaining obligation of depositing Rs 150 crores (to make up a total payment of Rs 350 crores). Having by its conduct accepted the terms set 1060 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports up by SBI it must be obligated to comply with the entirety of its obligations. It must do so in strict compliance with the time schedule set out hereafter. 23. The lenders have submitted that: (i) The admitted claim of the Financial Creditors is Rs 7800 crores, while the package offered by the SRA in the Resolution Plan is Rs 4783 crores payable in tranches in five years; (ii) Instead of infusing Rs 350 crores, being the first tranche of payment, which was to be paid in 180 days, the SRA has infused a sum of Rs 187 crores after two years, in addition to Rs 13 crores paid by a third party; and (iii) The lenders have already incurred Rs 386.72 crores during the CIRP and after the approval of the Plan towards maintaining the Corporate Debtor, excluding airport dues. In addition, the lenders are incurring Rs 22.26 crores on a monthly basis towards expenses/carrying cost for maintaining the Corporate Debtor. 24.