In the same case, the Court has also held that a law which seeks to acquire or requisition property for a public purpose should also satisfy the requirements of article 19 (1) (f). The Bill seeks to surmount the difficulties placed in the way of giving effect to the Directive Principles of State Policy by the aforesaid interpretation. The word “compensation” is sought to be omitted from article 31(2) and replaced by the word “amount”. It is being clarified that the said amount may be given otherwise than in cash. It is also proposed to provide that article 19(1)(f) shall not apply to any law relating to the acquisition or requisitioning of property for a public purpose. 3. The Bill further seeks to introduce a new article 31C which provides that if any law is passed to give effect to the Directive Principles contained in clauses (b) and (c) of [2024] 11 S.C.R. 317 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. article 39 and contains a declaration to that effect, such law shall not be deemed to be void on the ground that it takes away or abridges any of the rights contained in article 14, 19 or 31 and shall not be questioned on the ground that it does not give effect to those principles. For this provision to apply in the case of laws made by State Legislatures, it is necessary that the relevant Bill should be reserved for the consideration of the President and receive his assent. (emphasis supplied) Amongst others, this Amendment substituted the word ‘compensation’ with the word ‘amount’ in Article 31(2). It also introduced Article 31-C, making legislations passed under Article 39 (b) & (c) immune from challenges under Articles 14 & 19 of the Constitution. The laws which were made subsequently and their challenge before the Courts have to be seen in the light of the background stated above. 43. It is true that the state of our economy and society has undergone a change since the Constitution was framed in the late 40s and first interpreted in the early 50s. Even till the 70s and early 80s, this Court had no difficulty in interpretating and giving a meaning to the words ‘material resources of the community’, by including privately owned resources as its part. Doubts have been raised by this Court now, which is only significant of the times we presently live in. When a wider interpretation was given to the words “material resources” in the 60s, 70s and early 80s, it was in an era where socialism was still a principle embedded in our constitutional ethos and definitely in our economy. The political philosophy of that day also recognised and accepted this principle. Times have changed since then, and so has the governing philosophy which is now of a liberal and market driven economy. All the same, as our short but significant constitutional journey demonstrates the crucial Constitutional Amendments and its consequence, the landmark decisions of the Supreme Court relate as much to personal liberty as to wealth and its redistribution, which again is a part of the “material resources of the community”, covered under Articles 38 and 39 of the Constitution.