2.1 The respondent no. 1 (‘complainant’), a teacher in a school in Aurangabad, states that having watched the promotional trailer of the film, she decided to go to watch the movie on the silver screen with her family. However, she found that the movie did not contain the song, even though the song was widely circulated for promoting and publicising the movie. She filed a consumer complaint before the District Consumer Redressal Forum wherein she has stated that she decided to watch the movie after watching the song in the promotional trailer, with the expectation of watching the song in the theatre. However, to her disappointment, she found that the song was not played in the movie. She alleges that due to this, she felt cheated and deceived by the appellants and has undergone mental agony. In view of the above, she claimed Rs. 60,550 as damages. 3. In a short dated 29.04.2016, the District Consumer Redressal Forum dismissed the complaint on the ground that there is no relationship of consumer and service provider. 3.1 Against the above , the complainant filed an appeal before the State Commission, which was allowed by dated 22.09.2017. The State Commission held that entertainment services are covered under the definition of ‘service’ and the appellant is a service provider. Apart from holding that there is deficiency in service, the State Commission held that the appellant has engaged in an unfair trade practice as the song in the promotional trailer was widely circulated but not shown in the film. Under these circumstances, the State Commission awarded Rs. 10,000 as compensation for mental harassment and Rs. 5,000 as cost to the complainant. [2024] 5 S.C.R. 147 Yash Raj Films Private Limited v. Afreen Fatima Zaidi & Anr. 3.2 The appellant carried the matter to the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission1. By the impugned,2 the NCDRC held that a consumer would feel deceived if a song that is shown in the promotional trailer is not played in the film, thereby amounting to an unfair trade practice. Further, there is deficiency of service as playing the song in the trailer leads to an implied promise that it will be played in the film. In its own words, the NCDRC held as follows: “7. When the producer of a movie shows the promos of the said movie on TV Channels, etc. and such promos include a song, any person watching the promo would be justified in believing that the movie would contain the song shown in the said promos, unless the promo itself contains a disclaimer that the song will not be a part of the movie. If a person likes the song shown in the promo and based upon such liking decides to visit a cinema hall for watching the said movie for a consideration, he is bound to feel deceived, disappointed and dejected if the song shown in the promo is not found in the film. The practice of including a song in the promo of a film shown widely on TV Channels but excluding the said song while exhibiting the movie, in my opinion, constitutes an unfair trade practice.