1717 Mineral Area Development Authority & Anr. v. M/s Steel Authority of India & Anr. Etc. lands and buildings, but a tax upon the transmission of title by gift. The value of lands and buildings was held to be a measure of the value of gifts. Therefore, it was held that Parliament was competent to enact the levy. 274. In D G Gose and Co (Agents) Pvt Ltd v. State of Kerala,343 the validity of the Kerala Building Tax Act 1975 was challenged on the ground of being a tax on the capital value of the assets of an individual under Entry 86 of List I. The Constitution Bench held that a tax on buildings was a direct tax on the assessee’s buildings as such, and was not a personal tax without reference to any particular property. It was further held that a State legislature while imposing a tax under Entry 49 of List II may decide how best to levy it. 275. In view of the above discussion, we can summarize344 the following principles for a tax under Entry 49 of List II: (i) The expression “lands” means all kinds of lands irrespective of the use to which the land is put; (ii) The expression “lands” includes not only the surface but everything under and over the surface; (iii) A tax on lands and buildings is a tax on lands and buildings as units; (iv) The expression ‘tax on lands and buildings as a unit’ is used to distinguish composite taxes which involve imposition of tax cumulatively on all assets such as under Entry 86 of List I; (v) The tax is not a tax on totality, that is, it is not a composite tax on the value of all lands and buildings; (vi) The tax is not concerned with the division of interest in the building or land; (vii) A tax levied on the activity or service rendered on or in connection with lands and buildings does not fall within the description of taxes on lands and buildings under Entry 49 of List II; (viii) The use to which the land is put does not affect the competence of the State legislature to tax it; and 343 [1980] 1 SCR 804 : (1980) 2 SCC 410 344 See Union of India v. H S Dhillon (1971) 2 SCC 779 [74] 1718 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (ix) The legislature may take into account the use of land for determining the measure of taxation under Entry 49 of List II. a. States can impose tax on mineral bearing land 276. A state does not have to tax everything in to tax something. The legislature has a wide discretion is selecting the persons or objects it wants to tax depending upon social, economic, and administrative considerations.345 This discretion flows from the fact that a legislature which is competent to levy a tax must inevitably be given full freedom to determine “which articles should be taxed in what manner and at what rate.”346 The power to levy a tax includes ancillary powers such as the power to fix the rate, prescribe machinery for the recovery of tax, prevent tax evasion, appoint authorities for collecting taxes, and prescribe the procedure for determining the amount of taxes payable by any individual.347 This Court has generally adopted the approach of giving wide latitude to the legislature in matters of tax and economic regulations,348 provided the law is reasonable349 and avoids clear and hostile discrimination against particular persons or classes.350 277.