v. Union of India & Ors. “119. The time has come for us to apply the constitutional “doctrine of proportionality” to the matters concerning environment as a part of the process of judicial review in contradistinction to merit review. It cannot be gainsaid that utilisation of the environment and its natural resources has to be in a way that is consistent with principles of sustainable development and intergenerational equity, but balancing of these equities may entail policy choices. In the circumstances, barring exceptions, decisions relating to utilisation of natural resources have to be tested on the anvil of the well-recognised principles of judicial review. Have all the relevant factors been taken into account? Have any extraneous factors influenced the decision? Is the decision strictly in accordance with the legislative policy underlying the law (if any) that governs the field? Is the decision consistent with the principles of sustainable development in the sense that has the decision-maker taken into account the said principle and, on the basis of relevant considerations, arrived at a balanced decision? Thus, the Court should review the decision-making process to ensure that the decision of MoEF is fair and fully informed, based on the correct principles, and free from any bias or restraint. Once this is ensured, then the doctrine of “margin of appreciation” in favour of the decision-maker would come into play.” (Emphasis supplied) 25 (a) 7. Recently in Jacob Puliyel v. Union of India and Ors.11 (2-Judge Bench), while considering the vaccination policy due to COVID-19, this Court reiterated the scope of judicial review with policy decisions of the executive. Arbitrariness, irrationality, perversity and mala fide will render the policy unconstitutional. Relying on Delhi Development Authority v. Joint Action Committee, Allottee of SFS Flats (2-Judge Bench),12 this Court explained that a policy decisions can be subject to judicial review (a) if it is unconstitutional; (b) if it is dehors the provisions 11 [2022] 3 S.C.R. 471 : 2022 SCCOnline SC 533 12 [2007] 13 SCR 811 : (2007) 4 SCC 737 1882 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of the Act and the regulations; (c) if the delegatee has acted beyond its powers of delegation; (d) if the executive policy is contrary to the statutory or a larger policy. It was further stated: “22. This Court in a series of decisions has reiterated that courts should not rush in where even scientists and medical experts are careful to tread. The rule of prudence is that courts will be reluctant to interfere with policy decisions taken by the Government, in matters of public health, after collecting and analysing inputs from surveys and research. Nor will courts attempt to substitute their own views as to what is wise, safe, prudent or proper, in relation to technical issues relating to public health in preference to those formulated by persons said to possess technical expertise and rich experience. Where expertise of a complex nature is expected of the State in framing rules, the exercise of that power not demonstrated as arbitrary must be presumed to be valid as a reasonable restriction on the fundamental right of the citizen and judicial review must halt at the frontiers.