A suggestion to that effect was also given to the prosecution witnesses. Hence, this was a material circumstance explaining the drastic step to commit suicide. (vi) PW-1 tried to implicate even the elder brother of the husband of the deceased even though he resided in another town in connection with service. This would suggest that there was a malicious attempt to implicate the entire family without any basis. In such circumstances, the Court ought to have been circumspect. More so, when no witness of the locality was produced in support of the prosecution case. (vii) Presumption under Section 113-B of the Evidence Act arises only when the necessary ingredients of a dowry death are proved beyond reasonable doubt. Here there was no direct and reliable evidence that the deceased was subjected to cruelty in connection with demand of dowry soon before her death. Hence, there was no occasion to raise a presumption in respect of a dowry death. [2024] 9 S.C.R. 825 Shoor Singh & Anr. v. State of Uttarakhand (viii) There were sufficient reasons for the deceased to commit suicide, such as: (a) She was depressed for not being able to reside with her husband who had to be away from home in connection with his service. (b) She was shamed by discovery of a photograph (Ex. Kha- 1) wherein she was noticed alone with a male stranger in front of a waterbody. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF STATE 10. On behalf of the prosecution (i.e., the State of Uttarakhand), it was submitted: (i) PW-1, PW-2 and PW-3 have all been consistent about the deceased reporting to them that accused persons were demanding a motorcycle and cash of Rs.50,000/- and threatening her that if their demand is not met by the date of child naming ceremony, she would be killed. Naming ceremony was held on 11.01.2007 and soon thereafter the deceased died on 17.01.2007. Thus, deceased’s statement was in respect of circumstances of the transaction which resulted in her death and, therefore, admissible in evidence under Section 32 (1) of the Evidence Act. (ii) The courts below justifiably raised a presumption of the offence of dowry death; and that presumption was not dispelled by the accused- appellants. Moreover, the appellants being father-in- law and mother-in-law of the deceased, residing in the same house where the deceased died an unnatural death, were liable to be convicted. (iii) The photograph (Ex. Kha-1) was not admissible in evidence as neither the person who took the photograph nor its negative was produced in evidence. Otherwise also, it did not reveal any such compromising position of which the deceased will be ashamed of. (iv) The appeal is concluded by concurrent findings of fact, therefore no case for interference is made out. 826 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports ANALYSIS/DISCUSSION 11. Before we proceed to test the merit of the rival submissions, it would be useful to cull out certain facts as regards which there is no serious dispute. These are: (a) the deceased was married to the son of the appellants within seven years of her death; (b) the deceased died an unnatural death on account of ante- mortem burn injuries; (c) place of death of the deceased was her matrimonial home; (d) just 18 days before her death, the deceased had given birth to a male child; (e) prior to her death there was no police complaint or FIR in respect of harassment of the deceased for any reason whatsoever; (f) there is no evidence that any of the accused demanded dowry, or a motorcycle, or cash from the family members of the deceased either before the marriage or at the time of marriage; and (g) there is no evidence that the deceased was physically assaulted by any of the accused in connection with demand for dowry or motorcycle or cash.