The amendment allowed persons with more than eighty percent locomotor disabilities to pursue medical courses on a case to case basis. The new appendix states as follows: “Persons with more than 80% disability may also be allowed on case to case basis and their functional competency will be determined with the aid of assistive devices, if it is being used, to see if it is brought below 80% and 3 “32. Reservation in higher educational institutions.—(1) All Government institutions of higher education and other higher education institutions receiving aid from the Government shall reserve not less than five per cent. seats for persons with benchmark disabilities. (2) The persons with benchmark disabilities shall be given an upper age relaxation of five years for admission in institutions of higher education.” 4 “RPWD Act” 5 “MCI” [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2203 Om Rathod v. The Director General of Health Services & Ors. whether they possess sufficient motor ability as required to pursue and complete the course satisfactorily.” (emphasis supplied) 20. The amended guidelines brought about a welcome change by eschewing from a purely benchmark model to a functional ability model. For candidates with more than eighty percent locomotor disability, the guidelines allow their functional competency to be determined using assistive devices to see if it can be brought below 80%. The second respondent has submitted that a new committee will be constituted to recommend new guidelines for admission of persons with disabilities into medical courses. 21. The report of the MCI (the erstwhile version of the second respondent) which was the basis of the existing guidelines evidently found itself working in the remnants of the pre-RPWD Act legal regime. Besides making archaic observations requiring persons with disabilities to ‘introspect and assess themselves whether they are likely to meet MCI standards and outcomes’ the guidelines also noted the definition of reasonable accommodation in Section 2(y)6 of the RPWD Act. The reference was only to further state that the standard of competence cannot be lowered in the name of accommodation. The observations, made without specific context on the standard or the accommodation in question, states as follows: “MCI is aware of this provision and respects it. However, MCI cannot agree to enforce reasonable accommodation that would alter or lower the standard of competence – which exists to protect patients – that is required. Such an accommodation, if granted would be ‘unreasonable’, and not reasonable. Moreover, in some cases, even with reasonable accommodation, it may not be possible for every disabled medical student to successfully and safely undertake all stages of medical education and training ” 22. From promoting self-rejection of disabled medical aspirants to assuming that their accommodations would lower the standard of 6 “(y) “reasonable accommodation” means necessary and appropriate modification and adjustments, without imposing a disproportionate or undue burden in a particular case, to ensure to persons with disabilities the enjoyment or exercise of rights equally with others;” 2204 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports competence and would regardless be fruitless – the guidelines have charted their way into disrepute.