It is also brought to our notice that as the promotion policy itself is not working properly, a large number of Civil Judges (Junior Division) are continuing in the same post, causing stagnation from about 15 to 18 years. This is because the timely promotion is not being taken care of by the High Court and this should be corrected at the earliest. Now [2024] 5 S.C.R. 1145 Ravikumar Dhansukhlal Maheta & Anr. v. High Court of Gujarat & Ors. we are told that a total number of 217 posts have been advertised for appointment of Civil Judges (Junior Division) and 12 posts of District Judges (direct).” (Emphasis supplied) H. FEW SUGGESTIONS TO MAKE THE SUITABILITY TEST MORE MEANINGFUL 140. We have exhaustively discussed and explained the true meaning to be assigned to the principle of ‘Merit-cum-Seniority’ in context of Rule 5(1) of the 2005 Rules. However, we are of the view that this debate should not come to an end as we propose to convey to the High Court of Gujarat to amend its Rules appropriately in line with the Uttar Pradesh Higher Judicial Service Rules, 1975 where the recruitment process has been elaboratively laid down. We are also of the view that the minimum standard to be objectively assessed by way of a suitability test should be made more efficacious and productive. In this regard, we would like to suggest the following: - (i) Apart from the four components included in the Suitability Test, an additional fifth component in the form of an Interview or Viva Voce should also be included in to assess the ability and knowledge of the candidates. (ii) The High Court may consider enhancing the minimum specified threshold of marks as prescribed in the suitability test and each of its component. (iii) The evaluation of s delivered by the judicial officer being considered for promotion should be of the last two years instead of one year. (iv) Instead of seniority being considered at the very last stage of the process, some marks may be allocated for seniority at the stage of suitability test and thereafter, the final select list may be prepared on the basis of total marks. I. CONCLUSION 141. We summarise our final conclusion as under: - (A) What has been conveyed, in so many words, by this Court in All India Judges’ Association (3) (supra) is that the suitability of each candidate should be tested on their own merit. The 1146 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports aforesaid decision does not speak about comparative merit for the 65% promotional quota. In other words, what is stipulated is the determination of suitability of the candidates and assessment of their continued efficiency with adequate knowledge of case law. (B) For the 65% promotional quota this Court in All India Judges’ Association (3) (supra) did not state that after taking the suitability test, a merit list should be prepared and the judicial officers should be promoted only if they fall in the said merit list.