This is because the MTP Act requires and empowers the RMP to form such an opinion. Its bona fide assured, no aspersions may be cast on the RMP. The same applies to medical boards constituted under Section 3(2-C) and Section 3(2-D) of the MTP Act. 23. The opinion of the RMP or the medical board, as the case may be, is indispensable under the scheme of the MTP Act. This inadvertently gives the power to the RMP or the medical board to stand in the way of a pregnant person exercising their choice to terminate the pregnancy. When there is fear or apprehension in the mind of the RMP or the medical board it directly jeopardises the fundamental freedoms of pregnant persons guaranteed under the Constitution. However, the scheme of the MTP Act and the steady line of application of the law by the courts has made it clear that the RMP or the medical board cannot be prosecuted for any act done under the MTP Act in good faith. 24. In the present case, the medical board of the Grant Government Medical College & Sir JJ Group of Hospitals, Mumbai had prepared a report dated 28 March 2024 stating that the pregnancy may be terminated in view of the physical and mental health of ‘X’. The report however sought the permission of the High Court since the gestational age of the fetus was above twenty four weeks, which is the permissible age for termination of pregnancy under the MTP Act. What is inexplicable is the diametrically opposite view taken 7 [2022] 7 SCR 686 : (2023) 9 SCC 433 8 “IPC” 486 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports by the medical board in its ‘clarificatory’ opinion dated 3 April 2024. As we have noted above, the medical board issued a clarification without re-examining ‘X’. Moreover, the opinion did not elaborate on the change in circumstances which prompted the board to issue a clarification on its earlier opinion. 25. From a perusal of the MTP Act, its statement of object and reasons as well as the recommendation of the Shah Committee which examined the issue of liberalising abortion laws in India,9 two clear postulates emerge as to the legislative intent of the MTP Act. Firstly, the health of the woman is paramount. This includes the risk avoided from the woman not availing unsafe and illegal methods of abortion. Secondly, disallowing termination does not stop abortions, it only stops safe and accessible abortions. The opinion of the RMP and the medical board must balance the legislative mandate of the MTP Act and the fundamental right of the pregnant person seeking a termination of the pregnancy. However, as noticed above and by this Court in X v. State (NCT of Delhi)10 the fear of prosecution among RMPs acts as a barrier for pregnant people in accessing safe abortion. Further, since the MTP Act only allows abortion beyond twenty four weeks if the fetus is diagnosed with substantial abnormalities, the medical board opines against termination of pregnancy merely by stating that the threshold under Section 3(2-B) of the MTP Act is not satisfied.