To rule out unfortunate situations like the one in that case recurring again, this Court cautioned the State Government and the Commission to be more vigilant and constructive in their approach. This Court observed that, when dealing with careers of a large number of candidates, their stands have to be consistent and not varied to avoid giving room for unsavoury suspicions and to ensure that the system works more transparently. 25. Presently also, it is manifest that it is the KPSC, with its vacillating and dithering stance, that is largely responsible for this long-pending litigation, impacting the lives, hopes and aspirations of nearly twelve hundred candidates. The KPSC, as already noted supra, was steadfast in its stand in the earlier round that DCA was not a qualification to be considered eligible for appointment to the subject post of LDC in the Kerala Water Authority. Thereafter, the change in its stance, without any foundational inquiry to determine the superiority of the so-called higher qualifications over the prescribed qualification, leaves this Court with no doubt that it was a purely whimsical and arbitrary exercise of discretion on its part without actual application of mind as per required parameters. 26. Recently, in Sivanandan C.T. and others vs. High Court of Kerala and others,4 a Constitution Bench held thus: 3 [2004] 2 SCR 406 : (2005) 10 SCC 314 4 [2017] 13 SCR 226 : (2024) 3 SCC 799 338 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports ‘In a constitutional system rooted in the rule of law, the discretion available with public authorities is confined within clearly defined limits. The primary principle underpinning the concept of rule of law is consistency and predictability in decision-making. A decision of a public authority taken without any basis in principle or rule is unpredictable and is, therefore, arbitrary and antithetical to the rule of law. [S.G. Jaisinghani v. Union of India, 1967 SCC OnLine SC 6] The rule of law promotes fairness by stabilising the expectations of citizens from public authorities. This was also considered in a recent decision of this Court in SEBI v. Sunil Krishna Khaitan [SEBI v. Sunil Krishna Khaitan (2023) 2 SCC 643], wherein it was observed that regularity and predictability are hallmarks of good regulation and governance. [SEBI v. Sunil Krishna Khaitan (2023) 2 SCC 643] This Court held that certainty and consistency are important facets of fairness in action and non-arbitrariness: (Sunil Krishna Khaitan case, SCC pp 678-679, para 59) “59….. Any good regulatory system must promote and adhere to principle of certainty and consistency, providing assurance to the individual as to the consequences of transactions forming part of his daily affairs. ……. This does not mean that the regulator/ authorities cannot deviate from the past practice, albeit any such deviation or change must be predicated on greater public interest or harm. This is the mandate of Article 14 of the Constitution of India which requires fairness in action by the State, and non-arbitrariness in essence and substance. Therefore, to examine the question of inconsistency, the analysis is to ascertain the need and functional value of the change, as consistency is a matter of operational effectiveness.” ’ Earlier, in State of Bihar and others vs. Shyama Nandan Mishra,5 this Court observed that the State cannot be allowed to change course and belie legitimate expectation as regularity, predictability, certainty and fairness are necessary concomitants of governmental action.