Thus, the argument of the Union of India that the Electoral Bond [2024] 2 S.C.R. 524 Digital Supreme Court Reports Scheme protects the confidentiality of the contributor akin to the system of secret ballot is erroneous. Il. Balancing the right to information and the right to informational privacy a) Judicial Approach towards balancing fundamental rights: establishing the double proportionality standard 145. At the core of governance is the conflict between different constitutional values or different conceptions of the same constitutional value. Countries with a written Constitution attempt to resolve these conflicts by creating a hierarchy of rights within the constitutional where a few fundamental rights are subjected to others. For example, Article 25 of the Indian Constitution which guarantees the freedom of conscience, and the profession, practice and propagation of religion is subject to public , morality, health and other provisions of Part lll. The first exercise that the Court must undertake while balancing two fundamental rights is to determine if the Constitution creates a hierarchy between the two rights in conflict. If the Constitution does not create a hierarchy between the conflicting rights, the Courts must use judicial tools to balance the conflict between the two rights. 146. The judicial approach towards balancing fundamental rights has evolved over the course of years. Courts have used the collective interest or the public interest standard, the single proportionality standard, and the double proportionality standard to balance the competing interests of fundamental rights. 147. Before the proportionality standard was employed to test the validity of the justification for the infringement of fundamental rights, Courts balanced conflicting fundamental rights by according prominence to one fundamental right over the other based on public interest. This approach was undertaken through two modalities. In the first modality, the Court while identifying the fundamental rights in conflict circumscribed one of the fundamental rights in question such that there was no real conflict between the rights. The Court while circumscribing the right undertook an exercise of weighing the relative constitutional values of the rights based on public interest. In Re Noise Pollution"’’, writ petitions were filed seeking to curb noise 157 [2005] Suppl. 1 SCR 624 : (2005) 5 SCC 733 [2024] 2 S.C.R. 525 Association for Democratic Reforms & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. pollution. A two-Judge Bench of this Court observed that those who make noise often justify their actions based on freedom of speech and expression guaranteed under Article 19(1)(a). However, this Court observed that the right to freedom of speech and expression does not include the freedom to “engage in aural aggression”. In this case, there was no necessity for this Court to “balance” two fundamental rights because the right in question (freedom of speech and expression) was circumscribed to not include the actions challenged (noise pollution). In SubramSwaamyn iv. Uanionn of India'®®, Sections 499 and 500 of the Indian Penal Code 1860 which criminalized defamation were challenged. A two-Judge Bench of this Court framed the issue as a conflict between the right to speech and expression under Article 19(1)(a) and the right to reputation traceable to Article 21.