She would further depose that on 22.12.1995, she found swelling on his feet and also bleeding from it. One Compounder, Soni was brought to treat them. According to her, Shama was treated for 5 days and though she had been there for 5 days since 17.12.1995, she was given treatment only for a day. She also deposed that when she went to speak to Shama she found his eyes and mouth were shut and he did not speak to her. According to her, she told the accused that the police had killed him to which they replied that he was only pretending. She would further depose that at about 5 or 6 pm she was released and, thereafter, on 25.12.1995 she, along with PW-16, her children, one Anil and her brother-in-law, went to Detective Branch Office of the police station and when enquired about Shama she was told that he had escaped from police custody. 36. It is to be noted that in the context of the oral testimony of PW-1, as above, she was confronted with her Ext. 130 statement as also Ext.131, which was her statement recorded under Section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (for short “Cr.PC.”) for the purpose of contradicting her. In the light of the decision of this Court in Utpal Das & Anr. v. State of West Bengal13 there can be no doubt that a statement recorded under Section 164, Cr.PC., can also be used like a statement under Section 161, Cr.PC, to cross-examine the maker of it and to contradict him. Evidently, serious omissions were brought out by confronting PW-1 with such statements, with respect to the alleged disclosure of Shama that the accused had cut off veins of his leg and statement that he would not survive and, therefore, she should look after the children. Though in the chief examination she deposed to have been told as above by Shama while confronting with Ext. 131 they were brought as omissions which PW-1 could not explain. So also, it is evident on being confronted with Ext.130, her statement in Court that after being beaten Shama shut off his eyes and mouth and did not speak to her, was brought as omissions. A 13 [2010] 6 SCR 495 : (2010) 6 SCC 493 [2024] 9 S.C.R. 745 Manik & Ors. v. The State of Maharashtra perusal of Section 145 of the Evidence Act, 1872 would reveal that a witness could be cross-examined as to previous statement in writing only in respect of a fact relevant to the matter(s) in question, for the purpose of contradicting him in the manner provided therein. Omissions amounting to contradiction that militate against the core of the prosecution case alone is material as in such circumstances it would have a bearing on the credibility of the witness concerned. In the decision in Shri Gopal & Anr. v. Subhash & Ors.,14 this Court held that omission to state a fact amounts to contradiction. In the light of the matters in question the position that the aforementioned omissions are serious and amounting to contradictions cannot be disputed in view of the fact that they militate against the core of the prosecution case.