There is no necessity to go in revision or appeal against such an . That is also the view taken by this Court in Ramachandra’s case [1967 (1) Mys. L.J. 97.]. Therefore, the argument of Learned Counsel Sri Ujjannavar that the of the Collector in the previous execution having not been challenged, barred the present execution petition, cannot be accepted at all. xxx xxx xxx 15. Sri Ujjannavar then urged that a decree passed in a partition suit was not a preliminary decree and it amounts to saying that the decree has become final. It is no doubt true that it has been held by this Court in the decision in Ganapatrao Raojirao Desai v. Balvant Krishnaji Desai [1965 (2) Mys. L.J. 768.] that: “A decree passed under R. 18(1) of Or. XX directing partition by the Collector cannot be said to be a preliminary decree. So far as the Civil Courts are concerned it is final for all purposes, though the partition of the property may remain to be effected by the Collector. Sub-rule (1) of Rule 18 does not contemplate any application to be filed by the parties for sending the papers to the Collector.” The purport of the said expression used by this Court is that though it cannot be said to be a preliminary decree, it became final for all purposes so far as the Civil Courts are concerned. Once a decree declaring the shares of the parties is passed by the Civil Court, it has nothing more to do. It means that the case has come to an end in the Civil Court and it does not amount a final decree. [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1939 Abdul Rejak Laskar v. Mafizur Rahman & Ors. Therefore, it cannot be considered to be a final decree as understood in the Civil Procedure Code Therefore, the argument of Learned Counsel Sri Ujjannavar that in the case of a final decree the limitation would begin to run, holds no substance and it is rejected.” (Emphasis supplied) iii. When does Section 154(1)(e) bar the jurisdiction of civil courts? 52. The learned counsel appearing for the appellant is right in his submission that the jurisdiction of the civil court under Section 154(1) (e) would be barred only if an imperfect partition suit is otherwise maintainable under Section 97. He is right in his submission that to maintain a suit for imperfect partition under Section 97, the appellant has to fulfill two conditions stipulated therein. a. First, the person seeking partition should be in actual possession of the property in respect of which he seeks partition, and; b. Secondly, the co-sharers may not be ready and willing to give their consent and if the person seeking partition is not in actual possession then no other remedy is available to him except to go before the civil court and seek partition on the basis of his own title as a co-owner. 53. A reference in this connection may be made to a decision of the Calcutta High Court in Musstt.