The First Division, which deals with suits, is relevant for the purposes of this case inasmuch as by virtue of Section 43 (1) of the 1996 Act the provisions of the 1963 Act apply to arbitrations as they apply to proceedings in Court. The First Division of the Schedule comprises of ten (X) Parts. Each Part deals with suit(s) of a different nature. The period of limitation, including its start point, is dependent on its nature as well as event, if any, as specified in the Article(s) of the Schedule. Therefore, when CPC, in certain circumstances, permits combining in one action two or more distinct and independent claims, it is quite possible that one of the claims may be barred by limitation and the other may be within time.128 125 Prem Singh & Ors v. Birbal & Ors., (2006) 5 SCC 353, paragraphs 11 and 12. 126 II Rule 3, CPC.— Joinder of causes of action.— (1) Save as otherwise provided, a plaintiff may unite in the same suit several causes of action against the same defendant, or the same defendants jointly; and any plaintiffs having causes of action in which they are jointly interested against the same defendant or the same defendants jointly may unite such causes of action in the same suit. (2) Where causes of action are united, the jurisdiction of the Court as regards the suit shall depend on the amount or value of the aggregate subject-matter at the date of instituting the suit. 127 See Section 2(j) of the Limitation Act, 1963. 128 See Mohamed Ghasita v. Siraj-ud-Din and Ors. (supra), extracted in paragraph 97 of this . 602 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 140. In the instant case, as already held, the claim for compensation i.e., recovery of outstanding principal amount was covered by Article 55 of the Schedule and the start point of limitation was 19 March 2016; whereas for the relief of declaration, Article 58 was applicable. For which, the start point of limitation was the date when the debit note was communicated to Enexio i.e., the claimant. According to the arbitral tribunal, one debit note was issued on 24 August 2015, which was acknowledged by the claimant vide letter dated 28 August 2015, and the other was issued on 12 January 2016. Therefore, the period of limitation i.e., three years expired before 2 May 2019, that is, when request for arbitration was received by ICC Secretariat. In these circumstances, the relief for declaratory relief was held barred by limitation, and rightly so, by the arbitral tribunal. 141. Now, the question is whether rejection of declaratory relief impacted the relief for compensation. Answer to it, in our view, is obviously no. The reason is that the relief for compensation was not a consequential relief i.e., dependent on debit note(s) being declared invalid because issuance of debit note(s) was a unilateral act of the employer which on its own did not extinguish the right of the contractor. No doubt, where the relief sought is consequential to the declaration, and declaratory relief is found barred by time, the prayer for consequential relief will also fail.129 But where declaration is just an optional relief i.e., on which the main relief is not dependent, rejection of it as barred by limitation would not extinguish the claim in respect of which substantive relief is sought.