SBCs are charging exorbitant enrolment fees, often under different heads, in derogation of Section 24(1)(f); b. Once there is a specific provision prescribing enrolment fees, the SBCs or the BCI through their delegated rule-making power cannot charge fees beyond the substantive provision. Therefore, the BCI and the SBCs cannot invoke their powers to frame rules under Section 49(1) and Section 28(1) of the Advocates Act respectively to prescribe enrolment fees that are at variance with Section 24(1)(f); c. The term ‘subject to the provisions of this Act’ at the beginning of Section 24 has been misconstrued to permit charging enrolment fees beyond the statutory prescription. It only means that other provisions of the Act must be considered while deciding the ‘eligibility’ of law graduates to be admitted as advocates on the state rolls; d. Section 6(3) of the Advocates Act prescribes how the SBCs may constitute ‘funds’ to fulfil their functions under Section 6(2). It does not allow imposing additional charges under different heads along with the enrolment fees or charging exorbitant fees as a mandatory condition for persons to get enrolled; e. The exorbitant enrolment fees prevent law graduates belonging to economically weaker sections of society from getting admitted to the rolls of the SBCs. Such an indirect bar on law graduates enrolling as advocates offends Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution. It also makes the process of enrolment coercive, improper, unjust and unfair, violating Article 14 of the Constitution; and 1504 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports f. The Advocates’ Welfare Fund Act 2001 enacted by Parliament allows for the collection of funds through various sources for the welfare of advocates. This amount does not need to be collected by levying exorbitant enrolment fees. 10. Mr Manan Kumar Mishra, senior counsel made the following submissions on behalf of the BCI: a. Bar Councils require adequate operational funds to effectively discharge their functions. They require funds for day-to-day functioning including administrative expenses, staff salaries, infrastructure maintenance and technological advancements. Inadequate funding will hinder the ability of SBCs to comply with their statutory obligations under the Advocates Act; b. The enrollment fee prescribed under Section 24(1)(f) was fixed by the legislature in 1993 and has not been modified since. It fails to account for inflation and is not adequate to meet current financial demands. Unlike other professional bodies that levy an annual subscription fee on members, SBCs rely on the one-time enrolment fee; c. The fees charged by SBCs at the time of enrollment include additional expenses incurred in the enrolment process along with the enrolment fee prescribed by the Act, such as online data processing fee, identity card fee and verification process fee. Therefore, the fees charged do not violate Section 24(1) (f) and are linked to the services being rendered by the SBCs; d. Section 6(2) lays down the functions of the SBCs and places enrolment of advocates exclusively within their domain. An entity on whom statutory powers or duties have been conferred impliedly possesses incidental powers necessary for its effective exercise; e. Section 15 of the Act provides SBCs with the power to make rules to carry out the purposes of Chapter II of the Act (including Section 6).