In that [2024] 1 S.C.R. 259 DARSHAN SINGH v. STATE OF PUNJAB sense, there is a limited shifting of the onus of proof. If he remains quiet or offers a false explanation, then such a response would become an additional link in the chain of circumstances. 15. Both the Courts below have in fact applied the principle referred to in Trimukh’s case. Their presence having been held to be proved, the Court relied on Section 106 of the Evidence Act and shifted the onus of proof on the accused to explain the circumstances which led to the unnatural death of the deceased. 16. Whereas the Trial Court found both the accused guilty, the High Court has confirmed the of conviction only against the appellant and extended benefit of doubt to Rani Kaur. The appellant having failed to give a proper and believable explanation was, in fact, used as an additional link in the chain of circumstances. The proof of presence in that sense triggered the two consequences as laid down in Trimukh’s case (supra) 17. In this case, the presence was sought to be proved by the prosecution on the basis of the testimony of PW-3, PW-4, PW-5 and the statements of the accused at the 313 stage. The Courts below had also relied on the testimony of PW 3 and PW 4 to conclude that the appellant was present in the house. Therefore, it becomes necessary to carefully evaluate this circumstance, given the consequences that flow from proof of this circumstance. 18. PW-3 has deposed that her husband, Gurmel Singh (PW-4), on his return home from work around 8 pm on 18.05.99, had informed her that he saw the appellant along with Rani Kaur present in the appellant’s house. He further informed her that it would not be appropriate to visit their house at that time since he anticipated the possibility of a flare up among the family members. He told her that they could talk to the appellant in the morning. PW-3 stated that she visited the house of the appellant in the morning at around 4:45 am, only to find her sister lying dead. She states that she saw the appellant and Rani Kaur present in the house. She further states that both of them pushed her aside and left in a jeep, belonging to the appellant. She then states that she called her husband (PW-4) to the spot. 260 [2024] 1 S.C.R. DIGITAL SUPREME COURT REPORTS 19. In the cross examination of PW-3 on behalf of the appellant, several omissions have been brought on record by drawing her attention to her previous statement given to the police under Section 161 CrPC. For instance, it has come out in the evidence that PW-3 had omitted to state in her Section 161 statement that: (a) her husband had informed her that he saw the appellant and Rani Kaur in the appellant’s house when he was returning back home from work around 8 pm; (b) she had seen the appellant and Rani Kaur in the early hours on 19.05.99 in the appellant’s house and they pushed her aside before escaping in a jeep.