Further, the justification for invoking urgency provisions, that the land will be encroached on, had no substance as the land was already in possession of the recorded tenure holders. (ii) The Division Bench also observed that the notification under Section 4 of the Act was published on 26th February, 2009 but thereafter, the State Government took nearly one year to publish the notification under Section 612 of the Act. The time 12 Published on 19th Feb, 2010. 1074 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of one year consumed by the State Government in publishing the notification under Section 6 of the Act was by itself sufficient to infer that there was absolutely no urgency that could have justified the invocation of the urgency clause, thereby depriving the landowners of an opportunity of hearing under Section 5-A of the Act. 20. However, another Division Bench of the Allahabad High Court while dealing with a batch of 73 writ petitions challenging the very same land acquisition proceedings took a different view from Shyoraj Singh and dismissed the writ petitions filed by the landowners, the lead matter being Writ-C No. 26767 of 2010 titled “Kamal Sharma v. State of U.P.”. The Division Bench while upholding the acquisition proceedings held that it could not be accepted that the entire exercise for invocation of urgency clause was mechanical or there was no material with the State for recording the subjective satisfaction to this effect. The reasons assigned by the Division Bench in Kamal Sharma were as follows: - (i) A perusal of the Master plan and the facts established that the land required for development of Yamuna Expressway [‘Planned development through Yamuna Expressway’] was for an integrated project. The land was initially acquired for the Yamuna Expressway and, thereafter, for developing land parcels alongside the Expressway as townships. (ii) The original record of the State contains a categorical statement that the State Government, after scrutinizing the record had accepted the proposal applying mind to the fact that, in case the objections under Section 5-A of the Act were invited, it would adversely affect and cause delay in execution of the project of public importance. The said decision was made looking at the enormity of the project which required the acquisition of the lands spread over a large area of 18,000 hundred acres (approx.) comprising 16 villages. The development of the village ‘Abadi Bhoomi’s by YEIDA was also linked to the development of the land alongside the Expressway. It was not the case of non-application of mind and no fault in the decision-making process could be demonstrated. (iii) There was no post-notification delay, inasmuch as, in two or three acquisition notifications, which were the subject matter of [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1075 Kali Charan and Others v. State of U.P. and Others challenge in the present writ petitions, wherein one year time has been consumed in the issuance of the Section 6 notification, the delay has beenduly explained by the State. 21. In Kamal Sharma, the Division Bench distinguished Shyoraj Singh noting that the said failed to consider the fact that the acquisition was proposed for an integrated project and that the Division Bench did not deal with the argument that looking at the large number of tenure holders, the hearings would have resulted into the project of tremendous importance being delayed.