Section 2 of the IDRA, for immediate reference, reads as under: “2. Declaration as to expediency of control by the Union.- It is hereby declared that it is expedient in the public interest that the Union should take under its control the industries specified in the First Schedule.” 2062 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports In the First Schedule to the said Act, Item 26 reads as under: “26. Fermentation Industries: (1) Alcohol. (2) Other products of fermentation industries.” Item 26 of the First Schedule to the Act was amended on 14.05.2016 by Act 27 of 2016 with retrospective effect from 08.05.1952 and it reads as under: “26. Fermentation Industries (Other than Potable Alcohol): (1) Alcohol. (2) Other products of fermentation industries.” 7.1 Section 3 of the IDRA is the definition clause and the relevant definitions read as under: “3. Definitions. – In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,- xxx (d) “industrial undertaking” means any undertaking pertaining to a scheduled industry carried on in one or more factories by any person or authority including Government; (dd) “new article”, in relation to an industrial undertaking which is registered or in respect of which a licence or permission has been issued under this Act, means— (a) any article which falls under an item in the First Schedule other than the item under which articles ordinarily manufactured or produced in the industrial undertaking at the date of registration or issue of the licence or permission, as the case may be, fall; (b) any article which bears a mark as defined in the Trade Marks Act, 1940 (5 of 1940), or which is the subject of a patent, if at the date of registration or issue of the licence or permission, [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2063 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons as the case may be, the industrial undertaking was not manufacturing or producing such article bearing that mark or which is the subject of that patent; (e) “notified ” means an notified in the Official Gazette; xxx (g) “prescribed” means prescribed by rules made under this Act; (h) “Schedule” means a Schedule to this Act; (i) “scheduled industry” means any of the industries specified in the First Schedule; xxx (k) words and expressions used herein but not defined in this Act and defined in the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956), have the meanings respectively assigned to them in that Act.” 7.2 Chapter II of the Act deals with the Central Advisory Council and Development Councils while Chapter III speaks of regulation of scheduled industries. The headings of Sections 10 to 18 are noted within Chapter III. The said provisions deal with, inter alia, registration of existing industries, issuance of licence for producing or manufacturing of new articles, conducting investigation to be made into scheduled industries. Chapter IIIA speaks of direct management or control of industrial undertakings by Central Government in certain cases while Chapter IIIAA speaks of management or control of industrial undertakings owned by companies in liquidation.