Ltd.) 30. Aditya Patel (Director of Respondent No. 16 SRG Deegee Software Pvt. Ltd.) 31. Nitin Shripadbhai Pujari Respondent No. 17 SRG (Director of Deegee Software Pvt. Ltd.) [2024] 9 S.C.R. 901 Ajay Madhusudan Patel & Ors. v. Jyotrindra S. Patel & Ors. 4. The Petitioners herein are collectively referred to as the “AMP Group”. The Petitioner Nos. 1 to 9 & 14 respectively are individuals and family members of Mr. Ashit Patel, who are a part of the AMP Group in the FAA. The Petitioner Nos. 10 to 13 respectively are companies described as a part of the AMP Group in the FAA. The Petitioner No. 13 is a company incorporated outside India and the Petitioner No. 14 is a resident of a foreign country. 5. The Respondents are divided into two groups i.e., “JRS Group” consisting of Respondents 1 to 6, 14 & 15 and “SRG Group” consisting of Respondents 7 to 13, 16 & 17. The Millenium Estates Pvt. Ltd. (hereinafter, “Millenium”) and Deegee Software Pvt. Ltd. (hereinafter, “Deegee”) are Respondent 7 and 8 companies respectively. The Respondents 9 to 17 are all either Directors or Shareholders of Respondent 7 and 8 companies. Therefore, the Respondents comprise of individuals, Companies and Shareholders and Directors of the respective companies dealt with under the FAA. 6. Apart from the Petitioners and Respondents aforementioned, a few other individuals find a repeated mention in the facts of the present petition. First, Mr. Ashit M. Patel who is the Power of Attorney Holder of Petitioner Nos. 1 to 9 and 14 of the AMP Group. He is the co-brother of Respondent No.1. Secondly, Mr. Kalpesh Parmar, a Chartered Accountant who represented the interests of the JRS Group during the negotiations leading up to the FAA, the implementation of the FAA and the first round of mediation. He is alleged to have also represented the interests of the SRG Group during the same. In the last, Mr. Pankaj Agarwal, an employee of Deegee. 7. Mr. Ashit Patel representing the AMP Group and Mr. Jyotrindra S. Patel (Respondent No.1) of the JRS Group are co-brothers and married in the same family. The two groups were jointly engaged in various businesses and co-owned several entities. Subsequently, the SRG Group had joined hands with the AMP Group and JRS Group in two entities i.e. Millenium and Deegee. SRG Group presently holds 40% equity shares in Millenium. 8. It is the case of the Petitioners that between 2013 & 2019, various disputes arose between the AMP Group on one side and the JRS and SRG Groups on the other which led to the filing of several proceedings before various forums including the National Company Law Tribunal (hereinafter, “NCLT”) at New Delhi, Mumbai and Ahmedabad by 902 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the AMP Group. The same are still pending before the respective forums. It is pertinent to note that, of the aforesaid disputes, the respondent No.9 of the SRG Group is one of the respondents in CP/383/2017 pertaining to Deegee, filed by the AMP Group before the NCLT at Mumbai.