The Tribunal in a casual and routine manner affirmed the discharge/dismissal simply holding that the relationship certificates produced by the appellants have been found to be fake even upon verification. The Tribunal also seems to have lost sight of the crucial point of the appellants that they have applied under the general category and not as relatives of servicemen/ex-servicemen. They have not produced the alleged certificate(s) which could be held to be fake. Accordingly, the core issue arising in the matter was missed not only by the authorities concerned but by the Tribunal as well. Thus, the (s) of discharge/dismissal of the appellants and that of Tribunal stand vitiated for non-consideration of the material aspect. 21. In S.N. Mukherjee vs. Union of India2, it has been categorically laid down by this Court that an passed without consideration of the material evidence or the plea would be violative of Principles of Natural Justice and would stand vitiated for non-consideration of the relevant material, plea or the evidence. 22. At the same time in Mohinder Singh Gill vs. Chief Election Commissioner, New Delhi3, it has been provided that the validity of the impugned has to be tested on the basis of the reasoning contained therein and that the authorities are not supposed to supplement the same by means of extraneous material or affidavit before the courts. 2 [1990] 1 Suppl. SCR 44 : (1990) 4 SCC 594 3 [1978] 2 SCR 272 : (1978) 1 SCC 405 250 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 23. In the case at hand, it was not the case of the respondents ever that the vacancies on which the appellants have been enrolled/recruited were only supposed to be filled up by the relatives of the servicemen/ ex-servicemen and not by a general category person or that the posts advertised were only for the alleged reserved category. They never even took any defence based upon the newspaper clipping as referred to earlier. This is a subsequent improvement in their defence which as discussed earlier do not stand established. It is nothing but supplementing the reasoning of discharge/dismissal which is not contained in the impugned. It is thus not permissible in law in view of Mohinder Singh Gill (supra). 24. In the end, we sum up our conclusions as under: - (i) The recruitment under the Headquarter Quota was not confined to the priority/reserved class rather it was open for general category also to a limited extent; (ii) There is no material on record to establish that the appellants had produced any relationship certificate to obtain enrollment; and (iii) The discharge/dismissal of the appellants from service is vitiated for non-consideration of their specific case that they have actually not produced any relationship certificate for selection/ recruitment as they never applied in the reserved category. 25. The decision in Ex Sig. Man Kanhaiya Kumar vs. Union of India and Ors.4 as cited from the side of the respondents has no application in the present case in as much as in the said case the fraudulent enrollment in the Army was admitted to the appellants to be on the basis of fake relationship certificate.