7. Even in the appeal before the High Court, a pertinent plea was raised on behalf of the appellant that he was a juvenile on the date of the incident and thus, the proceedings undertaken against him in the trial Court were vitiated. However, the High Court also failed to advert to the said prayer. He thus urged that an inquiry should be directed to determine the age of the appellant so as to decide his plea of juvenility as per law. 8. Per contra, Shri Azmat Hayat Amanullah, learned counsel for the State opposed the submissions of Shri Rauf Rahim and urged that the highly belated plea of juvenility raised on behalf of the appellant should not be entertained by this Court. 9. We have given our thoughtful consideration to the submissions advanced on behalf of the appellant and have also gone through the material available on record. 10. Indisputably, during the pendency of the appeal before the Patna High Court, the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection) Act, 2015(hereinafter being referred to as the ‘JJ Act 2015’) had come into force which provides a comprehensive mechanism to consider the prayer of juvenility raised on behalf of an accused claiming to be a child on the date of the commission of the offence. The proviso to Section 9(2) of the JJ Act, 2015 clearly enumerates that plea of juvenility may be raised before any Court and it shall be recognised at any stage, even after final disposal of the case. The High Court, however, did not consider and decide the prayer of juvenility raised on behalf of the appellant. 11. There are catena of decisions of this Court which hold that the plea of juvenility, even if not taken before the trial Court or the High Court, can be raised before this Court. [2024] 5 S.C.R. 505 Rahul Kumar Yadav v. The State of Bihar 12. Guidelines laying down the standards for evaluating the claim of juvenility raised for the first time before this Court were laid down by this Court in the case of Abuzar Hossain vs State of West Bengal1 which are reproduced hereinbelow:- “39. Now, we summarise the position which is as under: 39.1. A claim of juvenility may be raised at any stage even after the final disposal of the case. It may be raised for the first time before this Court as well after the final disposal of the case. The delay in raising the claim of juvenility cannot be a ground for rejection of such claim. The claim of juvenility can be raised in appeal even if not pressed before the trial court and can be raised for the first time before this Court though not pressed before the trial court and in the appeal court. 39.2. For making a claim with regard to juvenility after conviction, the claimant must produce some material which may prima facie satisfy the court that an inquiry into the claim of juvenility is necessary. Initial burden has to be discharged by the person who claims juvenility.