Rama Devi (PW-24) contested Vidhan Sabha elections after the death of Brij Bihari Prasad. 1326 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (vi) He states that he had also taken part in the election campaign of Rama Devi (PW-24). (vii) He denied knowing the fact that Devendra Nath Dubey, one of the candidates of Motihari constituency, was the main rival of Rama Devi (PW-24). (viii) He further denied that Brij Bihari Prasad along with his brother, Shyam Bihari Prasad, murdered Devendra Nath Dubey. (ix) He affirmed his presence at the place of occurrence and denied the claim that he did not witness the incident. (x) He refuted the suggestion that being the brother-in-law of Brij Bihari Prasad, he is giving false evidence. (xi) He also denied the claim that he was deposing at the behest of his sister Rama Devi (PW-24). (xii) He reiterates that Mahanth Ashwani Das (PW-25) and others were present at the hospital. (xiii) Two guards, which included Lakshmeshwar Sahu, were walking beside Brij Bihari Prasad. (xiv) After the firing, the hospital staff and other people present started running in different directions. (xv) Rama Devi (PW-24) came to the hospital after the incident. He testifies to seeing her cry beside the dead body of Brij Bihari Prasad. (xvi) Police officers examined the dead body of Brij Bihari Prasad and prepared an Inquest Report. He denies signing the Inquest Report or any other document. (xvii) He had gone to the hospital the next morning on 14.06.1998. (xviii) He mentioned that his police statement was recorded about 10-12 hours12 after the incident but could not recall the exact date since it was taken seven years ago. 13. Though it was pointed out that Paras Nath Chaudhury (PW-1), in his testimony, could not remember the number of the hospital room 12 See Trial Court Record, Vol. II, p.58. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1327 Rama Devi v. The State of Bihar and Others or whether it was south-facing or not, this aspect would not, in our opinion, dent his core testimony. It is apposite to note that Paras Nath Chaudhury (PW-1) was aware that the hospital room was on the ground floor and there was a verandah after crossing 4-5 rooms on the west side. He further stated that there was a cycle stand, a vacant place for sitting, and a road which joins Bailey Road on the west side. 14. Paras Nath Chaudhury13 (PW-1) accepts that he did not seek prior permission from the court or the jail authorities to visit Brij Bihari Prasad in the hospital, nor did he make any entry into the hospital register. This is also true for other visitors, a position accepted by the prosecution. The absence of a register entry or prior permission, a factor to be taken into consideration, is not sufficient reason to discard bounteous and credible evidence and material establishing that Brij Bihari Prasad, a political leader with influence, had numerous visitors and supporters meeting him at the hospital. The fardbeyan (Exhibit-50) and the ocular evidence of Rama Devi14 (PW-24) and Mahanth Ashwani Das15 (PW-25), establish the presence of Paras Nath Chaudhury (PW-1) and other visitors.