Digital Supreme Court Reports authority to maintain checks and balances on the other branches concerning the constitution and other legal provisions, they are not empowered to supplant the legislature by delving into additional facets of policy decisions and governing citizens in its stead. This sentiment resonated in Hindi Hitrakshak Samiti v. Union of India, wherein it was held that: "8. It is well settled that judicial review, in to enforce a fundamental right, is permissible of administrative, legislative and governmental action or non-action, and that the rights of the citizens of this country are to be judged by the judiciary and judicial forums and not by the administrators or executives. But it is equally true that citizens of India are not to be governed by the judges or judiciary. If the governance is illegal or violative of rights and obligations, other questions may arise but whether, as mentioned hereinbefore, it has to be a policy decision by the government or the authority and thereafter enforcement of that policy, the court should not be, and we hope would not be an appropriate forum for decision.” 44 [Emphasis supplied] 48. Similar views were echoed in Fertilizer Corporation Kamgar Union v. Union of India,45 where a 5-judge bench of this Court affirmed that, in accordance with the principle of separation of powers, the authority of the Court is confined to assessing whether legislative or executive actions comply with the law, without delving into s on their wisdom. Consequently, while the Court possesses the jurisdiction to interpret the law and scrutinize the legality of policy decisions, it is not empowered to substitute its discretion for that of the legislature or executive, nor to speculate on the appropriateness of such decisions.46 The courts do not operate as advisors to the executive in matters of policy formulation, a prerogative rightfully within the executive’s domain. 44 Hindi Hitrakshak Samiti v. Union of India (1990) 2 SCC 352, para 8. 45 Fertilizer Corporation Kamgar Union v. Union of India (1981) 1 SCC 568, para 35. 46 A. K. Roy v. Union of India (1982) 1 SCC 271, para 51 [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1041 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 49. Similarly, it is imperative to emphasize that courts also lack the authority to intervene in policy matters when based on the premise of policy errors or the availability of ostensibly superior, fairer, or wiser alternatives. The Court cannot do a comparative analysis of policy to determine which would have been better. As summarized by this Court in Directorate of Film Festivals v. Gaurav Ashwin Jain:47 “16. […] the scope of judicial review when examining a policy of the Government is to check whether it violates the fundamental rights of the citizens or is opposed to the provisions of the Constitution, or opposed to any statutory provision or manifestly arbitrary. Courts cannot interfere with policy either on the ground that it is erroneous or on the ground that a better, fairer or wiser alternative is available.