The question really is, under what circumstances could this power be invoked and whether on the facts of this case, is a further investigation warranted. 30. There was some debate at the Bar as to whether the Addl. District and Sessions Judge before whom the application was filed by the respondent no. 1 under Section 173(8) after the conclusion of the evidence could have ed further investigation. The premise of [2024] 10 S.C.R. 11 K. Vadivel v. K. Shanthi & Ors. the argument was even though in the present case the Addl. District and Sessions Judge has not ed and it was the High Court which had ed it, while exercising jurisdiction under Section 397 read with 401 of Cr.P.C. The contention was that as per the law laid down by this Court in Vinubhai Haribhai Malaviya & Ors. vs. State of Gujarat & Anr. (2019) 17 SCC 1, further investigation could at best have been ed till the commencement of the trial. 31. In the present case, though the Trial Judge rejected the application, the High Court has ed further investigation. Considering the fact that we are inclined to set aside the of the High Court, on merits, we deem it unnecessary to discuss the issue of jurisdiction. 32. Ultimately, the contextual facts and the attendant circumstances have to be singularly evaluated and analyzed to decide the needfulness of further investigation or reinvestigation to unravel the truth and mete out justice to the parties (see Pooja Pal vs. Union of India & Ors. (2016) 3 SCC 135, para 83). As noticed in Ram Lal Narang vs. State (Delhi Administration) (1979) 2 SCC 322, (para 20) where fresh materials come to light which would implicate persons not previously accused or absolve persons already accused or where it comes to the notice of the investigating agency that a person already accused of an offence has a good alibi, it may be the duty of the investigating agency to investigate the genuineness of the same and submit a report to the court. 33. However, the further investigation cannot be permitted to do a fishing and roving enquiry when the police had already filed a charge-sheet and the very applicant for further investigation, in this case respondent no. 1, has not whispered about anything new in her evidence as is now sought to be averred in the application. There must be some reasonable basis which should trigger the application for further investigation so that the court is able to arrive at a satisfaction that ends of justice require the ing/permitting of further investigation. In Hasanbhai Valibhai Qureshi vs. State of Gujarat & Ors., (2004) 5 SCC 347), this Court held as under:- “13. In Ram Lal Narang v. State (Delhi Admn.) [(1979) 2 SCC 322] it was observed by this Court that further investigation is not altogether ruled out merely because cognisance has been taken by the court. When defective investigation comes to light during course of trial, it may 12 [2024] 10 S.C.R.