5.4 Per contra, learned senior counsel for the petitioner Sri N.K. Modi contended that the application of the respondent under Article 142(1) of the Constitution is wholly misconceived. That the exercise of power under Article 142(1) of the Constitution is extraordinary and wide and ought not be used in cases where the underlying facts are in dispute and have to be factually determined after a fair trial. It was submitted that the parties have happily lived together after marriage. Contrary to what is being averred by the respondent, it was submitted that the parties have remained in touch and lived together after marriage for a period of almost thirteen months, i.e., from 31.07.2021 to 31.08.2022, when the petitioner left for Kota. Thus, the petitioner contends that the respondent was in touch with the petitioner throughout and was maintaining cordial relations and is seeking a divorce only on paper so as to satisfy his son and his father. It was further submitted that the petitioner is opposed to a decree of divorce, as that would leave her with societal stigma of being divorced twice. Learned senior counsel for the petitioner submitted that there is still a fair chance of reconciliation between the parties as she wants to remain married. Therefore, he prayed for the dismissal of the application filed by the respondent herein. 5.5 It was also submitted that in case this Court decides to grant a decree of divorce by exercising jurisdiction under Article 142(1), then the petitioner may be permitted to continue her residence in the matrimonial home at Pune, which is in the name of the father of the respondent and be further granted a permanent alimony equitable to the amount given to the first wife of the respondent. The petitioner’s prayer is based on the contention that the respondent is a powerful man of means and position, [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1369 Rinku Baheti v. Sandesh Sharda who is not having any other financial burdens since he has divorced his first wife, his two children are settled in USA and his 85-year old father is a wealthy person with multiple sources of income, on the other hand, the petitioner is a lady with limited resources available for her survival, who is running from pillar to post for justice and has been abandoned by her own parents because of the ongoing marital dispute. Therefore, the interest and welfare of the petitioner may be borne in mind by this Court was the submission of learned senior counsel for the petitioner. Article 142(1) of the Constitution of India: 6. Before considering the facts and issues involved in the case, it is pertinent to refer to Article 142 of the Constitution of India, which reads as follows: “142. Enforcement of decrees and s of the Supreme Court and s as to discovery, etc.—(1) The Supreme Court in the exercise of its jurisdiction may pass such decree or make such as is necessary for doing complete justice in any cause or matter pending before it, and any decree so passed or so made shall be enforceable throughout the territory of India in such manner as may be prescribed by or under any law made by Parliament and, until provision in that behalf is so made, in such manner as the President may by prescribe.