correctness or otherwise of the earlier . The matter in issue, if it is one purely of fact, decided in the earlier proceeding by a competent Court must in a subsequent litigation between the same parties be regarded as finally decided and cannot be reopened. A mixed question of law and fact determined in the earlier proceeding between the same parties may not, for the same reason, be questioned in a subsequent proceeding between the same parties. But, where the decision is on a question of law i.e. the interpretation of a statute, it will be res judicata in a subsequent proceeding between the same parties where the cause of action is the same, for the expression ‘the matter in issue’ in Section 11 of the Code of Civil Procedure means the right litigated between the parties i.e. the facts on which the right is claimed or denied and the law applicable to the determination of that issue. Where, however, the question is one purely of law and it relates to the jurisdiction of the Court or a decision of the Court sanctioning something which is illegal, by resort to the rule of res judicata a party affected by the decision will not be precluded from challenging the validity of that under the rule of res judicata, for a rule of procedure cannot supersede the law of the land.” (underlining ours, for emphasis) 25. The law, as we noticed aforesaid, aptly resolves the first issue. Res judicata, as a technical legal principle, operates to prevent the same parties from relitigating the same issues that have already been conclusively determined by a court. However, it is crucial to note that the previous decision of this Court in the first round would not operate as res judicata to bar a decision on the lead matter and the other appeals; more so, because this rule may not apply hard and fast in situations where larger public interest is at stake. In such cases, a more flexible approach ought to be adopted by courts, recognizing that certain matters transcend individual disputes and have far-reaching public interest implications. F.2 Suppression of material facts by appellants 26. Counsel on behalf of the landowners have contended that the conduct of the appellants disqualifies them from seeking any relief. 1186 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports They assert that the appellants filed the present appeals, specifically under Group B.1, without disclosing that civil appeals filed by another appellant/authority against the same impugned has already been dismissed. Furthermore, this action is deemed as providing an inaccurate declaration under XXI Rule 3(2) of the Supreme Court Rules, 2013. 27. Before addressing the aforesaid contention, we may refer to the law laid down in this regard. 28. A Bench of two Hon’ble Judges of this Court in S.J.S. Business Enterprises (P) Ltd v. State of Bihar and others17 held that a fact suppressed must be material; that is, if it had not been suppressed, it would have influenced the merits of the case.