Overall assessment 4.1 Throughout the assessment, Om’s diagnosed muscular dystrophy has not interfered with his learning or self-care. He quickly adapted to new situations and found interesting and unique ways to complete tasks in unfamiliar settings. For example, while initially unfamiliar with the full extent of 2200 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the physical skills required in the MBBS program during the simulation lab experience, Om expressed confidence that these barriers could be easily mitigated using his existing compensatory skills and creative approaches to procedures. As an 18-year-old who flew on an airplane for the first time while traveling for reassessment in Delhi, Om showed remarkable zeal and passion for becoming a doctor and is suitable with appropriate clinical accommodations to pursue MBBS. Om should be given opportunities to demonstrate how he can successfully navigate clinical environments. Students with disabilities should be “Welcomed and Valued,” as demonstrated by the General Medical Council UK’s guidelines on reasonable accommodation (GMC, UK). The NMC should consider implementing similar regulations to guide faculty and minimize attitudinal barriers rooted in the medical model of disability. In the post-RPDA (Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act) era, with the advent of technology, we must welcome and recognize the competence of students with disabilities. 4.2 Progressive Disability – Is It a Concern? Such concerns fall into the realm of ableism. It is “a system of assigning value to people’s bodies and minds based on societally constructed ideas of normalcy, productivity, desirability, intelligence, excellence, and fitness. These constructed ideas are deeply rooted in eugenics, anti- Blackness, misogyny, colonialism, imperialism, and capitalism. This systemic oppression that leads to people and society determining people’s value based on their culture, age, language, appearance, religion, birth or living place, “health/wellness”, and/or their ability to satisfactorily re/produce, “excel” and “behave.” You do not have to be disabled to experience ableism” (Lewis, 2022). In Iyer Seetharaman Venugopalan vs. Union of India, the Bombay High Court initially denied an MD in Psychiatry to a blind doctor who had retinitis pigmentosa and progressively lost his vision. However, thanks to the intervention of the Supreme Court under Hon’ble CJI, [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2201 Om Rathod v. The Director General of Health Services & Ors. he was allowed to pursue Psychiatry and is now in his final year, doing successfully. Similarly, Dr. Sharad Philip, who also experienced progressive vision loss, successfully completed his MD in Psychiatry from NIMHANS Bangalore and is now a faculty member at AIIMS Guwahati. Om can similarly choose to either remain a general MBBS doctor or pursue a specialty that is less physically demanding. Only he is best placed to take this decision after completing MBBS. We should not restrict a bright student on the basis of assumptions and ableist beliefs.” 16. Accordingly, the appellant was assessed to be eligible for pursuing the MBBS course with assistive devices. The second respondent has fairly accepted the eligibility of the appellant and has only joined issue with the fact that the assessment of candidate by a doctor must comply with the rules formulated under the statutory framework.