Further, he actively engaged in the preparation to wage war against the government of India to establish the Islamic State in the year 2047. 17.20 The investigation disclosed that accused Syed Ishaaq (A-5) is the District Secretary, PFI Madurai District. He used to organize weapons training to PFI cadres in the guise of PE classes, Beginners camps, etc., where the PFI cadres were taught how to attack the vulnerable parts of the body and kill people, training with lethal weapons such as knives, swords, iron rods, etc. to achieve their goal to establish an Islamic State in India by the year 2047. He is one of the PFI’s core team members which created social disharmony on the basis of religion by spreading fake news about Tiruparankundram hills or Sikkanthar Malai communal rift. Further he motivated Muslim community youth to attend weapons training conducted by PFI in the guise of PE classes thereby making them as hit squads to attack, assault, maim and murder prominent persons even though they belonged to Muslim community for opposing PFI. 17.21 The investigation disclosed that accused S Khaja Mohideen (A-6) is the State level speaker of PFI and in- charge for Mass Mobilization. Further, it is revealed that he used to deliver speeches in the PFI camps and in the [2024] 5 S.C.R. 1029 Union of India Rep. by The Inspector of Police National Investigation Agency Chennai Branch v. Barakathullah etc. PFI meetings on the materials/articles of ISIS which were published in the Voice of Hind and Voice of Khorasan magazine. Further, he used to preach about the Ghazwa-e- Hind ie., Battle against India to motivate Muslim community people to prepare for waging war against the Government of India and to establish an Islamic state by the year 2047. He was involved in furthering and supporting proscribed terrorist organizations. Further he motivated Muslim community youth to attend weapons training conducted by PFI in the guise of PE classes thereby making them as hit squads to attack, assault, maim and murder prominent persons even though they belong to Muslim community and oppose PFI. As in-charge for Mass Mobilization, he used to make Muslim youth to join PFI and educate them about the ancient Muslim rule over India and the present situation of Muslim in India and make them ready for the Ghazwa-e-Hind, which is corroborated by the digital devices (MO-13) to (MO-17) seized from the accused and in the scrutiny report (D- 166) of the forensic report (D-155) received from NFSU. 17.22 The investigation disclosed that accused S Barkathulla, (A-7) associated himself with Manitha Neethi Pasarai (MNP), predecessor to PFI. He was the District president of PFI in the year 2014 and he organized PF1 marches/parades to create insecurity among a section of people on the basis of religion. He motivated Muslim community youth to attend weapon training conducted by PFI in the guise of PE classes thereby making them as hit squads to attack, assault, maim and murder prominent persons even though they belong to Muslim community who oppose PFI.