Relying on the other s of this Court, the Court held the said proviso to Section 11 (1-A) unconstitutional and ultra vires. It was found that the facts of the said case were similar to that of D.S. Reddy (supra). 48. It is thus a settled position of law that though a legislation affecting a single entity or a single undertaking or a single person would be permissible in law, it must be on the basis of reasonable classification having nexus with the object to be achieved. There should be a reasonable differentia on the basis of which a person, entity or undertaking is sought to be singled out from the rest of the group. Further, if a legislation affecting a single person, entity or undertaking is being enacted, there should be special circumstances requiring such an enactment. Such special circumstances should be gathered from the material taken into consideration by the competent legislature and shall include the Parliamentary/Legislative Debates. 49. In the case of Chiranjit Lal Chowdhuri (supra), this Court found that the Sholapur Mill was an undertaking of national importance employing 13,000 people, it was found that till the Managing Agents took over, it was running in profits and only thereafter, it started running in losses. It was further found that the Managing Agents were indulging in serious mismanagement and irregularities. The Court found that before the enactment was passed, the matter was placed before the Standing Committee of the Industrial Advisory Council where a large number of leading industrialists of the country were present. It was further found that before such an enactment was passed, it was persuaded by wide-scale consultations with the stakeholders. The Court also took note of the 4 factors taken into consideration by the Government for singling out the petitioner therein from the other industries facing mismanagement. They were: (i) that the undertaking 17 [2008] 8 SCR 1 : (2008) 5 SCC 1 : 2008 INSC 607 480 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports was of national importance; (ii) the undertaking was an economic unit; (iii) the technical report showed that the condition of the plants, machinery etc., which either as they stand, or after necessary repairs and reconditioning can be properly utilized; and (iv) there was a proper enquiry held before the Government took any action. It was further found that the enquiry had shown that the Managing Agents had so mismanaged that they were no longer fit and proper persons to remain in charge of such an important undertaking. 50. Insofar as the case of S.P. Mittal (supra) is concerned, this Court found that not only there was serious mismanagement in the society but the situation had become precarious and had also led to law and situation wherein the Government found it necessary to take emergent and extreme steps. 51. Similarly, in the case of Dharam Dutt (supra), this Court found that the Indian Council of World Affairs was an institute of national importance and the Parliamentary Committee Report found that there was mismanagement and as such, it was necessary to take an emergent action.