Consequently, where the same power has been used by the High Court to make a selection subsequently in 2021, such an alteration is beyond the purview of judicial review. 29. The rival submissions would now need to be analyzed. C. Analysis i. All India Judges’ Association 30. The genesis of the recruitment to the judicial service, particularly, in the context of the controversy before this Court, traces back to the in the All India Judges’ Association (supra). In the course of the , this Court noted that at the time, the recruitment to the Higher Judicial Service was being made from two sources: first, by promotion from amongst the members of the Subordinate Judicial Service; and second, by direct recruitment. The decision was preceded by the recommendations of the Shetty Commission,7 particularly regarding the revision of the pay scales and conditions of service of the District Judiciary. While accepting the recommendations of the Shetty Commission, which resulted in a favourable modification of the pay scales of the District Judiciary, this Court underscored the need to ensure certain minimum standards, 7 First National Judicial Pay Commission, 1999 (Shetty Commission Report) 1156 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports objectively assessed or fulfilled, by judicial officers who enter the Higher Judicial Service. This Court accepted the recommendation of the Shetty Commission that direct recruitment to the cadre of District Judges from amongst advocates should be 25%, by way of a competitive examination consisting of a written test and a viva voce. The decision enunciated that in-service judicial officers must be provided with the incentive to compete with each other in the process of obtaining expedited promotions. The object of doing so was to improve the caliber of persons recruited to the Higher Judicial Service. Consequently, as regards appointment by promotion, this Court held that 50% of the total posts in the Higher Judicial Service should be filled up by promotion based on merit-cum-seniority, while the remaining 25% of the posts in the Service should be filled up strictly based on merit through a limited departmental competitive examination with a stipulated qualifying service in the cadre of Civil Judge (Senior Division). The conclusions of this Court were formulated in the following terms: “28. As a result of the aforesaid, to recapitulate, we direct that recruitment to the Higher Judicial Service i.e. the cadre of District Judges will be: (1)(a) 50 per cent by promotion from amongst the Civil Judges (Senior Division) on the basis of principle of merit- cum-seniority and passing a suitability test; (b) 25 per cent by promotion strictly on the basis of merit through limited competitive examination of Civil Judges (Senior Division) having not less than five years’ qualifying service; and (c) 25 per cent of the posts shall be filled by direct recruitment from amongst the eligible advocates on the basis of the written and viva voce test conducted by respective High Courts. (2) Appropriate rules shall be framed as above by the High Courts as early as possible.” 31.