The period of sixty and ninety days shall be counted from the date on which the decision or is received by the appellant. In computing the above periods, the time required to obtain a copy of the decision or appealed against shall be excluded. S. 251. Admission of appeal after period of limitation.—Any appeal or an application for review under this Chapter may be admitted after the period of limitation prescribed therefor when the appellant or the applicant, as the case may be, satisfies the officer or the State Government to whom or to which he appeals or applies, that he had sufficient cause for not presenting the appeal or application, as the case may be, within such period.” F. ANALYSIS i. Whether the provisions of XXI Rule 90 of the Code of Civil Procedure would apply to the writ proceedings under Article 226 of the Constitution? [2024] 7 S.C.R. 505 M/s Al-Can Export Pvt. Ltd. v. Prestige H.M. Polycontainers Ltd. & Ors. 28. We shall now proceed to record our findings on the submissions canvassed on either side. We start with the decision of this Court in the case of Chilamkurti (supra) as strong reliance has been placed on the same on behalf of the appellant. This has been relied upon to make good the contention that the provisions of XXI Rule 90 of the Code of Civil Procedure (hereinafter, “CPC”) should be made applicable to the present litigation or in other words even in the writ proceedings under Article 226 of the Constitution. This decision is relied upon to fortify the submission that merely establishing a material irregularity or fraud is not sufficient to set aside the auction sale. It is necessary for the party aggrieved to go further and establish to the satisfaction of the court that the material irregularity or fraud in the conduct of the auction has resulted in substantial injury to the said party. Conversely, even if the party aggrieved has suffered substantial injury by reason of the sale, the same would not be sufficient to set aside the auction sale unless substantial injury has been shown to have been caused by a material irregularity or fraud in publishing or conducting the sale. 29. In Chilamkurti (supra), the respondent no. 2 before this Court was the State Bank of India. The State Bank of India was the plaintiff decree holder, whereas the respondent No. 1 was the defendant debtor. The State Bank of India obtained a money decree against the debtor in a suit. As the debtor failed to satisfy the decree, the State Bank of India filed execution application and brought the scheduled property owned by the debtor to auction sale through the process server of the Court of Senior Civil Judge, Kovvur in the execution proceedings for the realisation of decretal dues. The suit scheduled property was accordingly attached by the executing court under a warrant. The property was ultimately put to auction sale. The appellant before this Court in the said proceedings was the highest bidder.