18. These writ petitions were decided by the Allahabad High Court taking divergent views which are assailed in these appeals by special leave. 19. The Division Bench of the Allahabad High Court vide dated 24th April, 2017 allowed the Writ-C No. 30747 of 2010 titled Shyoraj Singh and quashed the land acquisition notifications in question holding that the grounds being taken in the impugned notifications for invocation of the urgency clause were arbitrary and bad in law. The learned Division Bench in Shyoraj Singh summoned the original records from the State Government and perused the same to arrive at the following conclusions: - (i) The Division Bench referred to two letters issued by the authorities of the District Gautam Budh Nagar, the details of which are as follows: (a) A letter justifying the invocation of the urgency clause signed by the Additional Chief Executive Officer of Yamuna Expressway, Tehsildar, Naib Tehsildar, and Lekhpal. The relevant extract from the said letter is as below: - “Yamuna expressway urgently needs the proposed land for planned industrial development. In the event of delay in the acquisition, there is a strong possibility of increasing encroachment on the proposed land, due to which public interest project of planned industrial development will adversely be affected.” “Hearing and disposal of written/oral objections will definitely take years and there will be unexpected delays which will stall the planned development.” [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1073 Kali Charan and Others v. State of U.P. and Others (b) A letter issued in 2010 by the District Magistrate, recording a satisfaction that the prevailing facts and circumstances justified the invocation of the powers under Section 17 of the Act for dispensing with the hearing of objections under Section 5-A of the Act. The relevant extract from the said letter is as below: “Due to the need to complete the project without delay in the acquisition of the said land, it is necessary to take possession of the proposed land with immediate effect. In the case of using Section 17 of LAA, the provisions of Section 5-A of the Act become extinct and I fully agree with the justification of ending the opportunity of hearing to the land owners.” With reference to the aforesaid letters, the Division Bench observed that the two grounds mentioned for invoking urgency clause were: (1) That there are chances of unauthorized construction/encroachment on the said land. (2) Large number of landowners would be affected by the acquisition and hearing such large number of landowners would delay the project. The Division Bench in Shyoraj Singh held that the above-noted factors did not furnish legally acceptable justification for the exercise of power under Section 17(1) of the Act by the State Government because the acquisition was primarily meant to cater to private interests in the name of industrial development of the District and no material was produced on record to show that the State Government and/or agencies/instrumentalities of the State were intending to establish industrial units on the acquired tracts of land.