36. The expression “perverse” has been defined by various dictionaries in the following manner: a. Oxford Advanced Learner’s Dictionary of Current English, 6th Ed. Perverse - Showing deliberate determination to behave in a way that most people think is wrong, unacceptable or unreasonable. b. Longman Dictionary of Contemporary English - International Edition Perverse - Deliberately departing from what is normal and reasonable. c. The New Oxford Dictionary of English - 1998 Edition Perverse - Law (of a verdict) against the weight of evidence or the direction of the judge on a point of law. d. New Webster’s Dictionary of the English Language (Deluxe Encyclopedic Edition) Perverse - Purposely deviating from accepted or expected behavior or opinion; wicked or wayward; stubborn; cross or petulant. e. Stroud’s Judicial Dictionary of Words & Phrases, 4th Ed. Perverse - A perverse verdict may probably be defined as one that is not only against the weight of evidence but is altogether against the evidence. 37. The wrong finding should stem out on a complete misreading of evidence or it should be based only on conjectures and surmises. Safest approach on perversity is the classic approach on the reasonable man’s inference on the facts. To him, if the conclusion on 1362 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the facts in evidence made by the court below is possible, there is no perversity. If not, the finding is perverse. Inadequacy of evidence or a different reading of evidence is not perversity. (See: Damodar Lal v. Sohan Devi and others reported in (2016) 3 SCC 78) 38. Seen in light of the aforesaid settled position of law, we are of the clear view that in the facts of the present case, the High Court overstepped its appellate jurisdiction under 43 of the CPC and substituted its own view for the one taken by the trial court without giving any categorical finding as to why the of the trial court could be said to suffer from any perversity, capriciousness, arbitrariness, malafides or having been passed in ignorance of the settled principles governing the grant of injunction under 39 of the CPC. 39. It appears from a reading of the impugned that what weighed with the High Court in setting aside the of the trial court was the existence of pending litigations between the contesting parties and the alleged misuse of political power by the plaintiffs in creating hurdles for the defendants in the exercise of their lawful rights. The High Court failed to point out any perversity in the of the trial court which occasioned it to set aside the grant of injunction. We are of the view that the High Court ought to have limited itself to adjudicating the correctness of the of the trial court on the settled principles of law and should not have taken into consideration any other extraneous matters, more particularly when the suit is still pending for adjudication on merits before the trial court. 40. We are informed that after the High Court allowed the appeal and before this court granted the interim relief the defendants have transferred the suit property, i.e., during the pendency of the present appeal.