1973 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. able to send them from our school to a College, where the teachings would be given by Christian professors and be permeated with Christian ideas.” (F.F. Monk in A History of St. Stephen’s College, Delhi, Calcutta, 1935, p. 3). In October 1879 the Cambridge Committee expressed the desirability of imparting instruction also in secular subjects. “It was also felt that the influence of the missionaries would be greatly increased if they held classes in some secular subjects and did not conform their teachings to strict religious instruction”. (ibid p. 5) Building 31. Originally, the College building was housed in hired premises paid for by the SPG. A new building was eventually constructed by the Society for the Propagation of the Gospel wherein the foundation stone bore the following inscription: To the Glory of God And the Advancement of Sound Learning And Religious Education The new building of the College was eventually opened on December 8, 1881, by Rev. Allnutt. On the said building on the front of the porch, at the top of the parapet, a ‘cross’ in bas-relief was placed and immediately under the bracket the words “Ad Dei Gloriam” had been inscribed which have since been adopted as the College motto. 32. Today the new College building in the University campus has also a large ‘cross’ at the top of the main tower and in the front porch is inscribed the St. Stephen’s motto “Ad Dei Gloriam” to perpetuate and remind the students the motive and objective of the College, namely, “The Glory of God”. 33. There is also a chapel in the College campus where religious instruction in the Christian Gospel is imparted for religious assembly in the morning. 1974 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 34. It would thus appear that since its foundation in 1881, St. Stephen’s College has apparently maintained its Christian character and that would be evident from its very name, emblem, motto, the establishment of a chapel and its religious instruction in the Christian Gospel for religious assembly. These are beyond the pale of controversy. Constitution of the College 35. It is said that during the early part of the College history, it was managed by the Mission Council — a totally Christian body. Late in 1913 it was registered as a society and a constitution was formulated on November 6, 1913 which was adopted by the SPG Standing Committee and by the Cambridge Committee. The Constitution as it stands today again maintains the essential character of the College as a Christian College without compromising the right to administer it as an educational institution of its choice. The Constitution of the College consists of Memorandum of the Society and Rules. Clause 2 of Memorandum states that “the object is to prepare students of the College for University degrees and examinations and to offer instruction in doctrines of christianity which instruction must be in accordance with the teachings of the Church of North India”.