The father’s fitness cannot override considerations of the welfare of the minor children. 57. In our opinion, in such cases, it is not the “negative test” that the father is not “unfit” or disqualified to have custody of his son/daughter that is relevant, but the “positive test” that such custody would be in the welfare of the minor which is material and it is on that basis that the court should 272 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports exercise the power to grant or refuse custody of a minor in favour of the father, the mother or any other guardian.” 11. Furthermore, this Court in Gaurav Nagpal (Supra) undertook a comprehensive and comparative analysis of laws relating to custody in the American, English, and Indian jurisdiction(s) and observed that the Court must construe the term ‘welfare’ in its widest sense i.e., the consideration by the Court would not only extend to moral and ethical welfare but also include the physical well-being of the minor children. 12. Accordingly, in view of the aforesaid, not only must we proceed to decide the present lis on the basis of a holistic and all-encompassing approach including inter alia (i) the socio-economic and educational opportunities which may be made available to the Minor Children; (ii) healthcare and overall-wellbeing of the children; (iii) the ability to provide physical surroundings conducive to growing adolescents but also take into consideration the preference of the Minor Children as mandated under Section 17(3) of the Act.3 Furthermore, we are equally conscious that the stability of surrounding(s) of the Minor Children is also a consideration to be weighed appropriately.4 13. In the present factual matrix, the minor children i.e., SSU; and SSH have interacted with the Court(s) to express their preference of guardian on a plethora of occasions. Accordingly, we consider it appropriate to briefly delve into the observations of the Court(s) vis- à-vis the preference expressed by the Minor Children: 13.1. The Learned Single Judge of the High Court engaged with the Minor Children on 24.02.2020 i.e., SSU was approximately 11.5 (eleven and a half) years old; and SHH was approximately 8 (eight) years old. The Learned Single Judge in his dated 29.04.2020 recorded that he found the Minor Children to be confident and well-groomed. Furthermore, it has been categorically stated no overt preference was indicated by the Minor Children in respect to one parent over the other. 13.2. Thereafter, the Family Court engaged in a personal interaction with the Minor Children on 11.08.2020 i.e., when SSU 3 Lahari Sakhamuri (Supra); and Tejaswini Gaud v. Shekhar Jagdish Prasad Tewari (2019) 7 SCC 42 4 Shazia Aman Khan and Ors. vs. The State of Orissa and Ors. 2024 INSC 163 [2024] 6 S.C.R. 273 Col. Ramneesh Pal Singh v. Sugandhi Aggarwal was approximately 12 (twelve) years old; and SSH was approximately 8.5 (eight and a half) years old. Pertinently, in Underlying , the Family Court observed that the Minor Children expressed their preference to reside with the Appellant. Additionally, it was observed that the Minor Children were doing well in the pursuit of their education and co-curricular activities whilst residing with the Appellant; and that the Minor Children were well-settled and progressing fine.