1 were seen shifting certain items from the first floor of the building. When the police conducted a raid on 11th July 2022, those items were not found, and therefore, the appellant tampered with the evidence. Relying upon paragraph 17.16 of the charge sheet, she submitted that protected witness Z disclosed that on 29th May 2022, the appellant attended a meeting-cum-training on the first floor of the building Ahmad Palace along with several other accused who were associated with PFI. During this meeting, the subjects relating to the expansion of the organisation, basic and advanced training of PFI members, Muslim empowerment, and future plans for PFI were discussed. She pointed out that the protected witness Z stated that after considering the remarks made by one Nupur Sharma on the Prophet Mohammed, directions were issued to the trained PFI members to attack and kill the selected targets who were involved in making derogatory remarks against the religion. Learned ASG pointed out that paragraph 17.26 of the charge sheet shows that on 12th May 2022, a sum of Rs. 25,000/- was transferred to the account of the appellant’s son, from an account of an absconding accused. She submitted that the rent agreement was bogus and was made to mislead the police, and the appellant had knowingly allowed the first floor premises to be used for PFI’s activities. She would submit that there was enough material in the documents produced along with the charge sheet, which shows that a strong prima facie case is made about the appellant’s involvement in the offences punishable under Sections 13, 18, 18A and 20 of the UAPA. She pointed out that accused no.1, in whose name the tenancy of the first floor was shown, had been an active member of a banned terrorist organisation-the Student Islamic Movement of India (SIMI). CONSIDERATION OF SUBMISSIONS 4. The appellant was arrested on 12th July 2022. The Trial has not made any progress. The building Ahmad Palace stands in the name of the appellant’s wife. The appellant is a retired police constable. The allegation is that on 11th July 2022, in the evening, the police carried out a raid on the first floor premises of Ahmad Palace. At that time, there was a recovery and seizure of incriminating articles and documents relating to PFI. Paragraph 17.1 of the charge sheet reads thus: [2024] 8 S.C.R. 637 Jalaluddin Khan v. Union of India “17.1 Bihar Police had received information about a plan to disturb the proposed visit of Hon’ble Prime Minister to Bihar by some suspected persons who had assembled in Phulwarisharif area. On 11.07.2022 at about 1930 hrs, on secret information, a raid was carried out by the Police Officers of PS Phulwarisharif, Patna at the rented house/premises of Athar Parvej (A-1) and recovered 05 sets of document “India 2047 Towards Rule of Islamic India, Internal Document: Not for circulation”, Pamphlets “Popular front of India 20 February, 2021”- 25 copies in Hindi and 30 copies in Urdu, 49 cloth Flags, 02 magazines “Mulk ke liye Popular front ke saath” and one copy of rent agreement on non Judicial Stamp by Farhat Bano w/o Md Jalaluddin Khan (A-2) with tenant Athar Parvej (A-1) son of Abdul Qayum Ansari.