We do not think the 566 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports cases arising out of Section 197 of the 1973 Code would give proper guidance for interpreting the provision of Section 17A of the 1988 Act because, in the cases under Section 197, the decision on requirement for sanction is to be taken at the stage of taking cognizance. Thus, there is in-built scope of application of judicial mind to assess, at least prima-facie, if an alleged act falls within discharge of official duty or not. Under the provisions of Section 17A of the 1988 Act, there is no scope of judicial application of mind in determining if the flaw in making recommendation or taking decision is interwoven with discharge of official duty or function or not. Moreover, the qualified embargo therein is on a police officer. On the point as to assessing whether the offending act is in discharge of official duty or not, having regard to the nature of duties of a police officer, he is less equipped to assess that factor, which involves some form of judicial application of mind. No material has been placed before us to demonstrate that the concerned police officer had undertaken any exercise for prima facie forming his opinion as to whether the offence alleged against the appellant was relatable to any recommendation made or decision taken by the appellant in discharge of his official duty. Unlike in the case of Dr. S.M. Mansoori (supra), in which the offences involved, by their very nature, were prima facie not relatable to discharge of official duty by the accused, here the appellant’s actions relate to making recommendations or taking decisions and these decisions and recommendations otherwise, prima face, relate to discharge of official functions. In the case of State of Telangana -vs- Managipet alias Mangipet Sarveshwar Reddy [(2019) 19 SCC 87] the accused questioned the authorisation of the investigating officer in terms of Section 17 of the 1988 Act. This Court held :- “36. The High Court has rightly held that no ground is made out for quashing of the proceedings for the reason that the investigating agency intentionally waited till the retirement of the accused officer. The question as to whether a sanction is necessary to prosecute the accused officer, a retired public servant, is a question which can be examined during the course of the trial as held by this Court in K. Kalimuthu [K. Kalimuthu v. State, (2005) 4 SCC 512 : 2005 SCC (Cri) 1291] . In fact, in a recent in Vinod Kumar Garg v. State (NCT of Delhi) [Vinod Kumar Garg v. State (NCT of Delhi), (2020) 2 SCC 88 : (2020) [2024] 1 S.C.R. 567 Nara Chandrababu Naidu v. The State of Andhra Pradesh & Anr. 1 SCC (Cri) 545 : (2020) 1 SCC (L&S) 146] , this Court has held that if an investigation was not conducted by a police officer of the requisite rank and status required under Section 17 of the Act, such lapse would be an irregularity, however unless such irregularity results in causing prejudice, conviction will not be vitiated or be bad in law.