52. The counsel for the respondent(s) also drew our attention to Part II of the Lafarge Judgement (supra) relating to Guidelines to be followed in future cases dealing with disputes regarding what constitutes a forest, wherein it is stated that if the project proponent makes a claim regarding the status of the land being non-forest and if there is any doubt then the site shall be inspected by the State Forest Department along with the regional office of Ministry of Environment & Forest to ascertain the status of forest, based on which the certificate in this regard would be issued. In all such cases, it would be desirable for the representative of the State Forest Department to assist the Expert Appraisal Committee. In view of the above, if there is any doubt on the criteria for identification of forests, it is the State Forest Department and the Regional Office of Ministry of Environment, Forest & Climate Change, which would be the deciding authority. 53. The counsel on behalf of the respondent(s) lastly submits that the criteria for identifying the forests and the process therein by different States is under an of this Court dated 12.12.1996 in the TN Godavarman case (supra). This Court mandated that the State Government to evolve the criteria as per their local situation and considering the fact that Forest, being a concurrent subject, needs to be determined as such by the State Government for applicability of the FCA 1980. 54. In the light of the above submissions, learned counsel for the respondent(s) pray for dismissal of the appeals. DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS: 55. Having heard learned advocates appearing for the parties, we are of the considered view that the following points would arise for our consideration: 1. Whether the impugned of the tribunal requires to be affirmed or reversed? 2. Whether any further directions requires to be issued in the facts and circumstances? And if so, what directions or s? 3. What ? 726 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports RE: POINT NO.1 56. At the outset, it requires to be noticed that the High Court of Judicature at Bombay in Writ Petition No.162 of 1987, disposed of on 27.11.1990, had taken note of the guidelines issued for division of forest area for non-forest purposes under the FCA 1980 and pursuant to the same the State of Goa proposed certain criteria for identifying forest and the consequent application of the FCA 1980 to private forest. The then existing criteria are as follows: - i. 75% of the tree composition should be forestry species. ii. The area should be contiguous to the government forest and if in isolation the minimum area should be 5 (five) hectares; iii. The canopy density on the plot should not be less than 0.4. Subsequently, this Court in T.N. Godavarman Case (supra)23 vide dated 12.12.1996 directed the State Governments to constitute within 1 (one) month an Expert Committee to: - i. Identify the areas which are “forest”, irrespective of whether they are so notified, recognized or classified under any law and irrespective of ownership of the land of such forest; ii.