Firstly, it has been held that as per the University Grants Commission Act, 1956, a university can be established only by a statute (enacted either by the Parliament or a State Legislature) and a university can also be of a minority character. Also, that the university loses its minority character as soon as it is established by a statute. Therefore, there is inherent contradiction in the said . Secondly, while Azeez Basha [supra] recognizes the history, background and antecedent role that the MAO College played in building this institution, the bench, however, ignores it at the end in view of the existence of 1920 Act. The said history and background ought to be appreciated as has been done in case of St. Stephen’s [supra]. Thirdly, in this respect, Azeez Basha [supra] completely ignores the purpose of the 1920 Act. The said fails to correctly appreciate the salient features of the 1920 Act which demonstrate the minority character of Aligarh Muslim University. Furthermore, Azeez Basha [supra] adopts a very narrow construction of the word “establish” used in Article 30 of the Constitution and further, fails to give reasons to disregard other meanings of the said term. Lastly, Azeez Basha [supra] wrongly concludes that the educational institutions of the minorities converted into, and incorporated as, a university by a statute loses or seizes to retain its minority character. If a minority can establish a university under Article 30(1), and if universities are required to be incorporated under a statute for degrees to be recognised, then it must follow that the minority community is entitled to seek incorporation of its institution as a university. 38. Dr. Dhawan, relying upon the provisions of the 1920 Act, asserted that that it clearly demonstrates the Muslim character of the Aligarh Muslim University. It is further urged that the AMU is the alter ego of MAO College has been recognized by various provisions of the 1920 Act. Dr. Dhawan emphasized that the then Imperial Legislature 1932 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports had incorporated various provisions in the 1920 Act which are clearly intended for the benefit of the Muslim community. It is pointed out that the administration of AMU has been vested with the Muslim minority and that Muslim community had de jure and de facto control over the management of AMU. 39. Dr. Dhawan asserted that the law laid down in Azeez Basha [supra] ignored the earlier binding decisions of larger benches of this Hon’ble Court and therefore is, per incuram. These include the law laid down by a 7-judge bench in the case of In Re Kerala Education Bill, 1957, (1959) SCR 995 and also by a 6-judge bench in the case of Sidhajbhai Sabhai v. State of Bombay, (1963) 3 SCR 837. 40. Furthermore, in view of the subsequent decisions of this Hon’ble Court also, the law laid down in Azeez Basha [supra] does not hold the field anymore. Additionally, it is urged that so far as UGC Act and NCMEI Act (as amended in the year 2010) are concerned, Sections 2(f), 22 and 23 of the former Act read with Sections 2(g) and 10 of the latter Act indicate that a university can only be established by a statute and apart from them, only those institutions can confer degrees which have been declared as ‘deemed to be University’ under Section 3 of the UGC Act or which have been specifically empowered as such by an Act of Parliament.