The appellant has lower limb myopathy - a locomotor disability. The appellant has been an academic success. He secured an A1 grade in his matriculate (Class X) and intermediary (Class XII) examination held by the Central Board of Secondary Education. He aspires, now, to enter the medical profession. With this resolve, the appellant appeared for the NEET UG Examination 2024 on 5 May 2024 under the unreserved/ EWS-PwD category and secured 601 marks (out of a total marks of 720). This placed the appellant at an all India PwD rank of 84 and a State PwD rank of 4. Despite having a Disability Certificate 1 Poem translated from its original version in Marathi – written in the context of the tribal movement being co-opted by persons who claim to speak on their behalf while simultaneously othering them. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2193 Om Rathod v. The Director General of Health Services & Ors. dated 24 January 2021 which was to be valid until 2025 – the appellant submitted himself to the mandatory assessment to get his eligibility certified by a designated medical board at AIIMS, Nagpur. Appendix “H-1” of the Guidelines regarding admission of students with ‘Specified Disabilities’ under the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016 with respect to admission in MBBS Course prescribes that persons having over eighty percent disability may be admitted to a medical course on a case by case basis after assessing their functional competence to navigate academic and practical requirements. 3. The medical board at AIIMS, Nagpur comprised of an Associate Professor in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation; an Assistant Professor of Orthopaedics; and a Professor who was the Chairman of the Disability Board at AIIMS, Nagpur. The Board, by a NEET Disability Certificate dated 13 August 2024, opined that the appellant is 88% disabled and is therefore ineligible to pursue an MBBS/ Dental course. B. Pillar to post: scaling the ramparts of courts and hospitals 4. Aggrieved by this, the appellant filed a writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution before the Nagpur bench of the High Court of Judicature at Bombay, challenging the NEET Disability Certificate issued by AIIMS, Nagpur. The High Court by the impugned dated 3 September 2024 dismissed the writ petition and held that the certification of the degree of disability was in accordance with prescribed procedures. The appellant challenged the impugned by a petition for special leave before this Court under Article 136 of the Constitution. 5. On 3 October 2024, this Court directed the appellant to appear before a medical board at AIIMS, Delhi to reassess him keeping in mind the circular issued by the first respondent on 24 March 2022. The circular inter alia made mandatory directions to include a doctor or health professional with disability in every Disability Assessment Board. The appellant accordingly reported to AIIMS, Delhi at 11 AM on 5 October 2024. The five member board submitted its report dated 9 October 2024 inter alia finding that there were no changes in most disability components despite assistive devices.