The said statements in the said applications read with the other materials/ documents on record as also the reports of the Local Commissioner appointed by the National Commission, has led us to come to an irresistible conclusion that the inherent defect of overheating of the car in question had persisted despite the appellant having provided the rectification measures like providing additional insulation in the car, which had caused great inconvenience and discomfort to the passengers seated in the car in question. The advice given by the technical expert of the appellants that the overheated portions of the rear cabin of the car should be cooled by directing the draft from the air-conditioning vents towards the said portion, was not only an illogical advice but was an absolute improper advice given to conceal the defect in the car. 24. Considering the affidavits, correspondences, reports and the other material on record, we have no hesitation in holding that such [2024] 7 S.C.R. 435 M/s Daimler Chrysler India Pvt. Ltd. v. M/s Controls & Switchgear Company Ltd. & Anr. overheating of the surface of hump and the overall high temperature in the car was a fault, imperfection or shortcoming in the quality or standard which was expected to be maintained by the appellants under the contract with the respondent-complainant and therefore was a ‘defect’ within the meaning of Section 2(1)(f) of the said Act. 25. People do not purchase the high-end luxurious cars to suffer discomfort more particularly when they buy the vehicle keeping utmost faith in the supplier who would make the representations in the brochures or the advertisements projecting and promoting such cars as the finest and safest automobile in the world. The respondent-complainant having suffered great inconvenience, discomfort and also the waste of time and energy in pursuing the litigations, we are of the opinion that the impugned passed by the National Commission of awarding the compensation by directing the appellants to refund the purchase price i.e., Rs. 58 lakhs approx. to the respondent-complainant, and take back the car (vehicle) as such does not warrant any interference. However, at this juncture, it may be noted that the impugned was passed on 17.09.2007 and before that pending the proceedings, the appellant had already made an offer in the year 2006 to repurchase the car in question as per the market value of the car as of November 2006 to be Rs. 34 lakhs or at the book value of the car as of December 2006 to be about Rs. 36 lakhs, however the respondent had not agreed to the said proposal, and continued to use the said car for about seventeen years till this date. Therefore, having regard to the said offer made by the appellants, and having regard to the subsequent event of the respondent-complainant having retained and used the car in question for about seventeen years, we are of the opinion that the interest of justice and balance of equity would be met if the respondent-complainant is permitted to retain the car in question and the appellant is directed to refund Rs.