To declare that Article 39(b) includes the distribution of all private resources amounts to endorsing a particular economic ideology and structure for our economy. Justice Krishna Iyer’s in Ranganatha Reddy, which was followed inter alia in Sanjeev Coke and Bhim Singhji, was influenced by a particular school of economic thought. In essence, the interpretation of Article 39(b) adopted in these judgements is rooted in a particular economic ideology and the belief that an economic structure which prioritises the acquisition of private property by the state is beneficial for the nation. [Para 213] 7. The Constitution was framed in broad terms to allow succeeding governments to experiment with and adopt a structure for economic governance which would subserve the policies for which it owes accountability to the electorate. The role of this Court is not to lay down economic policy, but to facilitate this intent of the framers to lay down the foundation for an ‘economic democracy’. The doctrinal error in the Krishna Iyer approach was, postulating a rigid economic theory, which [2024] 11 S.C.R. 11 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. advocates for greater state control over private resources, as the exclusive basis for constitutional governance. The foresighted vision of our framers to establish an ‘economic democracy’ and trust the wisdom of the elected government, has been the backbone of the highgrowth rate of India’s economy, making it one of the fastest-growing economies in the world. To scuttle this constitutional vision by imposing a single economic theory, which views the acquisition of private property by the state as the ultimate goal, would undermine the very fabric and principles of our constitutional framework. [Paras 214, 215 and 216] 8. The right to property was included in the Constitution as a fundamental right under Articles 19(1)(f) and Article 31. Subsequently, the right to property was deleted from Part III of the Constitution by the Constitution (Forty-fourth Amendment) Act, 1978. However, a modified version was inserted and the right to property continues to be constitutionally protected under Article 300A. Although no longer in the nature of a fundamental right, the provision has been characterised as a constitutional and human right. The interpretation of Article 39(b), both as a pre-cursor to the protection of Article 31C and as an aspirational Directive Principle, cannot run counter to the constitutional recognition of private property. To hold that all private property is covered by the phrase “material resources of the community” and that the ultimate aim is state control of private resources would be incompatible with the constitutional protection. [Paras 217, 220] 9. A construction of Article 39(b) which provides that all private property is included within the ambit of Article 39(b) is incorrect. However, there is no bar on the inclusion of private property as a class and if a privately owned resource meets the qualifiers of being a ‘material resource’ and ‘of the community’, it may fall within the net of the provision. “Material resources of the community” refers to either natural resources (which are those of the nation) or those resources which in a large sense can be said to be of community, even though they may be in private hands.