do not disclose a cognizable offence, justifying an investigation by police officers under Section 156(1) of the Code except under an of a Magistrate within the purview of Section 155(2) of the Code; (3) where the uncontroverted allegations made in the FIR or complaint and the evidence collected in support of the same do not disclose the commission of any offence and make out a case against the accused; (4) where the allegations in the FIR do not constitute a cognizable offence but constitute only a non-cognizable offence, no investigation is permitted by a police officer without an of a Magistrate as contemplated under Section 155(2) of the Code; [2024] 6 S.C.R. 143 Achin Gupta v. State of Haryana & Anr. (5) where the allegations made in the FIR or complaint are so absurd and inherently improbable on the basis of which no prudent person can ever reach a just conclusion that there is sufficient ground for proceeding against the accused; (6) where there is an express legal bar engrafted in any of the provisions of the Code or the concerned Act (under which a criminal proceeding is instituted) to the institution and continuance of the proceedings and/or where there is a specific provision in the Code or the concerned Act, providing efficacious redress for the grievance of the aggrieved party; (7) where a criminal proceeding is manifestly attended with mala fide and/ or where the proceeding is maliciously instituted with an ulterior motive for wreaking vengeance on the accused and with a view to spite him due to private and personal grudge.” Further, Hon’ble Supreme Court in Neeharika Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. Vs. State of Maharashtra, 2021 SCC Online SC 315 has held that quashing of FIR is an exception rather than an ordinary rule and the High Court should exercise the powers under Section 482 Cr.P.C. sparingly with circumspection. Taking into consideration the above facts and circumstances of the present case in the light of the law settled, the present case does not fall in the category of cases for invoking the inherent powers under Section 482 Cr.P.C. The parameters laid down by the Hon’ble Supreme Court mandate that in a case where from the bare reading of the allegations in the FIR no cognizable offence is made out or it has been lodged to wreak the vengeance then the High Court may intervene. The veracity of the allegations 144 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports levelled by the complainant can be assessed only after a thorough investigation and thereafter by the Trial Court on the basis of the evidence led before it. Thus, this Court is of the opinion that the case of the petitioner does not qualify for exercising its jurisdiction under Section 482 Cr.P.C. Resultantly, the petition being devoid of any merit is hereby dismissed.” (Emphasis supplied) 11. In view of the aforesaid, the Appellant is before this Court with the present appeal. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE APPELLANT 12. Mr. Yusuf, the learned counsel appearing for the Appellant herein made the following submissions: - ● The Appellant and his family had filed a divorce petition and also a domestic violence case against the First Informant in 2019 and 2020 respectively.