These passages from the are quoted below:- “7. On 27 February 2017, after the viva-voce was conducted, the Administrative Committee of the High Court passed a resolution by which it decided to apply the same minimum cut-off marks which were prescribed for th e written examination as a qualifying criterion in the viva-voce. In coming to this conclusion, the Administrative Committee was of the view that since appointments were being made to the Higher Judicial Service, it was necessary to select candidates with a requisite personality and knowledge which could be ensured by prescribing a cut-off for the viva-voce in terms similar to the cut-off which was prescribed for the written examination. On 6 March 2017, the Full Court of the High Court of Kerala approved the resolution of the Administrative Committee. The final merit list of the successful candidates was also published on the same day. x x x 52. The statutory rule coupled with the scheme of examination and the 2015 examination notification would have generated an expectation in the petitioners that the merit list of selected candidates will be drawn on the basis of the aggregate of total marks received in the written examination and the viva voce. Moreover, the petitioners would have expected no minimum cutoff for the viva voce in view of the express stipulation in the scheme of examination. Both the above expectations of the petitioners are legitimate as they are based on the sanction of statutory rules, scheme of examination, and the 2015 examination notification issued by the High Court. Thus, the High Court lawfully committed itself to preparing a merit list of successful candidates on the basis of the total marks obtained in the written examination and the viva voce. 228 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports ii. Whether the High Court has acted unlawfully in relation to its commitment? 53. The Administrative Committee of the High Court apprehended that a candidate who performed well in the written examination, even though they fared badly in the viva voce, would get selected to the post of District and Sessions Judge. The Administrative Committee observed that recruitment of such candidates would be a disservice to the public at large because they possessed only “bookish” knowledge and lacked practical wisdom. To avoid such a situation, the Administrative Committee of the High Court decided to apply a minimum cut-off to the viva voce examination. The decision of the Administrative Committee was approved by the Full Bench of the High Court. 54. The Constitution vests the High Courts with the authority to select judicial officers in their jurisdictions. The High Court, being a constitutional and public authority, has to bear in the mind the principles of good administration while performing its administrative duties. The principles of good administration require that the public authorities should act in a fair, consistent, and predictable manner. 55. The High Court submitted that frustration of the petitioner’s substantive legitimate expectation was in larger public interest – selecting suitable candidates with practical wisdom for the post of District Judges.