Furthermore, where for a brief period, in the facts of that case, private practice by teaching post-holders was also permitted and then withdrawn, this Court held that such an extension was only a privilege extended on people who were regulated by the relevant Act and rules made thereunder and therefore, the revocation of that privilege was not the violation of any right. 29. Where public interest was the genesis of a privilege being extended to Chartered Accountants and not a right, it is reasonable that the respondent-Institute, an expert body, would have the authority to regulate the privilege extended to Chartered Accountants in a reasonable manner deemed appropriate to serve public interest. That the public interest involved in the present petitions being pervasive is evidenced through CAG’s recommendation to the Government to insert a provision in the statute book putting a cap on the number of tax audits permissible. According to the CAG, in the matter of revenue, the IT Act, 1961 should have provision to prescribe for quality of tax audit assignments rather than relying on respondent-Institute. 30. It would be apposite at this juncture to refer to the in P.V. Sivarajan vs. Union of India, AIR 1959 SC 556, (“P.V. Sivarajan”), delivered by a Constitution Bench of this Court. Petitioner therein was aggrieved by the rejection of his application as a registered exporter of coir products, on the ground that he had not already exported the minimum specified quantity of 500 Cwts. It was observed by this Court that Parliament had enacted the Coir Industry Act, 1953, finding it expedient in public interest that the Union should take under its control the coir industry as several malpractices had crept in the export trade such as non-fulfilment of contracts, supplying goods of inferior quality in an industry crucial to the repute of India’s products and national economy. With the intent of limiting these losses due to qualitative underperformance, the Central Government, under powers conferred by the statute, framed Rules in 1958. The Rules were assailed by the petitioner therein, contending that they erroneously prescribed a quantitative test for registration of established exporters, when in fact, a qualitative test would be more suitable. This argument was rejected, holding that once it is accepted that regulation of coir industry is in public interest, then it would be erroneous to assert that 850 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports regulation must be introduced only on the basis of a qualitative test. This Court was mindful of the potential difficulties in introducing and effectively enforcing a qualitative test and thereby held that it would be for the rule-making authority to decide as to which test would meet the requirements of public interest and what method would be most expedient in controlling the industry for national good. This Court noted as under: “7. If it is conceded that the regulation of the coir industry is in the public interest, then it would be difficult to entertain the argument that the regulation or control must be introduced only on the basis of a qualitative test.