1824 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Corporate Debtor, who purportedly hold 16.75% of its issued and the paid-up share capital. These shareholders have also instituted proceedings under Sections 241, 242 and 244 of the Companies Act 2013 for oppression and mismanagement against the erstwhile management of the Corporate Debtor, including the first respondent and Riju Raveendran. The counsel for the intervenors advanced submissions broadly on the same lines as the appellant. They assailed the acceptance of the settlement agreement by the NCLAT and contended that insolvency proceedings against the Corporate Debtor are inevitable. D. Legal Background i. Legal context and fundamental principles a. General principles underlying the IBC 34. Before delving into the provisions which constitute the legal framework for the withdrawal of CIRP, it is crucial to delineate some of the underlying aims and objectives which guide the IBC. These principles will assume relevance while analyzing the locus of the appellant and the course of action adopted by the NCLAT in the Impugned Judgement. 35. The Statement of Objects and Reasons for the IBC reads as follows: “Statement of Objects and Reasons.—There is no single law in India that deals with insolvency and bankruptcy. Provisions relating to insolvency and bankruptcy for companies can be found in the Sick Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Act, 1985, the Recovery of Debts Due to Banks and Financial Institutions Act, 1993, the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002 and the Companies Act, 2013. These statutes provide for creation of multiple fora such as Board of Industrial and Financial Reconstruction (BIFR), Debts Recovery Tribunal (DRT) and National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) and their respective Appellate Tribunals. Liquidation of companies is handled by the High Courts. Individual bankruptcy and insolvency is dealt with under the Presidency Towns Insolvency Act, 1909, and the Provincial Insolvency [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1825 GLAS Trust Company LLC v. BYJU Raveendran & Ors. Act, 1920 and is dealt with by the courts. The existing framework for insolvency and bankruptcy is inadequate, ineffective and results in undue delays in resolution, therefore, the proposed legislation. 2.The objective of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2015 is to consolidate and amend the laws relating to reorganisation and insolvency resolution of corporate persons, partnership firms and individuals in a time- bound manner for maximisation of value of assets of such persons, to promote entrepreneurship, availability of credit and balance the interests of all the stakeholders including alteration in the priority of payment of government dues and to establish an Insolvency and Bankruptcy Fund, and matters connected therewith or incidental thereto. An effective legal framework for timely resolution of insolvency and bankruptcy would support development of credit markets and encourage entrepreneurship. It would also improve Ease of Doing Business, and facilitate more investments leading to higher economic growth and development. […] 5. The Code seeks to achieve the above objectives.’” 36. The long title of the IBC provides that it is “an Act to consolidate and amend the laws relating to reorganisation and insolvency resolution of corporate persons, partnership firms and individuals in a time bound manner for maximisation of value of assets of such persons, to promote entrepreneurship, availability of credit and balance the interests of all the stakeholders including alteration in the of priority of payment of Government dues and to establish an Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India, and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.” 37.