[2024] 8 S.C.R. 949 : 2024 INSC 594 In Re: of Punjab and Haryana High Court dated 17.07.2024 and Ancillary Issues (Suo Motu Writ (Civil) No. 8 of 2024) 07 August 2024 [Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud,* CJI, Sanjiv Khanna, B.R. Gavai, Surya Kant and Hrishikesh Roy, JJ.] Issue for Consideration Whether gratuitous observations passed by a Judge of a High Court regarding previous s of the Supreme Court, undermine the authority of the Supreme Court and should therefore be expunged? Headnotes† Suo moto proceedings initiated by Supreme Court – Observations made in an by Judge of the High Court of Punjab and Haryana on the Supreme Court found to be a matter of grave concern – Totally unnecessary for the ultimate passed – Gratuitous observations on previous s passed by the Supreme Court or for that matter in the course of the same proceedings absolutely unwarranted – Observations to be expunged from the – Greater caution to be exercised in the future while dealing with s of the Supreme Court and by the Division Bench of the High Court: Held: 1. In an dated 17.01.2024, a Judge of the High Court of Punjab and Haryana made certain observations regarding the Supreme Court of India – These observations were found to be a matter of grave concern and totally unnecessary for the ultimate passed – Held that such observations tend to bring the entire judicial machinery into disrepute, and affects not only the dignity of the Supreme Court, but of the High Courts as well – Necessity of judicial discipline and respect for the hierarchical structure of the judiciary underscored – Intended to preserve the dignity of all institutions, whether at the level of District, High Court or Supreme Court. [Paras 4 and 6] 2. Compliance with s passed by the Supreme Court is not a matter of choice, but a matter of bounden constitutional obligation, given the structure of the Indian legal system and the authority of * Author 950 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the Supreme Court which heads the process of judicial adjudication of the country. [Para 4] 3. Plain function of the Supreme Court to set right any attempt to dislocate the sanctity of judicial authority and maintenance of judicial discipline – Observations made by Judge in dated 17.07.2024 expunged – Greater caution expected to be exercised in the future while dealing with s of the Supreme Court and of the Division Bench of the High Court. [Para 8] 4. Whether individual judges are in agreement with the merits or otherwise of an passed by a superior court is beside the point – Every Judge is bound by the discipline which the hierarchical nature of the judicial system imposes within the system – No Judge is personally affected by the s passed either by the Division Bench of the High Court or, as the case may be, by the Supreme Court. [Para 8] 5. In an age where there is widespread reporting of every Court proceeding, particularly in the context of live streaming which is intended to provide access to justice to citizens, it is all the more necessary that Judges should exercise due restraint and responsibility in the observations which are made in the course of proceedings sanctity of judicial process can be caused incalculable harm.