Section 63 along with the illustrations is reproduced hereinbelow: [2024] 7 S.C.R. 863 SBI General Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Krish Spinning “63. Promisee may dispense with or remit performance of promisee.—Every promisee may dispense with or remit, wholly or in part, the performance of the promisee made to him, or may extend the time for such performance, or may accept instead of it any satisfaction which he thinks fit. Illustrations (a) A promises to paint a picture for B. B afterwards forbids him to do so. A is no longer bound to perform the promise. (b) A owes B 5,000 rupees. A pays to B, and B accepts, in satisfaction of the whole debt, 2,000 rupees paid at the time and place at which the 5,000 rupees were payable. The whole debt is discharged. (c) A owes B 5,000 rupees. C pays to B 1,000 rupees, and B accepts them, in satisfaction of his claim on A. This payment is a discharge of the whole claim. (d) A owes B, under. a contract, a sum of money, the amount of which has not been ascertained. A, without ascertaining the amount, gives to B, and B, in satisfaction thereof, accepts, the sum of 2,000 rupees. This is a discharge of the whole debt, whatever may be its amount. (e) A owes B 2,000 rupees, and is also indebted to other creditors. A makes an arrangement with his creditors, including B, to pay them a [composition] of eight annas in the rupee upon their respective demands. Payment to B of 1,000 rupees is a discharge of B’s demand.” (Emphasis supplied) 43. The Privy Council in Payana Reena Saminathan v. Pana Lana Palaniappa reported in (1913-14) 41 IA 142 defined the term “accord and satisfaction” as follows: “… The ‘receipt’ given by the appellants and accepted by the respondent, and acted on by both parties proves conclusively that all the parties agreed to a settlement of all their existing disputes by the arrangement formulated 864 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports in the ‘receipt’. It is a clear example of what used to be well known as common law pleading as ‘accord and satisfaction by a substituted agreement’. No matter what were the respective rights of the parties inter se they are abandoned in consideration of the acceptance by all for a new agreement. The consequence is that when such an accord and satisfaction takes place the prior rights of the parties are extinguished. They have in fact been exchanged for the new rights; and the new agreement becomes a new departure, and the rights of all the parties are fully represented by it.” (Emphasis supplied) 44. As discussed in the preceding paragraphs, the appellant has contested that once a full and final settlement was arrived at between the parties, the insurance contract between the parties could be said to have been discharged. Once the contract stood discharged, it was not open to the respondent to resile from the settlement and invoke the arbitration clause, as no obligations remained to be fulfilled under the contract pursuant to the discharge of the contract.