591 State of Maharashtra & Ors. v. Pradeep Yashwant Kokade & Anr. in confirmation of the death sentence should not be considered. K. Jagannatha Shetty, J, rendered a concurring opinion. In paragraphs 75 and 76 of his opinion, it was observed thus: “75. As between funeral fire and mental worry, it is the latter which is more devastating, for, funeral fire burns only the dead body while the mental worry burns the living one. This mental torment may become acute when the judicial verdict is finally set against the accused. Earlier to it, there is every reason for him to hope for acquittal. That hope is extinguished after the final verdict. If, therefore, there is inordinate delay in execution, the condemned prisoner is entitled to come to the court requesting to examine whether it is just and fair to allow the sentence of death to be executed. 76. What should be done by the court is the next point for consideration. It is necessary to emphasise that the jurisdiction of the court at this stage is extremely limited. If the court wants to have a look at the grievance as to delay, it is needless to state, that there should not be any delay either in listing or in disposal of the matter. The person who complains about the delay in the execution should not be put to further delay. The matter, therefore, must be expeditiously and on top priority basis, disposed of. The court while examining the matter, for the reasons already stated, cannot take into account the time utilised in the judicial proceedings up to the final verdict. The court also cannot take into consideration the time taken for disposal of any petition filed by or on behalf of the accused either under Article 226 or under Article 32 of the Constitution after the final affirming the conviction and sentence. The court may only consider whether there was undue long delay in disposing of mercy petition; whether the State was guilty of dilatory conduct and whether the delay was for no reason at all. The inordinate delay, may be a significant factor, but that by itself cannot render the execution unconstitutional. Nor it can be divorced from the dastardly and diabolical circumstances of the crime itself. The court has still to consider as observed in Sher Singh case [(1983) 2 SCC 592 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 344 : 1983 SCC (Cri) 461 : (1983) 2 SCR 582] : [SCR p. 596 : SCC p. 357 : SCC (Cri) p. 474, para 20]” (emphasis added) 21. Thereafter, a Bench of three Hon’ble Judges in the case of Shatrughan Chauhan & Anr.4 dealt with the same issue. Paragraphs 44 to 49 of the decision are material, which read thus: “44. In view of the above, we hold that undue long delay in execution of sentence of death will entitle the condemned prisoner to approach this Court under Article 32. However, this Court will only examine the circumstances surrounding the delay that has occurred and those that have ensued after the sentence was finally confirmed by the judicial process.