The policy statements cannot be disregarded unfairly or applied selectively. Unfairness in the form of unreasonableness is akin to violation of natural justice.”” (Emphasis supplied) 79. We may also remind the respondents of one another decision of this Court in Ramana Dayaram Shetty v. International Airport Authority of India & Ors. reported in AIR 1979 SC 1628 wherein it was held that an executive authority must be rigorously held to the standard by which it professes its actions to be judged. The relevant observations read as under: - "10. [...] It is a well-settled rule of administrative law that an executive authority must be rigorously held to the standards by which it professes its actions to be judged and it must scrupulously observe those standards on pain of invalidation of an act in violation of them. [...]” (Emphasis supplied) 80. Once the respondents have themselves initiated a public consultation process for amending the MMDR Act to inter-alia address the aforementioned anomaly in computation of royalty, they must take a prompt decision in this regard. Merely because it has the discretion to take such policy decision does not mean that it can endlessly keep on prolonging the decision-making process whereby the very discretion is rendered ad-lib and the issue in itself a forgone conclusion. 81. Before, we close this matter, we must make a reference to the decision in Narottam Kishore Deb Varman v. Union of India, reported in (1964) 7 SCR 55 wherein this Court was called upon to decide a batch of petitions challenging the validity of Section 87B of the Code [2024] 12 S.C.R. 105 Kirloskar Ferrous Industries Limited & Anr v. Union of India & Ors. of Civil Procedure, 1908. In the said decision, although this Court stopped short from holding the provision as unconstitutional yet it called upon the government to examine if the provision was to be allowed to continue for all times to come. It further observed that the considerations on which the validity of the provision is founded will wear out with the passage of time and may later become open to a serious challenge. The relevant observations read as under: - "11. Before we part with this matter, however, we would like to invite the Central Government to consider seriously whether it is necessary to allow Section 87-B to operate prospectively for all time. The agreements made with the Rulers of Indian States may, no doubt, have to be accepted and the assurances given to them may have to be observed. But considered broadly in the light of the basic principle of the equality before law, it seems somewhat odd that Section 87-B should continue to operate for all time. For past dealings and transactions, protection may justifiably be given to Rulers of former Indian States; but the Central Government may examine the question as to whether for transactions subsequent to 26th of January, 1950, this protection need or should be continued. If under the Constitution all citizens are equal, it may be desirable to confine the operation of Section 87-B to past transactions and not to perpetuate the anomaly of the distinction between the rest of the citizens and Rulers of former Indian States.