Clause (3) of Article 105 of the Constitution cannot, therefore, be invoked by the appellants to claim immunity from prosecution in respect of the charge levelled against them. 55. […] In the earlier part of the we have found that for the past more than 100 years legislators in Australia and Canada are liable to be prosecuted for bribery in connection with their legislative activities and, with the exception of the United Kingdom, most of the Commonwealth countries treat corruption and bribery by Members of the legislature as a criminal offence. In the United Kingdom also there is a move to change the law in this regard. There appears to be no reason why legislators in India should be beyond the pale of laws governing bribery and corruption when all other public functionaries are subject to such laws. We are, therefore, unable to uphold the above contention of Shri Thakur.” (emphasis supplied) The majority , on the other hand, makes a reference to Bunting (supra) but chooses to not rely on the or any other by Canadian courts placed on record in the case. 159. Another interesting line of jurisprudence, expanded by the Supreme Court of Canada after the decision in PV Narasimha Rao (supra), is relevant to answer the question before this Court. While dealing with the remit of parliamentary privilege, the Supreme Court of Canada has adopted the test of ‘necessity’ in a formulation similar to the test [2024] 3 S.C.R. 565 Sita Soren v. Union of India formulated in Part F of this . In this regard, the landmark decision of the Supreme Court of Canada in Canada (House of Commons) v. Vaid,77 may be noted in some detail. 160. In the above case, the former Speaker of the House of Commons was accused of dismissing his chauffeur for reasons that allegedly constituted workplace discrimination under the Canadian Human Rights Act, 1985. This was resisted by the House of Commons which contended that such an inquiry constituted an encroachment on parliamentary privilege and the hiring and firing of House employees are “internal affairs” which may not be questioned or reviewed by any tribunal or court apart from the House itself. The court did not accept this contention. 161. The Supreme Court of Canada held that legislative bodies do not constitute enclaves shielded from the ordinary law of the land. The party that seeks to rely on immunity under the broader umbrella of parliamentary privilege has the onus of establishing its existence. In Canada, the House of Commons in the UK is used as the benchmark to determine the existence of parliamentary privilege. Therefore, to determine whether a privilege does in fact exist, the first step is to scrutinize if it is authoritatively established in relation to the Canadian Parliament or the House of Commons. If the existence is not established, the doctrine of necessity is to be applied to determine if the act is protected by parliamentary privilege. In essence, the legislature or the member seeking immunity must prove that the activity for which privilege is claimed is closely and directly connected with the fulfilment by the legislature of its functions and that external interference would impact the autonomy required for the assembly to carry out its functions with “dignity and efficiency”.