In addition, Annexure-III of the said protocol includes, inter alia, the general principles of risk assessment. It states that risk assessment should be carried out in a scientifically sound and transparent manner and implores states to take into account expert advice as well as guidelines developed by relevant international organizations. Further, Article 21(6) of [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1971 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. the said Protocol prescribes that the information about the risk assessment cannot be kept confidential. 8.2 That the United Nations Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD), 1992, to which India is a party, inter alia, requires that the contracting parties shall domestically regulate or manage the risks associated with the use and release of Living Modified Organisms (LMOs) resulting from Biotechnology and which are likely to have adverse environmental impacts and risks to human health. It also implores states to introduce appropriate procedures to require impact assessment of proposed projects likely to have significant adverse effects on biodiversity and to allow public participation in the procedure. 8.3 That in addition to implementing a moratorium on the release of any GMO into the domestic environment until adequate biosafety tests demonstrate safety beyond reasonable doubt, labelling for imports sourced from countries which produce GM crops and foods should be mandated. Therefore, both moratorium and labelling must be concurrent mandatory requirements. 8.4 That farmers have the right to save seed for sowing in the next season, which a patent-based regime of GM seeds will effectively deny. This choice is a fundamental right and must be retained as such for better farming prospects and livelihoods. Therefore, the petitioner has sought the aforesaid reliefs. Writ Petition (Civil) No.840 of 2016: 8.5 The petitioner is stated to be a public-spirited citizen based in Chennai and is involved in a consumer movement in Tamil Nadu called ‘Safe Food Alliance’. The petitioner is stated to be one of the National Convenors of Alliance for Sustainable and Holistic Agriculture (ASHA), which is an organization that has been actively involved in the cause of the genetic modification of crops and its effects on human health. 8.6 It is averred by the petitioner that in September 2015, the Centre for Genetic Manipulation of Crop Plants (CGMCP) submitted an application to GEAC, seeking approval for the environmental release of GE mustard hybrid (DMH-11) seeds and the use of parental events, i.e., Varuna bn 3.6 and EH-2 modbs 2.99, for 1972 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports development of new generation hybrids. Upon receipt of the application, GEAC, in its 125th meeting held on 11.12.2015, appraised the same and decided that the CGMCP will be invited to give a presentation before GEAC in the subsequent meeting. Pursuant to the same, the CGMCP made a presentation before GEAC in the 126th meeting held on 04.01.2016 and the CGMCP was directed to furnish clarifications with respect to some issues in para 3.3 of the Minutes of the Meeting. It was further decided in the meeting that a sub-committee would be constituted under the chairmanship of Dr. K. Veluthambi, Co-Chair of GEAC, and the said sub-committee would have the duty of examining the issues raised by GEAC in para 3.3 and submit a report with recommendations to GEAC.