x. Section 5 r/w Section 4 (2) of Cr.P.C. itself contemplates that nothing contained in the Code of 1973 would apply or affect any special law in force regulating the manner of place of investigation, inquiring into or dealing with such special offences. xi. There was no illegality in summoning the Appellant No. 2 to New Delhi, as according to the ED the proceeds of crime had travel to New Delhi, which would be the area in which part of the offence has been allegedly committed. xii. Section 50 of PMLA is gender neutral as it does not make any distinction between a man and a woman. The Court cannot carve out an exception in favour of women in Section 50, when there is none. Whenever the legislature felt the need to carve out an exception in favour of women, it has done so as evident from the proviso to Section 45 of PMLA. Therefore, there cannot be any presumption that a casus omissus exists in Section 50. 11. For the sake of convenience, let us refer to some of the provisions of Cr.P.C and PMLA, relevant for the purpose of deciding these Appeals, as also relied upon by the learned counsels for the parties. Relevant Provisions of Cr.P.C. : 4. Trial of offences under the Indian Penal Code and other laws. — (1) All offences under the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860) shall be investigated, inquired into, tried, and otherwise dealt with according to the provisions hereinafter contained. (2) All offences under any other law shall be investigated, inquired into, tried, and otherwise dealt with according to the same provisions, but subject to any enactment for the time being in force regulating the manner or place of investigating, inquiring into, trying or otherwise dealing with such offences. 5. Saving. —Nothing contained in this Code shall, in the absence of a specific provision to the contrary, affect any 122 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports special or local law for the time being in force, or any special jurisdiction or power conferred, or any special form of procedure prescribed, by any other law for the time being in force. 91. Summons to produce document or other thing. — (1) Whenever any Court or any officer in charge of a police station considers that the production of any document or other thing is necessary or desirable for the purposes of any investigation, inquiry, trial or other proceeding under this Code by or before such Court or officer, such Court may issue a summons, or such officer a written , to the person in whose possession or power such document or thing is believed to be, requiring him to attend and produce it, or to produce it, at the time and place stated in the summons or . (2) Any person required under this section merely to produce a document or other thing shall be deemed to have complied with the requisition if he causes such document or thing to be produced instead of attending personally to produce the same.