In our considered view, such an approach would not be in line with the dictum as laid by this Court while upholding the Constitutionality of Sections 18 and 18-A respectively of the Act, 1989. 52. Having said so, we would also like to state that the case at hand is of a unique nature and one that falls in a separate category. With the advent of internet and social media, cases like the one we are dealing with are likely to come up more frequently. In the present case, the basis of the FIR is the YouTube video and some other digital materials alleged to have been published by the appellant in the public domain. It is not the case of the complainant that the appellant subjected him to insults or humiliations in some public gathering, the details of which can only be gathered by recording the statements of witnesses. The entire incriminatory material based upon which the complaint came to be lodged was available in the public domain by virtue of having been uploaded on social media platforms. We had the occasion to threadbare go through the transcript of the YouTube video. We may only say that in cases like the one in hand, the courts should have the discretion to look into the materials based upon which the complaint has been registered, in addition to verifying the averments made in the complaint. If on a prima facie reading of the materials referred to in the complaint and the complaint itself, the ingredients necessary for constituting the offence are not made out, then the bar of Section 18 would not be applicable and it would be open to the courts to consider the plea for the grant pre-arrest bail on its own merits. [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1133 Shajan Skaria v. The State of Kerala & Anr. iv. Whether the averments in the FIR/complaint in question disclose commission of any offence under Section 3(1)(r) of the Act, 1989? 53. It is the case of the complainant as well as the State that considering the rash and derogatory statements alleged to have been made by the appellant herein, he could be said to have prima facie committed the offence under Sections 3(1)(r) and 3(1)(u) respectively of the Act, 1989. 54. We shall first proceed to examine whether the necessary ingredients to constitute the offence under Section 3(1)(r) of the Act, 1989 are prima face disclosed on a plain reading of the FIR. Section 3(1)(r) reads thus: “Section 3 of the Act 1989: Punishments for offences of atrocities.— [(1) Whoever, not being a member of a Scheduled Caste or a Scheduled Tribe,— XXX XXX XXX (r) intentionally insults or intimidates with intent to humiliate a member of a Scheduled Caste or a Scheduled Tribe in any place within public view;” (Emphasis supplied) 55. The basic ingredients to constitute the offence under Section 3(1) (r) of the Act, 1989 are: a. Accused person must not be a member of the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe; b.