26. Existing Institutional Governance of the Environment in India: Environmental regulation in our country is performed by various bodies constituted under legislations concerning the environment, forests, and wildlife. Governance is also through the exercise of executive power by the Central and State Governments. These bodies perform their function of regulating private and public activities that impact the environment, forests, and wildlife in accordance with environmental legislations, rules, regulations, and notifications passed under them. An overview of some of the main bodies that regulate the environment in India can be encapsulated as follows: i. Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) and State Pollution Control Boards (SPCB): These Boards were initially constituted under the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974.35 They also function under the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981.36 The function of the CPCB under these Acts is to promote cleanliness of water streams and wells and to improve air quality and combat air pollution. In furtherance of these functions, the Board advises the Central Government, coordinates activities of states, provides technical assistance to SPCBs, lays down standards, and performs any other function as may be prescribed. The SPCBs perform similar functions by advising the State Governments on matters concerning air and water pollution.37 35 Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974, ss. 3 and 4. 36 Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act 1981, ss. 3 and 4. 37 Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974, ss. 16 and 17; Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act 1981, ss. 16 and 17. 1212 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports ii. Authorities concerning protection of wildlife under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972: The Central Government appoints a Director of Wild Life Preservation and the State Government appoints Chief Wild Life Wardens, Wild Life Wardens, and Honorary Wild Life Wardens.38 The Central Government shall constitute the National Board for Wild Life to promote the conservation and development of wildlife and forests.39 The National Board can frame policies and advise the Central and State Governments on promoting wildlife conservation and effectively controlling poaching and illegal trade; recommend setting up and managing national parks and sanctuaries; conduct impact assessment of activities on wildlife; review progress of wildlife conservation; and prepare and publish status reports on wildlife in the country.40 Similarly, State Board(s) for Wild Life must also be constituted under the Act for selecting and managing protected areas; formulating policies for protection and conservation of wildlife; harmonising the needs of tribals and forest dwellers with wildlife conservation; and any other matter referred to it by the State Governments.41 The Central Government must constitute the Central Zoo Authority that regulates the functioning of zoos by laying down minimum standards, recognition and derecognition, maintaining records, coordinating personnel training, and providing assistance.42 The Central Government must also constitute the National Tiger Conservation Authority under the Act,43 whose powers and functions have been set out in Section 38O. iii. The Central Government constitutes the Advisory Committee under the Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980 to advise the Central Government on the grant of approval for State Government’s use of forest land for non-forest purposes and on any other matter connected with forest conservation which may be referred to it by the Central Government.44 38 Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, ss.