The Department of Health Research 2000 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports has accorded its approval for commercial release without scrutinising any indigenous study. Only acute and sub-chronic studies have been conducted but chronic and transgenerational studies have not been conducted, therefore, risking the health of future generations. 13. As is well-settled, the Parliamentary Select Committees are entities through which Parliament scrutinises the policies and actions of the Government and enforces executive accountability. Select Committees are constituted with specifically nominated Members of Parliament and exercise the authority delegated by the House. The role of Select Committees has been outlined in Erskine May’s Treatise on The Law, Privileges, Proceedings and Usage of Parliament, (Lexis Nexis, 24th Edn. 2011, p.37.] as under: “Select Committees are appointed by the House to perform a wide range of functions on the House’s behalf. Most notably they have become over recent years the principal mechanism by which the House discharges its responsibilities for the scrutiny of government policy and actions. Increasingly this scrutiny work has become the most widely recognised and public means by which Parliament holds Government Ministers and their departments to account.” 13.1 Parliamentary material, such as the reports submitted by Select Committees, is an aid to the construction of legislation, as such material may disclose the legislative intention lying behind the ambiguous words and expressions, vide Pepper (Inspector of Taxes) vs. Hart, 1992 UKHL 3 (HL) (“Pepper”). Noting the evolution of Indian law, Justice G.P. Singh, in Principles of Statutory Interpretation (14th Edn. ), has stated that this Court has pressed the parliamentary materials as an aid in resolving questions of construction. This Court has clarified that courts may seek recourse to background parliamentary material, including a statement of position by the Government, to understand the reasons of the enactment of a law and the problems sought to be remedied vide Kalpana Mehta vs. Union of India, (2018) 7 SCC 1 (“Kalpana Mehta”). [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2001 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. 13.2 The pertinent facts in Kalpana Mehta were that a writ petitioner, who had challenged the grant of approval to an HPV (Human Papilloma Virus) vaccine by the Drugs Controller General of India, had invited the attention of this Court to a report of the PSC and this Court had directed the Government to file an affidavit about the status of compliance with the contents of the report. At that stage, the State and private respondents raised doubts about the appropriateness of adverting to a report of the PSC while exercising jurisdiction under Article 32 in a public interest litigation. Therefore, the core question raised therein that came to be referred to the Constitution Bench was whether a PSC report can be placed reliance upon for adjudication of a fact in issue and also for what other purposes it can be taken aid of. 13.3 It was concluded that the reports of the Parliamentary Committee can be relied upon to adduce the position adopted by the Government.