The of Gurdwara Sahib Vs. Gram Panchayat Village Sirthala and Another (supra) has now been expressly overruled by a Three Judge Bench in Ravinder Kaur Grewal and Others Vs. Manjit Kaur and Others, (2019) 8 SCC 729. This Court held in the above case in paragraph 62 that once 12 years’ period of adverse possession is over, even owner’s right to eject him is lost and the possessory owner acquires right, title and interest possessed by the outgoing person/owner. 11. In para 62, following has been laid down: (Ravinder Kaur Grewal case, SCC pp.778-78) “62. We hold that a person in possession cannot be ousted by another person except by due procedure of law and [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1227 Mukesh v. The State of Madhya Pradesh & Anr. once 12 years’ period of adverse possession is over, even owner’s right to eject him is lost and the possessory owner acquires right, title and interest possessed by the outgoing person/owner as the case may be against whom he has prescribed. In our opinion, consequence is that once the right, title or interest is acquired it can be used as a sword by the plaintiff as well as a shield by the defendant within ken of Article 65 of the Act and any person who has perfected title by way of adverse possession, can file a suit for restoration of possession in case of dispossession. In case of dispossession by another person by taking law in his hand a possessory suit can be maintained under Article 64, even before the ripening of title by way of adverse possession. By perfection of title on extinguishment of the owner’s title, a person cannot be remediless. In case he has been dispossessed by the owner after having lost the right by adverse possession, he can be evicted by the plaintiff by taking the plea of adverse possession. Similarly, any other person who might have dispossessed the plaintiff having perfected title by way of adverse possession can also be evicted until and unless such other person has perfected title against such a plaintiff by adverse possession. Similarly, under other articles also in case of infringement of any of his rights, a plaintiff who has perfected the title by adverse possession, can sue and maintain a suit.” 12. In para 61, this Court has expressly overruled the Gurdwara Sahib Vs. Gram Panchayat Village Sirthala and Another (supra). 13. In view of the pronouncement of this Court by the three- Judge Bench in Ravinder Kaur Grewal v. Manjit Kaur [(2019) 8 SCC 729: (2019) 4 SCC (Civ) 453], the very basis of the High Court for holding that compromise deed dated 4-10-1985 requires registration is knocked out. The present is not a case where there is any allegation that the decree dated 4-10-1985 is a collusive decree. The decree dated 4-10-1985 was in favour of the plaintiff of 7 biswa land, Survey No. 203 and for remaining land of Survey No. 203, it was held that it belonged to the defendants.