34. The 2019 reference also limits the reference to the legal aspects arising from the decision in Azeez Basha (supra) and not the factual aspects of the decision relating to AMU. This is clear from the passages from the 2019 reference extracted above, particularly paragraphs 8 and 9. Paragraph 8 states that the correctness of the “question arising from” Azeez Basha (supra) has “remained undetermined”. The paragraph indicates that the 2019 reference must be read along with the previous references in both Anjuman-e-Rahmaniya (supra) and TMA Pai Foundation (supra). Paragraph 9 mentions that the correctness of the view in Azeez Basha (supra) “which has been extracted above” requires an authoritative pronouncement. The paragraph from Azeez Basha (supra) extracted in the 2019 reference deals with the question of indicia to be considered a minority educational institution. It is evident upon a reading of the reference s that only the question of the criteria to be fulfilled to qualify as a minority educational institution is referred to this Bench. 35. From the in Anjuman-e-Rahmaniya (supra) referring the in Azeez Basha (supra) to a larger Bench, the question formulated in TMA Pai (supra) and the 2019 Reference , the question that must be decided by this Bench is what are the ingredients, indicia or criteria for an educational institution to be considered a minority educational institution under Article 30. The following issues must be answered for this purpose: a. Whether an educational institution must be both established and administered by a linguistic or religious minority to secure the guarantee under Article 30; b. What are the criteria to be satisfied for the ‘establishment’ of a minority institution? Whether Article 30(1) envisages an 1702 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports institution which is established by a minority with participation from members of other communities; c. Whether a minority educational institution which is registered as a society under the Societies Registration Act 186020 soon after its establishment loses its status as a minority educational institution by virtue of such registration; and d. Whether the decision of this Court in Prof. Yashpal v. State of Chhattisgarh21 and the amendment of National Commission for Minority Educational Institutions Act 200522 in 2010 have a bearing on the question formulated above and if so, in what manner. E. Analysis i. The preliminary objection by the Union of India 36. The Union of India advanced a preliminary objection to the reference. It argued that the dated 26 November 1981 in Anjuman-e-Rahmaniya (supra) by which the matter was referred to a Bench of seven Judges is “wholly bad in law.” It relies on the decision of a Constitution Bench in Central Board of Dawoodi Bohra Community v. State of Maharashtra23 to argue that the two- Judge Bench of this Court in Anjuman-e-Rahmaniya (supra) could not have referred the correctness of the decision rendered by the Constitution Bench in Azeez Basha (supra) directly to a Bench of seven Judges. It was suggested that the two-Judge Bench ought to have referred the matter to a Bench of equal strength to the decision the correctness of which is doubted, that is, a Bench of five Judges.