• The scheme will cover financial assistance, rehabilitation support, and restoration of property rights for the aggrieved persons and their family members. Documentation Requirements: All actions, steps, and procedures taken by the authority or Claim Commissioner must be fully and accurately documented, including: ° Issuance of s, notices, and details of responsible officers. ° Records of inquiry processes, including complaints, responses, findings, and recommendations. ° Recovery steps from erring officers, including calculations and methods. 746 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports S.No. TOPIC/ ISSUE COUNSEL’S/ SUMMARY OF SUGGESTIONS PARTY NAME ° Copies of communications with concerned persons, including notices, final determinations, and acknowledgments of receipt. Online Portal for Documentation: An online portal shall be established for preserving and documenting all actions and communications related to demolition and recovery. This portal will be available for audit, review, or inspection by authorized authorities and will house all records including notices, s, and communications, ensuring transparency and accessibility. Mr. Mohd. • Provision must be made for immediate Nizammudin interim rehabilitation and/or compensation Pasha & Ms. to persons who are found prima facie to Rashmi Singh, have been victims of punitive extra-judicial Advs. demolitions; • Payment of compensation for loss of movable/immovable property damaged or destroyed and restoration of the underlying land to persons found upon final adjudication to have been victims of punitive extra-judicial demolitions. 9. DISSEMINATION Mr. C.U. Singh, The guidelines should be translated in local & Sr. Adv. and language and widely disseminated including COMPLIANCES Ms. Fauzia publication in local newspapers and should OF THE Shakil, Adv. also be uploaded on the official website of GUIDELINES the municipal authorities. Mr. Mohd. Nodal officers must be appointed by the Nizammudin State Governments to perform the following Pasha & Ms. functions: Rashmi Singh, i) to ensure strict compliance of Advs. guidelines issued by this Hon’ble Court; ii) to provide information to owners as to legal provisions under which their dwellings etc are illegal, legal remedies available etc. ; The Nodal Officers so appointed shall be made personally liable in case of violation or non-compliance of guidelines issued by this Hon’ble Court. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 747 In Re: Directions in The Matter of Demolition of Structures S.No. TOPIC/ ISSUE COUNSEL’S/ SUMMARY OF SUGGESTIONS PARTY NAME Mr. M.R. Appropriate authorities/Municipal authorities Shamshad, Sr. shall nominate group of officers who shall Adv. be answerable to courts/administration as and when the issue relating to demolition of houses, structure, shops etc. are questioned in courts of law or any other forum. The said Nominated Officer shall report to the Divisional Commissioner / equivalent officer thereto. 11. Shri Tushar Mehta, learned SG, has also given his suggestions. The same are reproduced herein below: “In view of the legal position exposited above, the following suggestions are put forth by the Ld. Solicitor General on behalf of the Respondents: 1. The specific requirements of notice as provided in the relevant municipal law must be strictly followed. Further, the notice must clearly state the alleged violation for which demolition action is proposed.