A framework of environmental governance committed to the rule of law requires a regime which has effective, accountable and transparent institutions. Equally important is responsive, inclusive, participatory and representative decision-making. Environmental governance is founded on the rule of law and emerges from the values of our Constitution. Where the health of the environment is key to preserving the right to life as a constitutionally recognised value under Article 21 of the Constitution, proper structures for environmental decision- making find expression in the guarantee against arbitrary action and the affirmative duty of fair treatment under Article 14 of the Constitution. Sustainable development is premised not merely on the redressal of the failure of democratic institutions in the protection of the environment, but ensuring that such failures do not take place.” xxx xxx xxx 58. The UNEP Report (supra) also goes on to note [ UNEP, “Environmental Rule of Law First Global Report” (January 2019), p. 213.] : “Courts and tribunals must be able to grant meaningful legal remedies in to resolve disputes and enforce environmental laws. As shown in Figure 5.12, legal remedies are the actions, such as fines, jail time, and injunctions, that courts and tribunals are empowered to . For environmental laws to have their desired effect and for there to be adequate incentives for compliance with environmental laws, the remedies must both redress the past environmental harm and deter future harm.” [2024] 5 S.C.R. 137 The State of Telangana & Ors. v. Mohd. Abdul Qasim (Died) Per LRs. 59. In its Global Judicial Handbook on Environmental Constitutionalism, the UNEP has further noted [UNEP, Global Judicial Handbook on Environmental Constitutionalism (3rd Edn., 2019), p. 7.] : “Courts matter. They are essential to the rule of law. Without courts, laws can be disregarded, executive officials left unchecked, and people left without recourse. And the environment and the human connection to it can suffer. Judges stand in the breach.” 60. The above discussion puts into perspective our decision in the present appeals, through which we shall confirm the directions given by NGT in its impugned [T.N. Godavarman Thirumulpad v. Union of India, 2016 SCC OnLine NGT 1196] . The role of courts and tribunals cannot be overstated in ensuring that the “shield” of the “rule of law” can be used as a facilitative instrument in ensuring compliance with environmental regulations.” (emphasis supplied) FACTUAL BACKGROUND 40. Between the years 1950-1959, a revision of survey and settlement of village Kompally took place. It was concluded on 17.11.1960. An application was stated to have been filed by Respondent No. 1 (Original Plaintiff), invoking Section 87 of the Andhra Pradesh (Telangana Area) Land Revenue Act, 1317 F. (hereinafter referred to as “A.P. Land Revenue Act, 1317 F.”), seeking rectification of survey error. It was so filed on the premise that the Plaintiff actually owned the suit land. The suit land consists of 106.34 Acres and the Schedule reads thus – Village Kompally, District Warangal, Survey Number 171/3 to 171/7 admeasuring 106.34 Acres. This application did not surface for nearly a decade and a half, for the reasons known to the Plaintiff.