He submitted that after 2003, the transaction was liable to service tax. 13. The learned counsel appearing for the appellants in Civil Appeal nos.8714, 8710, 8705, 8693, and 3573-3579 of 2017 submitted that the contract of providing SCB trailers to ONGC was a contract of service and not of transfer of right to use goods in view of the terms of the contract in question. He invited the attention of this Court to several clauses in the contract. Therefore, the learned counsel urged that the specific terms of the contract indicate that it was a service contract and was not a sale. Submissions by the State of Assam 14. The learned counsel appearing for the State of Assam relied upon a decision of this Court in the case of 20th Century Finance Corporation Ltd. & Anr. v. State of Maharashtra11. He submitted that the contracts entered into by ONGC will have to be read as a whole. He relied upon the test of effective control found in this Court’s decision in the case of Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Limited6. He 10 (2008) 2 SCC 614 11 (2000) 6 SCC 12 498 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports urged that it is not lawful to split the “transfer of right to use goods” into “sale and service” for the purposes of taxation. He relied upon a decision of this Court in the case of BSNL5. His submission is that the transaction covered by the contract of hiring cranes presupposes that there is a transfer of the right to use the cranes. Therefore, the provisions regarding making available staff, maintenance, etc., are irrelevant. He urged that the actual delivery of goods is not necessary for effecting the transfer which are deliverable and are actually delivered at some stage. He submitted that if the tests laid down in the case of BSNL5 by the Hon’ble Dr. Justice AR Laxmanan are applied, it will establish that what was transferred was the right to use the goods. He submitted that as regards all the contracts subject matter of this group of appeals, such as contracts for hiring cranes, water tankers and trailers, the suppliers have transferred exclusive control and dominion over the goods to the hirer during the subsistence of the contracts. 15. In the case of Gannon Dunkerley & Co2, this Court has reiterated that in the case of composite contracts, the States did not have the power to severe sale and service components and impose tax only on sales. The learned counsel also invited our attention to the statement of objects and reasons of the Constitution (46th Amendment) Bill, 1981. He pointed out the statement of objects and reasons mentioned therein. He submitted that the contracts in the present cases clearly show that during the contract period, complete control and dominion over the cranes, trucks and trailers is given to the hirer. It is irrelevant that the cranes, trucks, etc., come back to the contractor after the contract period. He submitted that the concept of ‘deemed sale’ under sub-clause (d) of Clause 29A of Article 366 of the Constitution of India comes into operation even if there is no legal transfer of ownership of the vehicles followed by its delivery.