The revival and rehabilitation of MSME units having loan limits up to Rs.25 crore would be undertaken under this Framework. Banks were required to put in place their own Board approved policy to operationalize the Framework not later than June 30, 2016. The revised Framework supersedes our earlier Guidelines on Rehabilitation of Sick Micro and Small Enterprises issued vide our circular RPCD. CO. MSME & NFS.BC.40/06.02.31/2012-2013 dated November 1, 2012, except those relating to Reliefs and Concessions for Rehabilitation of Potentially Viable Units and One Time Settlement, mentioned in the said circular. The salient features of the Framework are as under: i) Before a loan account of an MSME turns into a Non- Performing Asset (NPA), banks or creditors should identify incipient stress in the account by creating three sub-categories under the Special Mention Account (SMA) category as given in the Framework. ii) Any MSME borrower may also voluntarily initiate proceedings under this Framework. iii) Committee approach to be adopted for deciding corrective action plan. iv) Time lines have been fixed for taking various decisions under the Framework.” 13. In view of the above, it is absolutely clear that the Instructions for the Framework for Revival and Rehabilitation of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises as notified by the Central Government vide the Notification dated 29th May, 2015 in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 9 of the MSMED Act, as revised by the RBI Notification dated 17th March, 2016, and the Master Directions i.e. the Reserve Bank of India (Lending to Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Sector) Directions, 2016, issued by the Reserve Bank of [2024] 8 S.C.R. 151 M/s Pro Knits v. The Board of Directors of Canara Bank & Ors. India in exercise of the powers conferred by Section 21 and 35(A) of the Banking Regulation Act, having statutory force, are binding to all Scheduled Commercial Banks, licensed to operate in India by the Reserve Bank of India, as stated in the said Directions. It cannot be gainsaid that the Banking Regulation Act 1949 basically seeks to regulate banking business and mandates a statutory comprehensive and formal structure of banking regulation and supervision in India. Section 21 and Section 35A of the said Act empower the Reserve Bank of India to frame the policy and give directions to the banking companies in relation to the advances to be followed by the banking companies. Such directions have got to be read as supplement to the provisions of the Banking Regulation Act and accordingly are required to be construed as having statutory force and mandatory. 14. As transpiring from the said Instructions/Directions, the entire exercise as contained in the “Framework for Revival and Rehabilitation of MSMEs” is required to be carried out by the banking companies before the accounts of MSMEs turn into Non-Performing Asset. It is true that the security interest created in favour of any Bank or secured creditor may be enforced by such creditor in accordance with the provisions contained in Chapter-III of the SARFAESI Act, and that as per Section 35 of the SARFAESI Act, the provisions of the said Act have the effect, notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in any other law for the time being in force or any instrument having effect by virtue of any such law.