V. Giri, Sri. M L Verma, Senior advocates practicing in the Hon’ble Supreme Court subject to consent, or any Hon’ble former judges for enter into reference with consent of parties to decide all the disputes arising out of the Franchise Agreement dated 21.3.2013, between the parties, within the period as per Section 29A of the Act. 16. In case of failure on your part to return the illegally withheld money or if the above request for appointment of a sole Arbitrator from the panel suggested or any other name suggested from your side within 30 days of from the receipt of this notice, our clients will be constrained to file appropriate legal proceedings as stated in Para 14 of this notice for which M/s Aptech Ltd. will be fully responsible for all costs, risks, responsibilities, expenses and consequences thereof. Please note. Copy Retained.” 61. The respondent replied to the said notice on 05.04.2023. The relevant parts from the aforesaid reply are extracted hereinbelow: “5. My clients submit that the notice addressed by you on behalf of your clients is defective, unjustified, without any basis, documents, material and is contradictory and inconsistent with the stand taken by your clients in the mediation proceedings filed before the Hon’ble High Court. 6. My client states that your clients have misinterpreted the clause of the Arbitration under the Franchise Agreement dated 21.3.2013 i.e., the conciliation/mediation process and are linking the same to the proceedings of mediation filed before the Hon’ble Bombay High Court. My client states that the mediation proceedings filed before the Hon’ble Bombay High Court was filed under section 2(1)(c) of [2024] 3 S.C.R. 107 M/S Arif Azim Co. Ltd. v. M/S Aptech Ltd. the Commercial Court Act which is mandatory provision before instituting the Commercial Suit. Therefore, my clients therefore state that the invocation of arbitration clause under the Franchise Agreement dated 21.3.2013 and your notice dated 24.11.2022 is illegal, invalid, non- est and unjustified and is liable to be withdrawn forthwith. 7. My clients state that in view of the aforesaid position, there is no cause of action for referring any dispute to the Arbitration and your notice is defective, illegal and invalid. Therefore, there is no question of my clients consenting to the invocation of the arbitration clause and/or appointment of an Arbitrator. 8. My clients state that despite having conveyed the above should your client insists in initiating any legal proceedings, the same shall be defended entirely at your client’s risk as to costs and consequences. My clients reiterate that nothing contained in your notice and not specifically dealt with herein shall in any manner be treated as an admission due to non traverse and in fact shall be treated as denial.” 62. A perusal of the above shows that the request for appointment of an arbitrator was first made by the petitioner vide notice dated 24.11.2022 and a time of one month from the date of receipt of notice was given to the respondent to comply with the said notice.