(viii) Section 107A provides that the Administrator shall constitute the Finance Commission. (ix) Section 347D also provides an appeal to the Administrator for adjudicating disputes against the of the Appellate Tribunal made under Section 343 or 347B. [2024] 8 S.C.R. 231 Government of NCT of Delhi v. Office of Lieutenant Governor of Delhi 33. In contrast, we will now examine the powers and duties entrusted to the Government of NCTD by the DMC Act. (i) Under Section 479, the Government of NCTD has the power to make Rules. The Government also has the power to approve Bye-Laws made by the Corporation. (ii) Section 7B relates to the preparation of Electoral Rolls in which the Electoral Registration Officer shall be appointed in consultation with the Government. (iii) Section 43 empowers the Government to give general or special s with respect to any function that the Corporation may perform in exercise of its duty. (iv) Under Section 52, the Government has the power to pass general or special s as specified in Fifteenth Schedule of the Act, with respect to exercise of powers and functions of the Ward Committees. (v) Under Section 89, the appointment of the Municipal Chief Auditor shall be made with the previous approval of the Government. Similarly, all the officers mentioned in Section 89(1), except the Municipal Chief Accountant and Municipal Secretary, shall be subject to confirmation by the Government. (vi) Under Section 92A, direct recruitment to category B and C posts shall be made by the Government and it may prescribe the agencies for performing its function. (vii) Under Section 116, the Government has the power to appoint and notify the Municipal Valuation Committee which comprises a Chairperson and such other members as the Government may determine. (viii) Under Section 150 the power of the Corporation to levy taxes is subject to the sanction of the Government. (ix) Under Section 169 the Government shall have the power to constitute the Municipal Taxation Tribunal and such other members as the Government may determine. (x) Under Section 207 the Government has the power to appoint an Auditor for the purpose of making a special audit of the Municipal Fund and reporting thereon to the Government. 232 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (xi) Under Section 347A the Government also has the power to constitute one or more Appellate Tribunal for deciding appeals under section 343 and 347B. (xii) Under Section 347A(4) the Government has the power to appoint one or more persons having special knowledge or experience in the matters involved in such appeals to act as assessors to advice the Appellate Tribunal. In this very context it is important to note that in so far as appointment of person manning the Appellate Tribunal is concerned, the power is given to the Central Government. (xiii) Under Section 469, the Government has the power to appoint Municipal Magistrates for conducting the trial of offences under the Act. Under sub-Section (3) the Government has the power to prescribe the salary, pension, and leave etc.