It only means that though he will still be at liberty, rather, in his right, to take recourse to the legal remedies available only in accordance with law, but not in its defiance. We will dilate this discussion with reference to the factual matrix of this case. However, we think that before dealing with the same, a small deviation to have a glance at the scope and application of the provisions under Section 82, Cr.PC will not be inappropriate. 10. There can be little doubt with respect to the position that the sine qua non for initiation of an action under Section 82, Cr. PC is prior issuance of warrant of arrest by the Court concerned. In that regard it is relevant to refer to Section 82 (1), Cr. PC, which reads thus: - “82. Proclamation for person absconding. — (1) If any Court has reason to believe (whether after taking evidence or not) that any person against whom a warrant has been issued by it has absconded or is concealing himself so that such warrant cannot be executed, such Court may publish a written proclamation requiring him to appear at a specified place and at a specified time not less than thirty days from the date of publishing such proclamation.” 11. The use of expression ‘reason to believe’ employed in Section 82 (1) Cr. PC would suggest that the Magistrate concerned must be subjectively satisfied that the person concerned has absconded or has concealed himself. In the context of Section 82, Cr. PC, we will have to understand the importance of the term ‘absconded’. Its etymological and ordinary sense is that one who is hiding himself or concealing himself and avoiding arrest. Since the legality of the proceedings under Section 82, Cr. PC is not under challenge, we need not go into that question. As noticed above, the nub of the contentions is that pending the application for pre-arrest bail, proclamation under Section 82, Cr.P.C., should not have been issued and at any rate, its issuance shall not be a reason for declining to consider such application on merits. Bearing in mind the position of law revealed 428 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports from the decisions referred to hereinbefore and the positions of law, we will briefly refer to the factual background of the case. 12. For considering the aforesaid proposition of law, we think it absolutely unnecessary to deal with FIR No. 37 of 2018 dated 28.03.2018 filed against Respondent No.2, Mr. Rajiv Kumar Upadhyay and four others, and also FIR No.66 of 2018 registered against appellant No.4 (first accused) and four other family members of the appellants. Civil Suit No.140 of 2019 filed against the family members of the appellants for illegal encroachment is also not to be considered as nothing would turn out of it in relation to the question posed for consideration. We may hasten to add that if the question whether the appellants are entitled to anticipatory bail survives, even after answering the aforementioned question(s) posed for consideration, we may refer to the relevant aspects in relation to the said cases.