Even if an affidavit of the victim accepting the settlement is on record, in cases of serious offences and especially against women, it is always advisable to procure the presence of the victim either personally or through video conference so that the Court can properly examine whether there is a genuine settlement and that the victim has no subsisting grievance. It was all the more necessary in the present case as the affidavits filed on record indicate that the appellant is an illiterate woman. Both the affidavits bear thumb impressions of the appellant, which were identified by her brother Mohan Chauhan. When illiterate persons affirm such affidavits by putting their thumb impressions, [2024] 11 S.C.R. 797 XYZ v. The State of Gujarat & Anr. usually, the affidavit must bear an endorsement that the contents of the affidavits were explained to the person affirming the same. After noticing the absence of such an endorsement, the High Court ought to have directed the appellant to personally remain present before the Court so that the High Court could have verified whether the appellant had put her thumb impressions on the affidavits after she was informed about the contents of the affidavit and after she had fully understood the contents of the affidavit. In this case, two affidavits were executed on the same day. That should have one more reason before the High Court to be very cautious before acting upon the affidavits. 8. Now, a contention has been raised by the appellant that thumb impressions have been taken on the typed affidavits in suspicious circumstances without explaining the contents thereof. The allegation is that the second respondent was the appellant’s employer. 9. As the High Court has passed the impugned and without verifying whether there was a genuine settlement between the appellant and the second respondent, the impugned and cannot be sustained. 10. We are, therefore, inclined to remand the case to the High Court with a direction to the appellant to remain present before the High Court on the date fixed by this Court. The High Court will allow the appellant to explain her position vis-`a-vis the stand taken by the second respondent about the settlement. After hearing the appellant, the High Court would be well within its powers to an inquiry to be held by a Judicial Officer about the manner in which the affidavits have been executed and on the question of whether the thumb impressions of the appellant were taken on the affidavits without explaining to her the contents of the affidavits. 11. It will always be open for the appellant to file an affidavit before the High Court on the issue of settlement. 12. Accordingly, we set aside the impugned and dated 29th September, 2023 and restore Criminal Miscellaneous Application (for quashing and setting aside the FIR/) No.15041 of 2023 to the file of the High Court. We direct that the restored petition be listed before the Roster Bench before the High Court on 2nd December, 2024 in the morning when the appellant and the second respondent 798 [2024] 11 S.C.R.