14. To put it plainly, XLVII Rule 1 of the CPC provides three grounds for review: 1) discovery of new and important matter or evidence which, after the exercise of due diligence was not within the applicant’s knowledge or could not be produced by the applicant at the time when the decree was passed, or made; or 2) mistake or error apparent on the face of the record; or 3) for any other sufficient reason, which must be analogous to either of the aforesaid grounds. 15. In Moran Mar Basselios Catholicos and another v. Most Rev. Mar Paulose Athanasius,20 this Court approved the view that the third ground – “any other sufficient cause” must mean a reason sufficient on grounds, at least analogous to the first two grounds. The same view has been reiterated in a recent decision of this Court in State (NCT of Delhi) v. K.L. Rathi Steels Ltd.21 This Court affirmed that the scope of the third ground had to be narrowly construed so as to not traverse beyond the orbit of the first two grounds. 16. Since the Division Bench (review) invoked the first clause, we hasten to emphasize that an applicant seeking review on the basis of discovery of new evidence has to demonstrate: first, that there has been discovery of new evidence, of which he had no prior knowledge or that it could not be produced at the time the decree was passed or the made despite due diligence; and secondly, that the new evidence is material to the /decree being reviewed in the sense that if the evidence were produced in court when the decree was passed or the made, the decision of the court would have been otherwise. Ultimately, it is for the court to decide whether a review sought for by an applicant, if granted, would prevent abuse of the process of law and/or miscarriage of justice. 20 [1955] 1 SCR 520 : AIR 1954 SC 526 21 [2024] 5 SCR 949 : 2024 SCC OnLine SC 1090 1094 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 17. When the ground for review sought is that of discovery of new evidence, this Court in State of West Bengal v. Kamal Sengupta 22 has clarified that the same must be evidence which should be materially important to the decision taken. The following passage is instructive: “21. At this stage it is apposite to observe that where a review is sought on the ground of discovery of new matter or evidence, such matter or evidence must be relevant and must be of such a character that if the same had been produced, it might have altered the . In other words, mere discovery of new or important matter or evidence is not sufficient ground for review ex debito justitiae. Not only this, the party seeking review has also to show that such additional matter or evidence was not within its knowledge and even after the exercise of due diligence, the same could not be produced before the court earlier.” (emphasis ours) 18.