The Bench noted that the word ‘liquor’ must be given a wide meaning to include “all alcoholic liquids which may be used as substitutes for intoxicating drinks, to the detriment of health.”140 On the consideration of the meaning of the phrase, both from the perspective of legislative meaning and the constitutional directive of prohibiting intoxicating drinks which are injurious to health, this Court reversed the finding of the High Court.141 79. Though the High Court held that the definition of ‘liquor’ in the Bombay Prohibition Act is ultra vires and this Court reversed the finding, there is one commonality between both the decisions. Neither of the decisions limited the scope of the phrase to the common parlance meaning of ‘intoxicating beverages’. Both the decisions held that the entry covered liquor which may not produce ‘intoxication’ but which may be used for noxious purposes. The difference is one of 137 (1951) SCC 860 [44] 138 (1951) SCC 860 [44] 139 “47. Duty of the State to raise the level of nutrition and the standard of living and to improve public health.- The State shall regard the raising of the level of nutrition and the standard of living of its people and the improvement of public health as among its primary duties and, in particular, the State shall endeavor to being about prohibition of the consumption, except for medicinal purposes of intoxicating drinks and of drugs which are injurious to health.” 140 (1951) SCC 860 [45] 141 See Paragraph 48: “… the idea of prohibition is connected with public health, and to enforce prohibition effectively the wider definition of the word “liquor” would have to be adopted so as to include all alcoholic liquids which may be substitutes for intoxicating drinks, to the detriment of health. On the whole, I am unable to agree with the High Court’s finding, and hold that the definition of ‘liquor’ in the Bombay prohibition Act is not ultra vires.” [emphasis supplied] [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2009 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons degree. While the High Court held that all liquids containing alcohol will not be covered by Entry 31 of List II, this Court held otherwise. However, the conclusion of this Court on the scope of the phrase cannot be read detached from observations that a wider definition of intoxicating liquor is necessary to cover other products which ‘may be used as substitutes for intoxicating drinks’. 80. In Southern Pharmaceuticals and Chemical v. State of Kerala,142 the appellants challenged the constitutional validity of the provisions of the Abkari Act, as amended by the Abkari (Amendment) Act 1967 and Kerala Rectified Spirit Rules 1972 which regulated the use of alcohol for the preparation of medicines. Item 22 of the Schedule to IDRA specifies the “drugs and pharmaceuticals” industry. The contention was that the State Legislature did not have the competence to enact laws because the field was covered by Parliament through IDRA. The issue before the three-Judge Bench of this Court was whether the State Legislature had the competence to enact a law related to medicinal and toilet preparations containing alcohol under Entry 8 of List II of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution.