C. Consideration of Section 161 CrPC Statement of Deceased Tularam as Dying Declaration 62. It is contended on behalf of the Appellant that the courts below have erred in relying on the statement of Tularam (Ex.P.40) given to Investigating Officer, Girish Bohre (P.W.14) and that the said statement cannot be considered to be a ‘dying declaration’ as the Investigating Officer did not take any certification from the doctor regarding the fitness of mind of Tularam. 63. In this regard, the following part of the testimony of Investigating Officer, Girish Bohre (P.W.14), who recorded the statement of Tularam under Section 161 CrPC, becomes quintessential: “It is correct that I did not take permission from the Doctor about the condition of giving statement of Tularam before recording statement of Tularam. It is correct that I knew this fact at the time of recording statement that one person has died in this case. As head injury was not told to be serious in the Medical Report, so it is incorrect to say that I knew this fact that Tularam had sustained lathi blow on his head and his condition was serious. It is incorrect to say that head injury caused to Tularam was serious and his condition was 7 [2015] 3 SCR 947 : (2015) 11 SCC 43 8 [2010] 15 SCR 1012 : (2010) 14 SCC 129 [2024] 7 S.C.R. 243 Dharmendra Kumar @ Dhamma v. State of Madhya Pradesh told to be serious in his medical report. It is correct that proceedings of recording dying declaration of Tularam was not conducted by me till Tularam was alive. It is incorrect to say that Tularam was not able to speak after sustaining the injuries and till his death, so I did not record his dying declaration. It is incorrect to say that due to this reason the statement of Exhibit P.40 has been falsely prepared.” 64. Before we proceed further, it would be apt to recapitulate Section 32(1) of the IEA, whereunder the statement made by a person, who is dead, as to the cause of his death or as to any of the circumstances of the transaction which resulted in his death, is relevant and admissible, irrespective of the fact that such person at the time of making the statement was not under expectation of death. 65. Section 161 CrPC empowers the Police to examine orally any person who is acquainted with the facts and circumstances of the case under investigation. The Police may reduce such statement into writing also. Section 162(1) CrPC, nonetheless, mandates that no statement made by any person to a Police Officer, if reduced to writing, be signed by the person making it, nor shall such statement be used in evidence except to contradict a witness in the manner provided by Section 145 of the IEA. However, Sub-Section (2) of Section 162 CrPC carves out an exception to Sub-Section (1) as it explicitly provides that nothing in Section 162 shall be deemed to apply to any statement falling within the ambit of clause (1) of Section 32 of the IEA.