Dr. Neeraj Sud was a duly qualified doctor possessing requisite professional skill and competence to perform the surgery. Therefore, neither Dr. Neeraj Sud nor the PGI can be held responsible for any negligence in the treatment. 10. The aforesaid findings of the State Commission have been partly reversed by the NCDRC only on the basis of the re-examination of the record of the PGI which showed that the patient before operation had proper 6/9 vision in both the eyes and was suffering from a 1480 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports moderate PTOSIS with no history of double vision. However, post- surgery, the condition of PTOSIS deteriorated from moderate to severe and the vision of the patient also fell down from 6/9 in both eyes to 6/18. The patient also suffered from double vision post-surgery. Thus, the NCDRC held that the doctor was apparently negligent in not giving proper treatment and was also careless in not performing the repeat surgery. 11. Deterioration of the condition of the patient post-surgery is not necessarily indicative or suggestive of the fact that the surgery performed or the treatment given to the patient was not proper or inappropriate or that there was some negligence in administering the same. In case of surgery or such treatment it is not necessary that in every case the condition of the patient would improve and the surgery is successful to the satisfaction of the patient. It is very much possible that in some rare cases complications of such nature arise but that by itself does not establish any actionable negligence on part of the medical expert. 12. The NCDRC itself acknowledged that Dr. Neeraj Sud had the necessary professional qualification and expertise to treat the patient but it has granted compensation only for the reason that he did not bring the requisite skill and care in the treatment of the patient. 13. The said finding is based on no evidence insofar as the complainants have not adduced any evidence to prove any negligence on part of the doctor rather have relied upon the medical records produced by the PGI. The said records merely demonstrate that post-surgery the condition of the patient had not improved but has deteriorated which as stated earlier may not be indicative of the negligence in the treatment of the patient. 14. It is well recognized that actionable negligence in context of medical profession involves three constituents (i) duty to exercise due care; (ii) breach of duty and (iii) consequential damage. However, a simple lack of care, an error of or an accident is not sufficient proof of negligence on part of the medical professional so long as the doctor follows the acceptable practice of the medical profession in discharge of his duties. He cannot be held liable for negligence merely because a better alternative treatment or course of treatment was available or that more skilled doctors were there who could have administered better treatment. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1481 Neeraj Sud and Anr. v. Jaswinder Singh (Minor) and Anr.