In his examination-in-chief, the Sub-Inspector (PW-19) explained the arrest of the appellant in the following manner: “2. In respect of this case, crime no.388-2000 on 26.12.2000 my inspector instructed me to find out the accused. The same day myself and my staff taken into custody the accused Vishwananth at 4:30 PM near Goraksha Jnana Mandira, Near Kadri Park, Mangalore. Said accused is before the Court. I identify him. With the help of Vishwanath we had arrested another accused, Ravi Kumar at 5 P.M in a ‘Galli’ near State Bank of Mysore, Silver gate, Kulashekara, Mangalore…” A perusal of the testimony of the Sub-Inspector/PW-19 indicates that there is not even a whisper as to what formed the basis of the appellant’s arrest. He was cross-examined and what was gathered from his cross-examination is that the appellant was arrested in absence of any independent witnesses and without preparing any arrest memo. All these facts combined together cast a doubt on the 60 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports identity of the appellant. Thus, it is not safe to convict the appellant solely only on the basis of the testimony of PW1 and PW2, which itself. 18. Another aspect which needs to be considered is that the prosecution case rests primarily on the evidence of PW-1 and PW-2, who were the star witnesses. The admitted case of the prosecution is that PW-1, who is the daughter of the deceased, had gone out for some household work and there was no one in the house when the crime was committed. First, PW-1 had gone to a place named ‘Kulshekara’ and then to the Post Office, and in the end to her uncle’s house at ‘Ullal’. The distance between her residence at Kudupu and Ullal is about 20 km. She first walks some distance and then catches a bus to reach Kulshekara and from there she went to the post office, and after attending to her work, she takes a bus to go to her uncle’s house at Ullal. Finally, she returned home in Kudupu and all of this was done by her within a period of 2½ hours. But this is not enough, as per the prosecution version, she also reached her house at the very moment when the deceased was being strangulated and then peeping through the window pane, she witnessed the two accused pulling the two ends of the rope. She called Accused no. 1-Ravikumar by his name, which led to the two accused fleeing from the spot and PW-2 who is the neighbour, chased them but in vain. This whole story of the prosecution is unbelievable for more reasons than one. Even if it is assumed for the sake of argument that PW-1 had reached the house at the exact time when the crime was being committed, the testimony to the effect that her mother was strangulated to death by a rope-like material, in the manner narrated by her, is not corroborated by the post-mortem report where ligature marks on the neck were not found to be encircling the neck in a round manner, as it should have been in such a case of strangulation.