The notification which purports to entrust functions as proper officer under the Customs Act has been issued by the Central Board of Excise and Customs in exercise of non-existing power under Section 2(34) of the Customs Act. The notification is obviously invalid having been [2024] 12 S.C.R. 291 Commissioner of Customs v. M/s Canon India Pvt. Ltd. issued by an authority which had no power to do so in purported exercise of powers under a section which does not confer any such power.” [Emphasis supplied] 118. It was held that Section 6 is the only section which provides for the entrustment of the functions of customs officers to other officers of the Central or State Government or local authority. As a result of the in Canon India (supra), the respondents herein vociferously argued that Section 5 of the Act, 1962 only deals with the powers and duties and not functions and it is Section 6 which refers to functions. Such argument proceeded on the erroneous footing that any notification empowering the DRI should have been issued under Section 6 of the Act, 1962 and not having been done so, the show cause notice issued by the DRI was without jurisdiction. 119. Section 6 of the Act, 1962 reads thus: “6. Entrustment of functions of Board and customs officers on certain other officers.—The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, entrust either conditionally or unconditionally to any officer of the Central or the State Government or a local authority any functions of the Board or any officer of customs under this Act.” [Emphasis supplied] 120. It is evident on a plain reading of Section 6 of the Act, 1962 referred to above that the same contemplates the entrustment of the functions of the Board or any officer of customs under the Act, 1962 to any of the officers of the Central or the State Government or a local authority. Such entrustment could be either conditional or unconditional. As per Section 6 of the Act, 1962, the Central Government may by notification in the Official Gazette entrust the functions of the Board or the officers of Customs to any of the following officers, namely, any officer of: (i) The Central Government; or (ii) The State Government; or (iii) A local authority. 292 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 121. Section 6 replaced Section 8 of the erstwhile Sea Customs Act, 1878 under which the powers of officers of customs, at places where there is no Customs House, are exercised by the land revenue officers of the district. This is no longer necessary as the Central Excise officers are available all over the country. Further the powers of customs officers at times need to be conferred on other officers, like police officers. Section 6, therefore, makes a general provision empowering the Central Government to entrust the functions of the Board or an officer of customs to any officer of the Central or State government or a local authority. 122. The object of this Section is to confer powers of search, seizure, arrest and recording of statements, to the officers working in b states like officers of police service, B Security Force, Tehsildar, Indo Tibet B Police Force and others.