181 Krishnadatt Awasthy v. State of Madhya Pradesh & Ors. to prevent the miscarriage of justice. Such doctrine was held to be incapable of exact definition but what a reasonable man would regard as a fair procedure in particular circumstances would amount to prevent the miscarriage of justice. In the case of Russell Vs. Duke of Norfolk; (1949) 1 AII ER 109 (CA), As Tucker, L.J. has expounded when the principles of natural justice are required to be seen, everything will depend on the actual facts of the case. He observed as thus: - “The requirements of natural justice must depend on the circumstances of the case, the nature of the inquiry, the rules under which the tribunal is acting, the subject-matter that is being dealt with and so forth.” 36. On reverting to the facts of the present case and as observed in the table in Para 2 of this judgement, five of the present appellants fall within the prohibited degree of relatives as prescribed in the explanation of Section 40 of the Adhiniyam, while the remaining five have near relationships with the Committee members. It is also to observe that their relationships have not been denied by the present appellants at any juncture of this litigation. The process of selection is the same in which some of the appellants having prohibited degree of relationship and near relationship. To apply the test of reasonable likelihood of bias, the relationship of candidates with the office bearers is material which may have relevance when an action for removal of the office bearer is required. But by such an act substantial likelihood of bias in selection of relatives by the members of the Committee cannot be ruled out from the mind of a reasonable man as expressed by Lord Denning in the case of Metropolitan Properties Co. (FGC) Ltd. (supra). Additionally, the observation of the learned Single Judge in paragraphs 17, 21, 22 and 23 of his judgement demonstrate the orchestrated manner in which bias has vitiated the selection process. In my view, it is sufficient to plant the seed of likelihood of bias in the mind of a reasonable man, thus, the test of reasonable likelihood of bias as propounded in the abovementioned judgements is satisfied if tested on the anvil of the facts of the present case. 37. In the present case, in my considered opinion, the findings recorded by the two quasi-judicial authorities, writ court and writ appellate court are based on the analysis of reasonable likelihood of bias 182 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports which rightly stirs bias in the mind of a common man who could not get selected because the appellants have relations with the members of the selection committee. The detailed analysis of irregularities has been explained by the learned Single Judge and has been re-affirmed by the Division Bench. In my view the said stamp of approval should not be disturbed by this Court in exercise of jurisdiction under Article 136 of the Constitution of India.