Once these four elements are established by the prosecution (and, of course, the burden is on the prosecution throughout) the offence is murder under S. 300, “Thirdly. It does not matter that there was no intention to cause death. It does not matter that there was no intention even to cause an injury of a kind that is sufficient to cause death in the ordinary course of nature (not that there is any real distinction between the two). It does not even matter that there is no knowledge that an act of that kind will be likely to cause death. Once the intention to cause the bodily injury actually found to be present is proved, the rest of the enquiry is purely objective and the only question is whether, as a matter of purely objective inference, the injury is sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death. No one has a licence to run around inflicting injuries that are sufficient to cause death in the ordinary course of nature and claim that they are not guilty of murder. If they inflict injuries of that kind, they must face the consequences; and they can only escape if it can be shown, or reasonably deduced that the injury was accidental or otherwise unintentional.” 410 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 25.13 This position has further been upheld by this Court recently in the case of Vinod Kumar vs. Amritpal,7 wherein the bench observed that: “24. Once the prosecution establishes the existence of the three ingredients forming a part of “thirdly” in Section 300, it is irrelevant whether there was an intention on the part of the accused to cause death. Further, it does not matter that there was no intention even to cause the injury of a kind that is sufficient to cause death in ordinary course of nature. Even the knowledge that an act of that kind is likely to cause death is not necessary to attract “thirdly”.” 25.14 This Court in the case of Balkar Singh vs. State of Uttarakhand,8 while following the in Virsa Singh (Supra) further elaborated the position of law and laid down that culpable homicide is murder if two conditions are fulfilled: a. the act which caused death is done with the intention of causing death or is done with the intention of causing a bodily injury; and b. the injury intended to be inflicted in sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death. 25.15 The Court in the above-mentioned clarified that even if the intention of accused was limited to inflicting a bodily injury sufficient to cause death in the ordinary course of nature, the offence of murder would still be made out. 25.16 The third clause of Section 300, IPC defines murder as the act of causing death by causing such bodily injury as is likely to result in death in the ordinary course of nature. In the present case, the appellant’s actions satisfy these criteria. The appellant was armed with a knife, which he used to inflict multiple injuries on vital organs.