This right to represent and to have the representation considered at the earliest flows from the constitutional guarantee of the right to personal liberty — the right which is highly cherished in our Republic and its protection against arbitrary and unlawful invasion.” 7. It is neither possible nor advisable to lay down any rigid period of time uniformly applicable to all cases within which period the representation of detenu has to be disposed of with reasonable expedition but it must necessarily depend on the facts and circumstances of each case. The expression “reasonable expedition” is explained in Sabir Ahmed v. Union of India [(1980) 3 SCC 295 : 1980 SCC (Cri) 675] as follows: (SCC p. 299, para 12) “What is ‘reasonable expedition’ is a question depending on the circumstances of the particular case. No hard and fast rule as to the measure of reasonable time can be laid down. But it certainly does not cover the delay due to negligence, callous inaction, avoidable red-tapism and unduly protracted procrastination.” 8. See also Vijay Kumar v. State of J&K [(1982) 2 SCC 43 : 1982 SCC (Cri) 348] and Raisuddin v. State of U.P. [(1983) 4 SCC 537 : 1984 SCC (Cri) 16] . 9. Thus when it is emphasised and re-emphasised by a series of decisions of this Court that a representation should be considered with reasonable expedition, it is imperative on the part of every authority, whether in 348 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports merely transmitting or dealing with it, to discharge that obligation with all reasonable promptness and diligence without giving room for any complaint of remissness, indifference or avoidable delay because the delay, caused by slackness on the part of any authority, will ultimately result in the delay of the disposal of the representation which in turn may invalidate the of detention as having infringed the mandate of Article 22(5) of the Constitution. 10. A contention similar to one pressed before us was examined by this Court in Vijay Kumar case [(1982) 2 SCC 43 : 1982 SCC (Cri) 348] wherein the facts were that the representation of the detenu therein dated 29-7-1981 was forwarded to Government by the Superintendent of Jail on the same day by post followed by a wireless message, but according to the Government, the representation was not received by them. Thereafter, a duplicate copy was sent by the Jail Superintendent on being requested and the same was received by the Government on 12- 8-1981. Considering the time lag of 14 days in the given circumstances of that case, this Court though overlooked the same and allowed the writ petition on the subsequent time lag, made the following observation: (SCC pp. 49- 50, para 12) “The jail authority is merely a communicating channel because the representation has to reach the Government which enjoys the power of revoking the detention . The intermediary authorities who are communicating authorities have also to move with an amount of promptitude so that the statutory guarantee of affording earliest opportunity of making the representation and the same reaching the Government is translated into action.