It has been executed by the defendant-appellant. A perusal of the gift deed reveals that the donor has gifted the suit property in favour of the plaintiff-respondent for the purposes of manufacturing of Khadi Lungi and Khadi Yarn etc., with the condition that the plaintiff-respondent shall not transfer the suit property for its own self-interest. The gift deed stipulates that neither the donor nor his legal heirs have any right or interest or will continue to have any right or interest in the suit property from the time and date of the gift deed. The gift deed further states that the gift is with full consent of the donor and that from the date of the gift itself, the plaintiff-respondent accepts the suit property for the use as aforesaid. 7. A simple and complete reading of the aforesaid gift deed would reveal that the gift is absolute with no right reserved for its revocation in any contingency. The only purpose stipulated therein is that the property gifted shall be used for manufacturing Khadi Lungi and Khadi Yarn etc. 8. It is worth noting that the gift deed itself states that from the date of the gift deed the suit property is accepted by the plaintiff-respondent for the purpose of manufacturing Khadi Lungi and Khadi Yarn etc., which duly proves that the gift was accepted. It was also acted upon as pursuant thereof the plaintiff-respondent had applied for mutation to the revenue authorities. In addition to the above, the plaintiff- respondent issued a memo on 16.09.1983, Exhibit A-4 which also proves that the possession of the suit property was taken over and that it proceeded to raise construction thereon. 9. Exhibits A-2 to A-4 prove that the possession of the suit property was taken over by the plaintiff-respondent on the date of the gift itself 956 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports which is sufficient evidence that the gift was acted upon and accepted by the plaintiff-respondent. The plaintiff-respondent, pursuant to the aforesaid gift deed and its acceptance has even applied to the revenue authorities for the mutation of its name which further fortifies the fact that the gift was duly accepted. 10. Considering the above, in view of the findings recorded by the first appellate Court and the High Court that the gift deed was duly acted upon and accepted by the plaintiff-respondent, the conclusion is that the said gift deed cannot be held to be invalid for want of acceptance. Thus, on the basis of the aforesaid gift deed, the plaintiff-respondent acquired absolute right and title over the suit property. 11. Now the question arises as to whether the aforesaid gift deed has been validly revoked vide revocation deed dated 17.08.1987, and if so, what would be its impact upon the rights of the plaintiff-respondent in respect of the suit property. 12. No doubt, the gift validly made can be suspended or revoked under certain contingencies but ordinarily it cannot be revoked, more particularly when no such right is reserved under the gift deed.