13. The trial court, after hearing the parties on the application for grant of temporary injunction, took the view that the conditions for grant of injunction in favour of the plaintiffs were satisfied and accordingly allowed the injunction application below Exhibit 5 vide dated 10.01.2022. 14. The trial court took the view that the sale deed executed by the defendant no. 1 in favour of the defendant no. 3 did not bear the signatures of any of the plaintiffs. Further, the plaintiffs had produced the sale deed of 1991 by way of which the plaintiffs along with the defendant nos. 1 and 2 respectively had become joint owners of the suit property. In view of the aforesaid, the trial court took the view that the plaintiffs were able to establish a prima facie case that they have a right title and interest in the suit property. Further, the trial court held that the facts of the case suggested that the balance of convenience was in the favour of the plaintiffs and further that if temporary injunction was not granted, then the plaintiffs may suffer loss that cannot be compensated in terms of money. 15. In view of the aforesaid, the trial court directed the defendant no. 3 not to deal or transact with anyone in any manner in respect of the suit property till the disposal of the suit. APPEAL BEFORE THE HIGH COURT 16. Aggrieved by the granting injunction in favour of the plaintiffs, the defendants filed a miscellaneous appeal before the High Court under 43 Rule 1 read with Section 104 of the CPC. The defendants challenged the granting injunction inter alia on the following grounds: a. The plaintiffs have failed to make out any prima facie case as the power of attorney executed in favour of the defendant no. 1 is not under challenge and thus no presumption can be drawn against it. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1351 Ramakant Ambalal Choksi v. Harish Ambalal Choksi & Others b. The relief sought in the interim injunction application below Exhibit-5 is virtually the same as the relief sought in the suit. c. No irreparable harm would be caused to the plaintiffs if injunction is declined as the non-grant of relief can be compensated in terms of money. The plaintiffs have not been able to establish any of the necessary conditions required for grant of injunction. d. Grant of injunction in favour of the plaintiffs has caused irreparable harm to the defendant no. 3 as he is unable to utilize the property that he has purchased by way of a registered sale deed. e. The defendant no. 1 has acquired a right in the suit property by virtue of a family arrangement and he executed the sale deed on the strength of the power of attorney only after taking consent of all the signatories. As per the family arrangement, an amount of Rs 16.50 Crore is due to the defendant no. 1 from the plaintiffs. f. Clause No. 5 of the power of attorney dated 05.04.1995 suggests that the power was given to undertake the procedure for sale in reference to the Income Tax authority and clause no.