It is in the above background that the Judges of this Court have been deciding constitutional issues over the decades. Of course, no particular line of thinking is static and changes are brought about by the State by bearing in mind the exigencies of the times and global impact particularly on the Indian economy. Such attempts to create an environment suitable to the changing times have to be also appreciated by the judiciary, of course, by suitably interpreting the Constitution and the laws. But by there being a paradigm shift in the economy of this Country, akin to Perestroika in the erstwhile USSR, in my view, neither the s of the previous decades nor the judges who decided those cases can be said to have done a “disservice to the Constitution”. The answer lies in the obligation that this Court, in particular, and the Indian judiciary, in general, has in meeting the newer challenges of the times by choosing only that part of the past wisdom which is apposite for the present without decrying the past judges. I say so, lest the judges of posterity ought not to follow the same practice. I say that the institution of the Supreme Court of India is greater than individual judges, who are only a part of it at different stages of history of this great Country! Therefore, I do not concur with the observations of the learned Chief Justice in the proposed . I say so for the following narration. From 1950 to 1991: Planned economy to Liberalization, Privatisation and Globalisation (“LPG”): 6. Much like many countries finding liberation from colonial rule, the immediate task before independent India was to alleviate its population out of poverty and systematically organize its economy. To that end, 200 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports India adopted a mixed economy model wherein both public and private sectors could coexist. Turning to command economies, the Indian State sought to triumph over inter-regional disparities in resources and development through economic planning, an approach that had proven successful in command economies to bring sustained transformation of resources and implementation of plans in national interests rather than inefficient allocation of resources. 6.1 Buttressed by the Bombay Plan, proposed by influential industrialists, the Industrial Policy Resolution of 1948 and the over-expansive vision of the State shared by nearly every political party, the early years of the Indian Government had it play a dominant role in the setting up of heavy enterprises and being a controller of the economy and resources. Consequently, the market was not merely strongly regulated but also led by the public sector manifesting as state interventions and regulations with the aim of protecting indigenous industries. 6.2 With that in sight, the Planning Commission was set up in 1950 to oversee the entire range of planning, including resource allocation, implementation and appraisal of five- year plans under the leadership of the first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru. In 1951, deterred by significant loss of foreign reserves on food import, India’s First five-year plan focused on agriculture and irrigation to boost farm output.