Bearing in mind the aforestated legal position, let us consider the averments and allegations made by the respondent no. 1 in the Election Petition in which the election of the Appellant is sought to be challenged basically on two grounds: (1) that the appellant has committed corrupt practice and (2) the result of the election in so far as it concerned the appellant, was materially affected by the improper acceptance of his nomination. In short, the respondent no. 1 has invoked Section 100(1)(b) and Section 100(1)(d)(i) of the Act, for declaring the election of the Appellant as void. 17. As transpiring from the Election Petition, the respondent no.1 along with 13 other candidates including the present appellant had submitted their nomination papers for LA - 10 Sonai LAC, however according to the respondent no. 1, the affidavit in Form 26 filed by the appellant along with his nomination paper was invalid and defective as the same contained false statements, and suppression and misrepresentation of facts with regard to the educational qualification and suppression of facts with regard to his liability in respect of the loan availed by him by way of a Cash Credit Limit (CCL) for a partnership firm namely M/s. Allied Concern of which he was an active partner, and suppression of facts with regard to his default in deposit of employer’s contribution of provident fund in respect of 536 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the employees of the said M/s. Allied Concern. As regards the false claim of educational qualification, the respondent no.1 has alleged in the Election petition inter alia that the appellant had mentioned in Column no. 9 of his affidavit in Form 26 appended to his nomination paper that his educational qualification was Bachelor of Arts (B.A.) which he passed from Chaudhary Charan Singh University, Meerut in Uttar Pradesh in the year 2019, but the appellant had never passed B.A. from the said University or from any other Institution or University. It is further alleged in the Election petition that the appellant did not mention about his so-called technical qualification of diploma in Civil Engineering in the nomination paper, which he had mentioned in the affidavit in Form 26 when he contested 2016 General Election. The respondent no. 1 has also alleged that though the appellant was a partner in M/s. Allied Concern, which availed a loan from United Bank of India (PNB), Tarapur Branch at Silchar, the appellant had deliberately suppressed the details of the CC Limit Loan Account with the said bank and also the defaults made in repayment of the said loan. The respondent no. 1 has also alleged that the appellant had deliberately not mentioned about the liabilities of the appellant as the partner of M/s. Allied Concern with regard to the employer’s contribution of provident fund for its employees. According to the respondent no. 1 he had raised an objection before the returning officer on the date of scrutiny that is on 15.03.2021 that the appellant did not possess the educational qualification of B.A.