(3) Subject to the provisions of sub-sections (1), (1-A) and (2), the Government may, on the recommendations of the Council, specify, by notification, the transactions that are to be treated as— (a) a supply of goods and not as a supply of services; or (b) a supply of services and not as a supply of goods.” (emphasis added) [2024] 10 S.C.R. 833 Chief Commissioner of Central Goods and Service Tax & Ors. v. M/s Safari Retreats Private Ltd. & Ors. 37. In view of clause (a) of sub-section (1) of Section 7, a supply of services such as sale, transfer, licence, rental or lease made for consideration is a supply. Whether the activities or transactions covered by sub-section (1) of Section 7 constitute a supply has to be considered in light of Schedule II. Schedule II has a title: “Activities or transactions to be treated as supply of goods or supply of services”. The activities/transactions incorporated in Schedule II are treated as a supply of service. As far as lands and buildings are concerned, clauses (2) and (5) of Schedule II are relevant, which read thus: “2. Land and Building (a) any lease, tenancy, easement, licence to occupy land is a supply of services; (b) any lease or letting out of the building including a commercial, industrial or residential complex for business or commerce, either wholly or partly, is a supply of services. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 5. Supply of services The following shall be treated as supply of services, namely:— (a) renting of immovable property; (b) construction of a complex, building, civil structure or a part thereof, including a complex or building intended for sale to a buyer, wholly or partly, except where the entire consideration has been received after issuance of completion certificate, where required, by the competent authority or after its first occupation, whichever is earlier. Explanation.—For the purposes of this clause— (1) the expression “competent authority” means the Government or any authority authorised to issue completion certificate under any law for the time being in force and in case of non-requirement of such certificate from such authority, from any of the following, namely:— (i) an architect registered with the Council of Architecture constituted under the Architects Act, 1972; or 834 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (ii) a chartered engineer registered with the Institution of Engineers (India); or (iii) a licensed surveyor of the respective local body of the city or town or village or development or planning authority; (2) the expression “construction” includes additions, alterations, replacements or remodelling of any existing civil structure; (c) temporary transfer or permitting the use or enjoyment of any intellectual property right; (d) development, design, programming, customisation, adaptation, upgradation, enhancement, implementation of information technology software; (e) agreeing to the obligation to refrain from an act, or to tolerate an act or a situation, or to do an act; and (f) transfer of the right to use any goods for any purpose (whether or not for a specified period) for cash, deferred payment or other valuable consideration.” 38.