(2) Subject to the provisions of any law made in this behalf by Parliament, the Supreme Court shall, as respects the whole of the territory of India, have all and every power to make any for the purpose of securing the attendance of any person, the discovery or production of any documents, or the investigation or punishment of any contempt of itself.” (underlining by us) 6.1 The aforesaid Article empowers the Supreme Court to exercise its jurisdiction to pass such decree or make such as is necessary for doing complete justice in any cause or matter pending before it and any decree so passed or so made shall be enforceable throughout the territory of India in such 1370 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports manner as may be prescribed by or under any law made by Parliament and until provision in that behalf is so made, in such manner as the President may by prescribe. The expression “such as is necessary for doing complete justice” has a wide amplitude and scope and empowers the Supreme Court to make any as may be necessary for doing complete justice in a case before it. Thus, the object of exercising such power is ultimately to do complete justice between the parties. Usually, when the Supreme Court moulds the relief while ensuring that no injustice is caused, power is exercised under Article 142(1) for doing complete justice in the matter. Sometimes, while laying down the law in a matter, a direction could be issued by granting relief in a particular way in that particular case so as to safeguard the interest of the parties. The Supreme Court would also look into equitable consideration while passing such s given the facts and circumstances of a case, so as to further the cause of justice. 6.2 In Shilpa Sailesh vs. Varun Sreenivasan, (2023) 5 SCR 165 (“Shilpa Sailesh”), a Constitution Bench of this Court speaking through Sanjiv Khanna, J. (as the present Chief Justice of India then was) observed in paragraph 19 as under: “19. Exercise of jurisdiction under Article 142(1) of the Constitution of India by this Court in such cases is clearly permissible to do ‘complete justice’ to a ‘cause or matter’. We should accept that this Court can pass an or decree which a family court, trial court or High Court can pass. As per Article 142(1) of the Constitution of India, a decree passed or an made by this Court is executable throughout the territory of India. Power of this Court under Articles 136 and 142(1) of the Constitution of India will certainly embrace and enswathe this power to do ‘complete justice’, even when the main case/ proceeding is pending before the family court, the trial court or another judicial forum. A question or issue of lack of subject-matter jurisdiction does not arise. Settlements in matrimonial matters invariably end multiple legal proceedings, including criminal proceedings in different courts and at diverse [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1371 Rinku Baheti v. Sandesh Sharda locations. Necessarily, in such cases, the parties have to move separate applications in multiple courts, including the jurisdictional High Court, for appropriate relief and closure, and disposal and/or dismissal of cases.