Act, is the principal duties and functions performed by an employee in the establishment and not merely the designation of his post. Further, the onus of proving the nature of employment rests on the person claiming to be a “workman” within the definition of section 2(s) of the I.D. Act. 16. In the present case, there is no specific document adduced relating to the actual work and functions performed by the employee. In the absence of any concrete material to demonstrate the nature of duties discharged by the employee, the employment s issued by the management will have to be taken into consideration and as per the same, the employee was appointed as Junior Engineer and was promoted as Assistant Engineer, on the administrative side. It is the evidence of M.W.1 that the employee was supervising the work of two junior Engineers, who were working under him, which was also admitted by the employee in his cross examination, as W.W.1. Even according to the employee, the nature of duties and functions discharged by him was of supervisory. As such, applying the pre-amended provision of section 2(s), since the employee was 2312 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports terminated from service on 08.10.2003 and was drawing salary of more than Rs.1,600/-, he does not come within the definition of “workman”. Therefore, we hold that the employee is not a “workman” as defined under section 2(s) and is not covered by the provisions of the I.D. Act. In view of the same, the of the High Court upholding the finding of the Labour Court that the employee was a “workman” within the definition of post-amended section 2(s), is liable to be set aside. 17. As regards the grant of reinstatement of the employee in service and payment of compensation in lieu of back wages by the Labour Court, it appears to us that in terms of clause 14 of the appointment letter, the employee was required to be paid one month salary in lieu of notice. As is evident from the letter dated 08.10.2003 of the management, the employee was relieved from duty with effect from that date; and he was issued with a cheque bearing No.019345 for Rs.6995.85 drawn on UT1 Bank Ltd, Bhubaneswar, towards one month salary in lieu of notice, as per the rules of company and in terms of clause 14 of the appointment issued by the management. It is an admitted fact that without any objection, the employee accepted the said cheque and encashed the same. Hence, there is no violation of procedure on the part of the management in terminating the services of the employee. As already held above, the employee is not a “workman” as covered under section 2(s) and hence, the provisions of the I.D. Act do not apply to him. Resultantly, the contention of the learned senior counsel for the employee qua violation of section 25F coupled with sections 25G and 25H of the I.D. Act, ing reinstatement with full back wages as normal rule, etc., cannot be countenanced by us.