[Paras 145-146, 157, 159] Constitution of India —- Fundamental right —- Breach of — Burden of proof: Held: (per Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, Cul, (for himself and for B R Gavai, J B Pardiwala and Manoj Misra, JJ): Courts 434 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports cannot carve out an exception to the evidentiary principle which is available to the legislature based on the democratic legitimacy which it enjoys — In the challenge to electoral law, like all legislation, the petitioners would have to prima facie prove that the law infringes fundamental rights or constitutional provisions, upon which the onus would shift to the State to justify the infringement [Para 45] — Held: (per Sanjiv Khanna, J.) Once the petitioners are able to prima facie establish a breach of a fundamental right, then the onus is on the State to show that the right limiting measure pursues a proper purpose, has rational nexus with that purpose, the means adopted were necessary for achieving that purpose, and lasily proper balance has been incorporated. [Para 17] Constitution of India — Art. 14 — Doctrine of manifest arbitrariness — Application of: Held: (per Dr Dnhananjaya ४ Chandrachud, Cul.) (for himself and for B R Gavai, J B Pardiwala and Manoj Misra, JJ) Doctrine of manifest arbitrariness can be used to strike down a provision where the legislature fails to make a classification by recognizing the degrees of harm; and the purpose is not in consonance with constitutional values — Legislative action can also be tested for being manifestly arbitrary — There is, and ought to be, a distinction between plenary legislation and subordinate legislation when they are challenged for being manifestly arbitrary — Manifest arbitrariness of a subordinate legislation has to be primarily tested vis-a-vis its conformity with the parent statute — Doctrines/Principles. [Paras 198, 209] Constitution of India — Art 19(1)(a) - Right to information, scope of — Evolution of jurisprudence on right to information: Held: (per Dr Dhananjaya ४ Chandrachud, Cul.) (for himself and for B R Gavai, J B Pardiwala and Manoj Misra, JJ) Right to information can be divided into two phases - In the first phase, the right to information is traced to the values of good governance, transparency and accountability — In the second phase, the importance of information to form views on social, cultural and political issues, and participate in and contribute to discussions is recognised — Crucial aspect of the expansion of the right to information in the second phase is that right to information is not restricted to information about state affairs, that is, public information — It includes information which would be necessary to further [2024] 2 S.C.R. 435 Association for Democratic Reforms & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. participatory democracy in other forms — Right to information has an instrumental exegesis, which recognizes the value of the right in facilitating the realization of democratic goals — Beyond that, it has an intrinsic constitutional value; one that recognizes that it is not just a means to an end but an end in itself.