Unless and until the marriage is performed with appropriate ceremonies and in due form, it cannot be said to be “solemnised”. Further, sub-section (2) of Section 7 states that where such rites and ceremonies include the saptapadi, i.e., the taking of seven steps by the bridegroom and the bride jointly before the sacred fire, the marriage becomes complete and binding when the seventh step is 516 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports taken. Therefore, requisite ceremonies for the solemnisation of the Hindu marriage must be in accordance with the applicable customs or usage and where saptapadi has been adopted, the marriage becomes complete and binding when the seventh step is taken. Where a Hindu marriage is not performed in accordance with the applicable rites or ceremonies such as saptapadi when included, the marriage will not be construed as a Hindu marriage. In other words, for a valid marriage under the Act, the requisite ceremonies have to be performed and there must be proof of performance of the said ceremony when an issue/controversy arise. Unless the parties have undergone such ceremony, there would be no Hindu marriage according to Section 7 of the Act and a mere issuance of a certificate by an entity in the absence of the requisite ceremonies having been performed, would neither confirm any marital status to the parties nor establish a marriage under Hindu law. 16. A perusal of the marriage certificate produced in the instant case along with the application filed under Article 142 of the Constitution of India states that the ‘marriage’ between the parties has been solemnised according to Hindu Vedic rites and customs. The certificate issued by Vadik Jankalyan Samiti (Regd.) in the absence of any indication as to the rites and customs that were performed and as to whether the requirements under Section 7 of the Act was complied with would not be a certificate evidencing a Hindu marriage in accordance with Section 7 of the Act. In the absence of any ceremony being performed such a certificate could not have been issued. It is on the basis of the said certificate that the Marriage Registration Officer has issued under the Uttar Pradesh Marriage Registration Rule, 2017 a certificate stating that the parties had presented before the office on 07.07.2021 and had declared that their marriage was solemnised on the said date at Vadik Jankalyan Samiti (Regd. ), Ghaziabad and on the basis of the said certificate issued by the said entity, the Marriage Registration Officer registered the marriage which is under Section 8 of the Act. Section 8 of the Act reads as under: “8. Registration of Hindu marriages.— (1) For the purpose of facilitating the proof of Hindu marriages, the State Government may make rules providing that the parties to any such marriage may have the particulars relating [2024] 5 S.C.R. 517 Dolly Rani v. Manish Kumar Chanchal to their marriage entered in such manner and subject to such conditions as may be prescribed in a Hindu Marriage Register kept for the purpose.