Therefore, there is pressing need to consider the social, economic and political need of all persons or classes of persons. In the context of India, the trinity of social, economic and political justice has to be balanced and to promote social justice, provisions have to be made for the upliftment of the so-called marginalized citizens or the depressed classes of persons who later came to be known as backward class of persons and scheduled castes as well as scheduled tribes etc. It is to achieve the above social objective of bringing every citizen or a class of citizen on equal level and at par in law that provision for reservation came to be made in the Constitution. 12. The provision for reservation for any class of persons at first sight may appear to be anti-merit but if weighed on the scales of social justice, it is imperative. 13. The poor and the downtrodden sections of the Indian society were earlier described by the ruling class as the “depressed classes” which included a wide range of persons such as untouchables, persons of various backward communities and those living in tribes in hills and forests or in remote areas of the country. Slowly, these depressed classes of persons came to be classified into various groups according to their vocation such as scavengers, leather workers, ironsmiths, carpenters, watchman and other menial workers and were referred to as scheduled castes; and those living in tribes in hills, forests or remote areas came to be recognized as scheduled tribes. The remaining depressed classes of persons or marginalized classes were later classified as other backward classes. 14. The Government of India Act, 1935, for the first time, recognized the above referred depressed classes of persons as scheduled castes and the primitive tribes as backward tribes and inter alia provided reservation of seats for the scheduled castes and backward tribes in the federal legislature. The objective was of bringing about political equality only. 15. The Constitution of India as enacted and adopted on 26th November, 1949 and enforced w.e.f. 26th January, 1950, originally provided for [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1649 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. two categories of reservation, one for the political purposes and the other for social purposes vide Articles 330 & 332 and Articles 15(3) & 16(4). 16. Articles 330 and 332 of the Constitution aimed to achieve political justice by providing reservation of seats for scheduled castes and scheduled tribes in Lok Sabha and State Legislatures whereas Article 15(3) and 16(4) were aimed at social justice and provided for special provision for women & children and for reservation in the services in favour of backward classes of persons respectively. AMENDMENTS TO CONSTITUTION WITH REFERENCE TO CASE LAWS 17. On the legislative front, in the wake of various verdicts of the apex court concerning reservation, a constitutional amendment regime commenced bringing about amendments after amendments in the Constitution to overcome the difficulties in the implementation of the reservation policy in the light of the decisions of the courts in context with reservation.