(ii) In Dipak Babaria vs. State of Gujarat, (2014) 3 SCC 502 (“Dipak Babaria”), this Court set aside the sale of agricultural land on the ground that the sale was not in compliance with the statutory procedure prescribed in that regard under the Bombay Tenancy and Agricultural Lands (Vidarbha Region and Kutch area) Act, 1958. The matter was examined on the anvil of the aforestated maxim and it was held that alienation of agricultural land by adopting any alternate procedure to the one prescribed under the Act was necessarily forbidden. (iii) In Kameng Dolo vs. Atum Welly, (2017) 7 SCC 512 (“Kameng Dolo”), election of an unopposed candidate was declared as invalid on the ground that the nomination of his opponent was not withdrawn as per the procedure statutorily mandated. It was held that the nomination of the opposite candidate ought to have been withdrawn in the manner provided for under the relevant statute and withdrawing the same in any other manner was necessarily forbidden. Hence, his election was declared as void. (iv) Similarly, in Tahsildar, Taluk Office, Thanjore vs. G. Thambidurai, (2017) 12 SCC 642 (“Tahsildar”), the assignment of land was cancelled on the ground that statutory requirements were not followed in assigning the land. It was held that when a statute prescribes that a certain Act is to be carried out in [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2113 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. a given manner, the said Act could not be carried out through any mode other than the one statutorily prescribed. (v) It may also be apposite to refer to the decision of this Court in Union of India vs. Charanjit S. Gill, (2000) 5 SCC 742 (“Charanjit S. Gill”), wherein this Court held that any provisions introduced by way of “Notes” appended to the sections of the Army Act, 1950, could not be read as a part of the Act and therefore such “Notes” could not take away any right vested under the said Act. It was observed that issuance of an administrative or a “Note” pertaining to a special type of weapon to bring it within the ambit of the Army Act, which was hitherto not included therein, could not be said to have been included in the manner in which it was supposed to be included. It was noted that the Army Act empowers the Central Government to make rules and regulations for carrying into effect the provisions of the Act; however, no power was conferred upon the Central Government of issuing “Notes” or “issuing s” which could have the effect of the Rules made under the Act. As Rules and Regulations or administrative instructions can neither be supplemented nor substituted by “Notes”, administrative instructions issued or the “Notes” attached to the Rules which are not referable to any statutory authority were not be permitted to bring about a result, which is supposed to be achieved through enactment of Rules. 42.20 What emerges from the above discussion is that when a statute contemplates a specific procedure to be adhered to in to arrive at a desired end, such procedure cannot be substituted by an alternative procedure which is not contemplated under the statute.