However, since the officials of the respondent were in doubt regarding the legality of such action, it insisted on first obtaining the advice or opinion from its legal cell before proceeding further. Furthermore, the aforesaid note clearly indicates that the work stop had to be issued only with a view to comply with the instructions of the competent authority while it decided upon the aspect of cancellation of the tender. 95. In Note #97, the respondent has recorded the following – “There is no different opinion than to get this cancelled, once this has been decided by the Authority but a legal opinion may be sought for avoiding further litigations”. This also clearly indicates that as the competent authority had decided that the tender be cancelled, the officials of the respondent had no other choice but to cancel the tender. However, the respondent continued insisting on first obtaining the opinion from its legal cell before cancelling the same. 96. However, thereafter, as per Note #108 dated 24.01.2023 it is apparent that the concerned minister during his visit specifically instructed the officials of the respondent to cancel the tender. Pursuant to which, the respondent as per Note #109 dated 02.02.2023 immediately convened a meeting to undertake the steps for cancellation even though the advice from the legal cell had yet to be obtained. It thereafter prepared a proposal for cancellation, which culminated into the ultimate notice of cancellation dated 07.02.2023. 97. From the above narrated sequence of events, it is evident that it was none other but the concerned minister who suggested to cancel the tender. The respondent was reluctant to immediately cancel the tender for work and continued to insist on obtaining the opinion from its legal cell. Even though the opinion of the legal cell was yet to be obtained, the respondent, despite its initial reluctance, undertook 598 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports immediate steps to cancel the tender after the concerned minister personally instructed the officials to do so. 98. Thus, it is evident that the Notice of Cancellation dated 07.02.2023, issued to the appellant, was at the behest of the concerned minister. The respondent clearly recorded that, because instructions for cancellation had been received from the higher-ups, there was no option but to proceed with the cancellation. Even before the respondent could properly and thoroughly explore the possibility of acceding to such request by consulting its legal cell, the tender was cancelled only at the instance and specific instructions of the concerned minister. 99. The aforesaid aspect can be looked at from one another angle. The concerned Minister-In-Charge had instructed to cancel the tender in view of the change in policy whereby the operation & maintenance of the underpasses was vested in another authority. To ascertain whether the decision of the concerned minister to cancel the tender was arbitrary or not, we must first consider whether the reason for such cancellation was genuinely on the basis of the aforesaid change in policy or whether it was driven by some personal discretion or motives.