24/16 of the Police Station, Geedam, District Dantewada and after due investigation the report may kindly be submitted before the Hon’ble Court. 10.3 That, this’ Hon’ble Court may be kind enough to issuing a writ in the nature of mandamus, certiorari or likewise any other appropriate writ, commanding and directing respondents No. 2 to 6 to hand over all the records related with the case of death of deceased Ranjana Diwan, wife of Manvendra Singh, the respondent No. 7 for just and proper investigation, enquiry into the matter. 10.4 That, this Hon’ble Court may be kind enough in issuing a writ in the nature of mandamus, certiorari [2024] 9 S.C.R. 91 Mandakini Diwan and Anr. v. The High Court of Chhattisgarh & Ors. or likewise any other appropriate writ, commanding and directing the respondent No. 1 to keep the respondent No. 7 out of the job till the final decision of the case so that there may be no influence In the investigation by the respondent No. 7. 10.5 Any other relief, which the Hon’ble Court deems fit and proper looking to the facts and circumstances of the case, may also be granted.” 4.7. In the petition before the High Court, respondent no. 1 is the High Court of Chhattisgarh, respondent no. 2 is State of Chhattisgarh through Secretary, Department of Home, respondent no. 3 is the Director General of Police, respondent no. 4 is Inspector General of Police Headquarters, respondent no. 5 is Superintendent of Police, Dantewada, respondent no. 6 is Station House Officer, Police Station Geedam, District Dantewada, respondent no. 7 is the husband of the deceased and respondent no. 8 is the Central Bureau of Investigation. 4.8. The said petition remained pending for about seven years. By the impugned the High Court has dismissed the said petition. According to the High Court the appellants had adequate statutory remedy available under section 156(3) of the Cr.P.C. by approaching the Magistrate concerned. 5. The submissions advanced by the counsel for the appellants is that it is true that appellant had a remedy of filing a complaint under section 156(3) Cr.P.C. but considering the fact that the respondent no. 7 is senior judicial officer and had already exercised his influence on the administration in ensuring that FIR is not registered and no free and fair investigation be carried out, they had little hope rather no hope of getting any justice from the Court of a Magistrate who would be an officer subordinate to respondent no. 7. It is for this reason that they had approached the High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution of India. 6. Before us, detailed arguments have been advanced by the appellants to show the high handedness of the respondent no. 7 in influencing the administration in not registering the FIR despite there being suspicious circumstances resulting in the death of daughter of the appellant no. 1 and sister of appellant no. 2, more particularly there 92 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports being no explanation for the six ante mortem injuries.