5. The appellant filed written statement denying the plaint allegations and also raising plea regarding the suit being barred by limitation and also urged that since no relief for declaration had been sought and the suit was only for relief for possession, it was not maintainable. It was specifically averred in the written statement that the land in suit had been donated by Shri Inder Singh for the purpose of establishing a Veterinary Hospital in the year 1958, and possession was also delivered. The State thereafter, from the funds of the State Government, constructed a Veterinary Hospital soon thereafter in the year 1958-59, and since then, the same has been functional. 6. On the basis of the pleadings, the Trial Court framed the following issues: - "1. Whether the plaintiff is owner of the suit land? OPP 2. If issue No.1 is proved, whether the plaintiff is entitled to the decree for possession of the suit land? OPP 3. Whether the suit as framed is not maintainable? OPD 4. Whether the suit is within time ? OPP 5. Relief.” 7. The parties led evidence based on which the Trial Court decreed the suit vide dated 20.05.2003. The findings recorded by the Trial Court are as follows: (i) As the defendant had raised the plea of adverse possession, therefore, they admitted the ownership of the plaintiffs; (ii) There being no document regarding the alleged gift, the same does not stand proved; [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2439 The State of Punjab and Ors. v. Bhagwantpal Singh Alias Bhagwant Singh (Deceased) Through Lrs. (iii) The mere resolutions of the Municipal Council are not sufficient to prove that the land had been donated by the father of the plaintiff. 8. The Appellant-State preferred an appeal which was registered as C.A. No.44 of 2003. The Additional District Judge allowed the appeal of the appellant-State setting aside the of the Trial Court and dismissed the suit. The findings recorded by the Appellate Court are as follows: (i) The fact that the Veterinary Hospital had been established in 1958-59 and it was being run ever since then, the filing of the suit after more than four decades was barred by time. (ii) The owner of the property having allowed the State to take possession, construct the Veterinary Hospital, and run the same over the land in suit since 1958-59 itself proves that the land had been actually donated by Shri Inder Singh, father of the original plaintiff. (iii) Shri Inder Singh, during his lifetime, having never agitated about the construction of the hospital or the existence of the hospital building over the land in suit, also reflects that he had, in fact, donated the land in suit. (iv) The plaintiff, having admitted that, he had been witnessing the Veterinary Hospital being run over the land in suit since 1981 but did not take any steps thereafter also proves that, in fact, ownership had been transferred to the State in 1958 itself. 9. Aggrieved by the same, the plaintiff-respondent preferred a second appeal before the High Court registered as RSA No.447 of 2004.