Digital Supreme Court Reports application of manifest arbitrariness to a plenary legislation passed by a competent legislation requires the Court to adopt a different standard because it carries greater immunity than a subordinate legislation. We concur with Shayara Bano (supra) that a legislative action can also be tested for being manifestly arbitrary. However, we wish to clarify that there is, and ought to be, a distinction between plenary legislation and subordinate legislation when they are challenged for being manifestly arbitrary. ll. Validity of Section 154 of the Finance Act 2017 omitting the first proviso to Section 182 of the Companies Act 199. We now turn to examine the vires of Section 154 of the Finance Act 2017. The result of the amendment is that: (a) a company, other than a government company and a company which has been in existence for less than three financial years, can contribute unlimited amounts to any political party; and (b) companies, regardless of the fact whether they are profit making or otherwise, can contribute funds to political parties. The issue that arises for consideration is whether the removal of contribution restrictions is manifestly arbitrary and violates Article 14 of the Constitution. 200. As discussed in the earlier section, this Court has consistently pointed out the pernicious effect of money on the integrity of the electoral process in India. The Law Commission of India in its 170" Report also observed that “most business houses already know where their interest lies and they make their contributions accordingly to that political party which is likely to advance their interest more.” This issue becomes particularly problematic when we look at the avenues through which political parties accumulate their capital. Section 182 of the 2013 Act is one such legal provision allowing companies to contribute to political parties. The question before us is not how political parties expend their financial resources, but how they acquire their financial resources in the first instance. 201. The Preamble to the Constitution describes India as a “democratic republic”: a democracy in which citizens are guaranteed political equality irrespective of caste and class and where the value of 209 Law Commission of India, 170th Report on the Reform of the Electoral Laws (1999) [2024] 2 S.C.R. 551 Association for Democratic Reforms & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. every vote is equal. Democracy does not begin and end with elections. Democracy sustains because the elected are responsive to the electors who hold them accountable for their actions and inactions. Would we remain a democracy if the elected do not heed to the hue and cry of the needy? We have established the close relationship between money and politics above where we explained the importance of money for entry to politics, for winning elections, and for remaining in power. That being the case, the question that we ask ourselves is whether the elected would truly be responsive to the electorate if companies which bring with them huge finances and engage in quid pro quo arrangements with parties are permitted to contribute unlimited amounts.