d) Group C.1 covers a case where an SLP was dismissed in limine in the first round, and now an SLP (now Civil Appeal, leave having been granted by us) is pending before us in the second round. In this particular case, the land acquisition proceedings would lapse following the test laid down in Manoharlal [5-Judge, lapse] (supra) as the twin conditions under section 24(2) of the 2013 Act are met [non-payment of compensation to the landowners together with failure of the State to take physical possession of the acquired lands]. e) Group C.2 covers a case where an SLP was dismissed in limine in the first round, and now an SLP (now Civil Appeal, leave having been granted by us) is pending before us in the second round. In this particular case, land acquisition proceedings would not lapse following the test laid down in Manoharlal [5-Judge, lapse] (supra) as the twin conditions under section 24(2) of the 2013 Act are not met. f) Group C.3 involves cases where during pendency of the SLP in the first round, the appellants approached this Court with a fresh SLP owing to a change in law. While in some cases both the SLPs (now Civil Appeals) are pending before us in the present batch, in some cases, the other SLP is pending separately and is not part of the present batch. There are also a few cases where there is only one SLP filed and the same is now pending as a Civil Appeal in the present batch after grant of leave. g) Group D are miscellaneous matters which have been tagged incorrectly with the present batch and they follow separate [2024] 5 S.C.R. 1175 Government of NCT of Delhi & Anr. v. M/s BSK Realtors LLP & Anr. directions. Group D also involves cases where no notice has been issued by this Court till date. h) Cases falling under Group E generally involve allegations related to subsequent sale transactions by landowners. There are certain cases where this position is admitted. Some cases also include allegations regarding the ownership title of the land in question. Additionally, in a few instances, the appellants claim that the land in question is vested in Gaon Sabha, a fact which the landowners and affected parties have suppressed. These cases require thorough fact-finding, as determined later, and are therefore addressed separately. Cases categorized under Group E may overlap with Groups A to C (excluding Group B.2, which we propose to dismiss as infructuous infra). As a result, any directions issued under Group E are intended exclusively for that category alone, and such cases shall be automatically excluded from the purview of Groups A to C. For added clarity, it is stated that all cases falling under Group E are proposed to be remitted to the High Court, regardless of their classification within the aforementioned categories. i) We set out hereinbelow in tabular form the cases covered by the aforesaid groups: TOTAL SUB- NUMBER GROUP DESCRIPTION GROUPS OF CASES GROUP A Not M.A.s filed by the appellants- 2 (M.A.s) Applicable authorities primarily pleading change in law and seeking recall of the s and s of this Court dismissing the Civil Appeals and/or Review Petitions in the first round.