In Johnson, the Court held that, on remand, Johnson could be retried on the conspiracy-to-defraud count, so long as evidence concerning his speech on the House floor was not admitted. […].” (emphasis supplied) The Court therefore rejected the idea that anything having a nexus to legislative functions would automatically attract immunity under the Speech and Debate Clause of the US Constitution. 150. In Gavel v. United States,73 certain secret documents were made part of the record of a sub-committee hearing in the US Senate by Senator Gavel. He then published the entire document in a private publication. An aide to the Senator was subpoenaed by the grand jury which was investigating the matter. The question which arose for consideration of the US Supreme Court was whether the aide of the Senator enjoyed any immunity under the Speech and Debate Clause and to what extent could he be questioned. The US Supreme Court held that given the expansive nature of legislative work, an aide to a member of Congress would be protected under the Speech and Debate Clause but only to the extent that it pertained to aiding the legislator in discharge of his legislative functions. The Court further held that private publication of the document was not a necessary part of the functions of the Senator and no immunity would extend in that regard. The Court held that: 73 408 US 606 (1972) [2024] 3 S.C.R. 559 Sita Soren v. Union of India “26. Legislative acts are not all-encompassing. The heart of the Clause is speech or debate in either House. Insofar as the Clause is construed to reach other matters, they must be an integral part of the deliberative and communicative processes by which Members participate in committee and House proceedings with respect to the consideration and passage or rejection of proposed legislation or with respect to other matters which the Constitution places within the jurisdiction of either House. As the Court of Appeals put it, the courts have extended the privilege to matters beyond pure speech or debate in either House, but ‘only when necessary to prevent indirect impairment of such deliberations.’ United States v. Doe, 455 F.2d, at 760. … 27. Here, private publication by Senator Gravel through the cooperation of Beacon Press was in no way essential to the deliberations of the Senate; nor does questioning as to private publication threaten the integrity or independence of the Senate by impermissibly exposing its deliberations to executive influence. The Senator had conducted his hearings; the record and any report that was forthcoming were available both to his committee and the Senate. Insofar as we are advised, neither Congress nor the full committee ed or authorized the publication. [ The sole constitutional claim asserted here is based on the Speech or Debate Clause. We need not address issues that may arise when Congress or either House, as distinguished from a single Member, s the publication and/or public distribution of committee hearings, reports, or other materials. Of course, Art. I, § 5, cl.