457 Khalsa University and Another v. The State of Punjab and Another also had caused serious unemployment amongst a certain section of the community. On account of such an emergency, a situation had arisen which rendered it necessary to make a special provision for the proper management and administration of the Sholapur Mill. The aforesaid Ordinance was subsequently re-enacted in the form of an Act of the Legislature called the Sholapur Spinning and Weaving Company (Emergency Provisions) Act, 1950.13 The net result of the Sholapur Mill Act was that the Managing Agents of the Sholapur Mill were dismissed and the Directors holding the office automatically vacated their office. 27. The Sholapur Mill Act was challenged on various grounds. One of the grounds was that since the application of the said Act was found to affect only one person, it was, therefore, plainly discriminatory in character and within the constitutional inhibition of Article 14 of the Constitution. The said ground was rejected by the Constitution Bench by a majority of 3:2. 28. One of the arguments that was made before this Court was that there would be other companies wherein similar allegations of mis- management and neglect would be available. It was sought to be argued that the provisions of the Companies Act were sufficient to deal with the said situation. However, the passing of an enactment whereby the Sholapur Mill was singled out for giving a “special treatment” was not permissible under Article 14 of the Constitution. While rejecting the said contention, Saiyid Fazl Ali, J. (one of the Judges forming part of the majority) observed thus: “…….The Government of India, as a matter of precaution and lest it should be said that they were going to interfere unnecessarily in the affairs of the Company and were not allowing the existing provisions of the law to take their own course, consulted other interests and placed the matter before the Standing Committee of the Industrial Advisory Council where a large number of leading industrialists of the country were present, and ultimately it was realised that this was a case where the Government could rightly and properly intervene and there would be no occasion for any criticism coming from any quarter. It appears 13 Hereinafter referred to as “Sholapur Mill Act”. 458 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports from the discussion on the floor of the House that the total number of weaving and spinning mills which were closed down for one reason or the other was about 35 in number. Some of them are said to have closed for want of cotton, some due to overstocks, some for want of capital and some on account of mismanagement. The Minister for Industry, who sponsored the Bill, in explaining what distinguished the case of Sholapur Mill from the other mills against whom there might be charges of mismanagement, made it clear in the course of the debate that “certain conditions had to be fulfilled before the Government can and should intervene”, and he set out these conditions as follows: (1) The undertaking must relate to an industry which is of national importance.