It ensures that litigants 1702 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports are not subjected to repetitive and vexatious legal challenges. At its core, the principle stipulates that all claims and issues that could and should have been raised in an earlier proceeding are barred from being raised in subsequent litigation, except in exceptional circumstances. This rule not only supports the finality of s but also underscores the ideals of judicial propriety and fairness. 145. There are, four situations where in second proceedings between the same parties doctrine res judicata as a corollary of the principle of abuse of process may be invoked: (i) cause of action estoppel, where the entirety of a decided cause of action is sought to be relitigated; (ii) issue estoppel or, “decided issue estoppel,” where an issue is sought to be relitigated which has been raised and decided as a fundamental step in arriving at the earlier judicial decision; (iii) extended or constructive res judicata i.e., “unraised issue estoppel,” where an issue is sought to be litigated which could, and should, have been raised in a previous action but was not raised; (iv) a further extension of the aforesaid to points not raised in relation to an issue in the earlier decision, as opposed to issues not raised in relation to the decision itself. 146. As part of the broader rule against abuse of process, the Henderson principle is rooted in the idea of preventing the judicial process from being exploited in any manner that tends to undermine its integrity. This idea of preventing abuse of judicial process is not confined to specific procedure rules, but rather aligned to a broader purport of giving quietus to litigation and finality to judicial decisions. The essence of this rule is that litigation must be conducted in good faith, and parties should not engage in procedural tactics that fragment disputes, prolong litigation, or undermine the outcomes of such litigation. It is not a rigid rule but rather a flexible principle to prevent oppressive, unfair, or detrimental litigation. 147. We are conscious of the fact, that ordinarily this principle has been applied to instances where a particular plea or ground was not raised at any stage of the proceedings, but were later sought to be raised. However, it must be borne in mind that construing this rule in a hyper- technical manner or through any strait-jacket formula will amount to taking a reductive view of this broad and comprehensive principle. 148. Although in the present case, the Borrower had raised the issue of the validity of the measures taken by the Bank under the SARFAESI [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1703 Celir LLP v. Mr. Sumati Prasad Bafna & Ors. Act and the legality of the 9th auction conducted it in the earlier stages albeit in a different proceeding, yet its conduct of having conveniently abandoned the same in a different proceeding elected by it for the same cause of action and then later reagitating it in the pretence that the two proceedings were distinct, is nothing but a textbook case of abuse of process of law.