9.5 What we need to consider is as to whether the timeline for the conclusion of inquiry as envisaged under Section 14 is mandatory or directory? 9.6 As per the scheme of Section 14 of the Act, sub-section (1) thereof provides that, when a CCL is produced before the Board, after holding inquiry, it may pass in relation to such CCL as it deems fit under Section 17 and 18 of the Act. 9.7 Section 17 of the Act envisages the regarding a child not found to be in conflict with the law. Whereas Section 18 (1) envisages an passed in case a child is found to be in conflict with law. It includes child of the age of 16 years and above, who is involved in a heinous offence, but inquiry to be conducted by the Board. 9.8 Section 14(2) of the Act provides that the inquiry as envisaged under Section 14(1) thereof shall be completed within a period of four months from the date of first production of the child before the Board. The time is extendable by the Board for a maximum period of two months, for the reasons to be recorded. The consequences of non-conclusion of any such inquiry have been provided in Section 14(4) of the Act, only with reference to petty offences. The aforesaid sub-section provides that if inquiry by the Board under sub-section (2) for petty offences remains inconclusive even after the extended period, the proceedings shall stand terminated. Proviso to the aforesaid sub-section provides that in case the Board requires further extension of time for completion of inquiry into serious and heinous offences, the same shall be granted by the Chief Judicial Magistrate or, [2024] 5 S.C.R. 791 Child in Conflict with Law Through his Mother v. The State of Karnataka and Another as the case may be, the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, for reasons to be recorded in writing. 9.9 Meaning thereby that as far as inquiry of CCL, as envisaged under Section 14(1) of the Act, by the Board for heinous offences is concerned, there is no deadline after which either the inquiry cannot be proceeded further or has to be terminated. 9.10 Now coming to the issue in hand. It is not in dispute that the CCL has allegedly committed a heinous offences. The argument is with reference to the period provided for the conclusion of preliminary assessment under Section 15 of the Act and passing of an under Section 15(2) or 18(3) of the Act, namely as to whether the matter is to be enquired into by the Board or is to be transferred to the Children’s Court for trial of the CCL as an adult. 9.11 We may add here that apparently the placement of Section 18(3) does not seem to be appropriate. Sub-sections (1) and (2) of Section 18 deal with final s to be passed by the Board on inquiry against the CCL, whereas sub-section (3) envisages passing of an by the Board as to whether the trial of CCL is to be conducted by the Children’s Court in terms of preliminary assessment, as envisaged in Section 15 thereof.