Sub-section (2) of Section 18 provides that without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, rules may provide for all or any of the matters specified therein, which includes regulating the award of minor punishment under Section 11, and providing for appeals from, or the revision of, s under that section, or remission of fines imposed under that section. Rule 27 of the Central Reserve Police Force Rules, 19555, specifies the procedure for the award of punishments. Clause (a) of Rule 27 enumerates in a tabular form the punishments which could be imposed and the authority competent to impose such punishments. At serial no.4, under column no.2, in the table, the punishment of compulsory retirement is mentioned as being one of the punishments that may be imposed by the Commandant after a formal departmental enquiry. Thus, in light of the provisions of Section 11 of the CRPF Act read with Rule 27 of the CRPF Rules, and by taking into consideration that charges were duly proved in the enquiry, the punishment of compulsory retirement was fully justified. 6. The Division Bench of the High Court, however, found no merit in the writ appeal and dismissed the same accordingly. 7. In these circumstances, the appellants are before this Court questioning the impugned and of the High Court. 5 CRPF Rules 436 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 8. We have heard Ms. Aishwarya Bhati, learned Additional Solicitor General, appearing for the appellants, and Mr. Anand Shankar, learned counsel, appearing for the respondent. Submissions on behalf of the appellants 9. Ms. Bhati, learned counsel for the appellants, inter alia, submitted: (i) The only ground pressed by the original petitioner was that the punishment of compulsory retirement is not imposable as it is not provided for in Section 11 of the CRPF Act, which is nothing but misconceived; (ii) The High Court while accepting the above ground failed to consider: (a) Section 116 of the CRPF Act is expressly made subject to any rules made under the Act. Section 187 of the 6 11. Minor punishments— (1) The Commandant or any other authority or officer as may be prescribed, may, subject to any rules made under this Act, award in lieu of, or in addition to, suspension or dismissal any one or more of the following punishments to any member of the Force whom he considers to be guilty of disobedience, neglect of duty, or remissness in the discharge of any duty or of other misconduct in his capacity as a member of the Force, that is to say,— (a) reduction in rank; (b) fine of any amount not exceeding one month’s pay and allowances; (c) confinement to quarters, lines or camp for a term not exceeding one month; (d) confinement in the quarter-guard for not more than twenty-eight days, with or without punishment drill or extra guard, fatigue or other duty; and (e) removal from any office of distinction or special emolument in the Force. (2) Any punishment specified in clause (c) or clause (d) of sub-section (1) may be awarded by any gazetted officer when in command of any detachment of the Force away from headquarters, provided he is specially authorised in this behalf by the commandant.