To ensure that these guidelines remain practical for implementation, salient features of the guidelines have been discussed with the Nodal Officer for Cruise Tourism and the other Stakeholders.” Accessibility Standards and Guidelines for Civil Aviation This document is a foundation stone in achieving accessible airports. It’s true success shall be seen in the implementation at various airports resulting in more safe, inclusive and convenient customer experience and we believe that it will happen over time.” (Emphasis Supplied) 71. The above extracts indicate that these two documents also do not envisage mandatory rules and instead appear to be recommendatory guidelines. The Accessibility Standards in the Port Sector are conceived as “illustrative”, and “non-conclusive” and only as “broad guidelines” for both new construction and retrofitting. It is difficult to fathom how a document which is only illustrative and contains broad guidelines, can be mandatorily enforced, with consequences such as fines and withholding of completion certificates. Similarly, the Accessibility Standards and Guidelines for Civil Aviation also indicate that they seek to be achieved “over time”. As noted above, Section 44, which deals with new buildings, requires immediate compliance and Sections 45 and 46, which deal with existing infrastructure prescribe fixed timelines. Guidelines which are aspirational and require compliance “over time” run contrary to this legislative intent. Some other guidelines and documents prescribed in Rule 15(1), do state that they are “mandatory codes”, however, this segregation between mandatory and discretionary guidelines has not been carried out. 72. Further, not only do several of these documents themselves state that they are guidelines or aspirational principles, but the NALSAR- 1010 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports CDS report indicates that even if this nomenclature is ignored, they cannot be practically enforced as mandatory rules. This is because inter alia several of these guidelines contain different standards for the same or similar accessibility requirements and allegedly contain technical errors. For instance, with regard to “accessible toilets”, almost all the guidelines contain different requirements – both in terms of requirements and measurements. For instance, there is a difference in the requirements stipulated in HG 2021 and Accessibility Standards and Guidelines for Civil Aviation with regard to accessible toilets.76 It is difficult to fathom, therefore, which of the two requirements is “mandatory” to follow. 73. It is trite law that the legislature cannot abdicate essential legislative functions to the delegated authority. The legislature can entrust subsidiary or ancillary legislation to the delegate. However, before such delegation, the legislature should enunciate the policy and the principles for the guidance of the delegated authority. As a corollary, the delegated authority must carry out its rule-making functions within the framework of the law. The delegated legislation must be consistent with the law under which it is made and cannot go beyond the limits of policy and standards laid down in the law.77 74. Rule 15, in its current form, does not provide for non-negotiable compulsory standards, but only persuasive guidelines. While the intention of the RPWD Act to use compulsion is clear, the RPWD Rules have transformed into self-regulation by way of delegated legislation.