40. At this stage, it is necessary for us to discuss the purport of Section 101 of the 2013 Act. The instant section was introduced in the 2013 Act for the first time as a beneficial provision for the landowners whose lands were usurped but remained unutilized or were not used in accordance with the purpose stated in the notifications under Section 4. However, the application of the Section is warranted only in the circumstances where the return of the land would benefit the landowners. The party which has failed to utilize the land cannot plead for the return of the land and consequent refund of the compensation paid, as that would tantamount to taking advantage of its own wrong or default. C. Impugned of the High Court 41. The High Court directed the Appellant herein to pay compensation amount determined under the Supplementary Award at the first instance and if permissible, recover the same from JAL. 42. We find that the High Court’s reasoning for passing such a direction is unsustainable for the following reasons: i. The High Court has referred to Clause 7.1 of the Scheme but has not applied it correctly in any manner, thereby ignoring the Scheme of Arrangement between the parties. ii. The High Court has also recorded that JAL has been taken over by the Appellant herein and that the Appellant had made payment of compensation under the Award No. 1 of 2018 dated 08.06.2018. We find that these are incorrect facts on the basis of the materials presented to us by the parties to this appeal. JAL has only transferred the cement project and clinkerisation business to the Appellant by way of the Scheme and is still existing independently of the Appellant’s control in respect of its other functions. [2024] 9 S.C.R. 467 M/s Ultra-Tech Cement Ltd. v. Mast Ram & Ors. The documents on record also show that it was JAL that had made payments under the Award of 2018 and not the Appellant. iii. The High Court failed to consider that the ownership of the subject land continued to be with JAL despite the Scheme being brought into effect on 29.06.2017. The Appellant cannot be directed to make payment of the amount determined by the Supplementary Award for the portions of land which are neither in its ownership nor possession. iv. The High Court also failed to consider the of this Court in Tonnu Ram (supra) dated 16.12.2019 which imposed a duty on the executing court to examine the purport of the Scheme propounded by the NCLT and pass s strictly in consonance therewith. It was held that it would be open to the Appellant to take support of the relevant provisions of the Scheme in support of the argument that the liability to pay the dues remains with JAL as per the stated scheme. D. Role of the State under Article 300-A of the Constitution 43. The Right to Property in our country is a net of intersecting rights which has been explained by this Court in Kolkata Municipal Corporation & Anr.