One such exceptional circumstance led to the decision in Alisha Khan v. Indian Bank (Allahabad Bank) [2021 SCC OnLine SC 3340], where this Court intervened and granted relief because, due to COVID complications, the appellant had failed to pay the balance amount. xxx xxx xxx 24. The up-shot of the aforesaid discussion is that whenever a challenge is laid to an of forfeiture made by an authorized officer under sub-rule (5) of rule 9 of the Rules by a bidder, who has failed to deposit the entire sale price within ninety days, the tribunals/courts ought to be extremely reluctant to interfere unless, of course, a very exceptional case for interference is set up. What would constitute a very exceptional case, however, must be determined by the tribunals/courts on the facts of each case and by recording cogent reasons for the conclusion reached. Insofar as challenge to an of forfeiture that is made upon rejection of an application for extension of time prior to expiry of ninety days and within the stipulated period is concerned, the scrutiny could be a bit more intrusive for ascertaining whether any patent arbitrariness [2024] 2 S.C.R. 89 The Authorised Officer, Central Bank of India v. Shanmugavelu or unreasonableness in the decision-making process has had the effect of vitiating the under challenge. However, in course of such scrutiny, the tribunals/courts must be careful and cautious and direct their attention to examine each case in some depth to locate whether there is likelihood of any hidden interest of the bidder to stall the sale to benefit the defaulting borrower and must, as of necessity, weed out claims of bidders who instead of genuine interest to participate in the auctions do so to rig prices with an agenda to withdraw from the fray post conclusion of the bidding process. In course of such determination, the tribunals/courts ought not to be swayed only by supervening events like a subsequent sale at a higher price or at the same price offered by the defaulting bidder or that the secured creditor has not in the bargain suffered any loss or by sentiments and should stay at a distance since extending sympathy, grace or compassion are outside the scope of the relevant legislation. In any event, the underlying principle of least intervention by tribunals/courts and the overarching objective of the SARFAESI Act duly complimented by the Rules, which are geared towards efficient and speedy recovery of debts, together with the interpretation of the relevant laws by this Court should not be lost sight of. Losing sight thereof may not be in the larger interest of the nation and susceptible to interference.” (Emphasis supplied) 117. Thus, this Court held that where extraneous conditions exist that might have led to the inability of the successful auction purchaser despite best efforts from depositing the balance amount to no fault of its own, in such cases the earnest-money deposited by such innocent successful auction purchaser could certainly be asked to be refunded. 118. In the case at hand, it is the respondent’s case that he was unable to make the balance payment owing to the advent of the demonetisation.