It is alleged that while the other two accused persons held the informant’s son, the appellant hacked the knife forcibly on the left side of his neck. The informant’s son was taken to the hospital, where he was declared dead. Hence, the FIR by PW-1. 3.2 Upon registration of the FIR, the investigation was taken over by Vijaya Kumar (Inspector of Police) (PW-19). PW-19 went to the scene of crime, he prepared the observation mahazar (Ex. P-18) and a rough sketch (Ex. P-19) and also recovered the material objects (M.O.-12 and M.O.-13) in the presence of witnesses. He, thereafter, proceeded to the hospital and prepared the inquest report (Ex. P-21). Based on the confession of the appellant, the knife (M.O.-1) was recovered by Nagarajan, Inspector of Police (PW-18), who had taken over part of the investigation in the absence of PW-19 for a short period. The statements of all the witnesses were recorded by PW-19 and after completion of investigation, on 17th August 2015, the final report was filed before Judicial Magistrate, Sathankulam. 3.3 Since the case was exclusively triable by the Sessions Court, it was committed to the trial court. The trial court framed charges against the accused persons. To bring home the guilt of accused persons, the prosecution examined 19 witnesses, marked 23 documents and 13 material objects. No witness was examined and no document was marked on the side of the defence. The trial court, upon consideration of the facts and circumstances of the case and after analyzing the oral and documentary evidence, by and dated 17th November 2017 came to the conclusion that the prosecution has proved the case beyond reasonable doubt and proceeded to convict and sentence the accused persons. Insofar as the appellant is concerned, the trial court held that he is guilty of [2024] 12 S.C.R. 773 George v. The State of Tamil Nadu and Others offences punishable under Sections 294(b), 341, 302 and 506(2) of the IPC and sentenced him to undergo simple imprisonment for three months for the offence under Section 294(b) IPC, to undergo simple imprisonment for one month for the offence under Section 341 IPC and to undergo life imprisonment and to pay fine of Rs.50,000/- in default to undergo two years simple imprisonment for the offence under Section 302 IPC and to undergo simple imprisonment for two years for the offence under Section 506(ii) IPC. 3.4 Aggrieved thereby, the accused persons, including the appellant, filed an appeal before the High Court. Vide impugned and , the High Court, partly allowed the appeal qua the appellant. While sustaining the conviction and sentence for the offence under Sections 294(b), 341, and 302 IPC, the High Court acquitted the appellant for the charge under Section 506(ii) IPC. Aggrieved thereby, the appellant filed the present appeal by way of special leave. 4. We have heard Shri S. Nagamuthu, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant and Shri N.R. Elango, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the State of Tamil Nadu.