The contention of the learned counsel for the appellants that the claim made by the respondent for refund of overcharge, therefore, must fail.” (Emphasis supplied) 51. In Rajasthan State Electricity Board v. Union of India reported in AIR 2001 Bom 310, the freight was initially being charged on an inflated distance rate as fixed by the Central Government. Later the freight was fixed to be charged on the actual distance, however, the railway continued charging freight as per the old inflated distance under a mistaken belief that the same was still applicable. The High Court prima-facie was of the view that the refund of the difference in freight was an overcharge and thus barred by Section 106(3) of the Act, 1989. However, the High Court relegated the petitioners therein to avail the statutory remedy and dismissed the writ petition leaving all issues open for determination by the Railway Claims Tribunal. The relevant observations read as under: - “2. The facts of the case, which are not in dispute, are:— Petitioners, Rajasthan State Electricity Board, are an autonomous public body, wholly owned and controlled by the State Government of Rajasthan. For the generation of electricity at their Thermal Power Station at Kota (Rajasthan), coal is transported from collieries situate in areas covered by the Eastern and South Eastern Railways to a station called Gurla, situate in Kota Division of the Western Railway. Between the 4th March, 1992 and 31st December, 1992, the Petitioners booked 248 rakes for carrying coal to Gurla. The routes on which these wagons were transported include a section of Central Railway, viz., Katni-Singrauli. In exercise of powers under section 71 of the Railways Act, 1989, the Central Government had imposed, for movement of coal wagons over this section “inflated distance rate” of freight. Consequently, for the coal wagons moved by the petitioners, the freight included the inflated distance rate for this particular section of Katni- Singrauli. For the wagons booked by the petitioners, freight was paid at Gurla Station of Kota Division of the Western Railway. The Railway Authorities charged the petitioners 1098 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports freight on the basis of inflated distance rate over Katni- Singrauli section upto 31st December, 1992, but from the 1st January, 1993, the Railways started charging freight on the basis of actual distance for Katni-Singrauli section, instead of inflated distance rate, and the petitioners paid the charges on that basis. xxx xxx xxx 9. It was submitted on behalf of the Petitioners that sub- section (3) of section 106 of the Railways Act, 1989 is not attracted in the facts of this case-inasmuch as there was no dispute regarding the over-charge. The instant case was a case of collection of inflated distance charge without authority of law. It was submitted that there is a distinction between over-charge and a wrong charge. It was, therefore, submitted that the Petitioners were not required to give notice as contemplated by sub-section (3) of section 106 of the Railways Act, 1989, since the claim was not a claim for refund of an overcharge in respect of goods carried by railway.