No undertrial can be detained indefinitely pending trial. Once it is obvious that a timely trial would not be possible and the accused has suffered incarceration for 4 (2021) 3 SCC 723 5 (2021) SCC Online SC 50 [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1065 Sheikh Javed Iqbal @ Ashfaq Ansari @ Javed Ansari v. State of Uttar Pradesh a significant period of time, the courts would ordinarily be obligated to enlarge them on bail. 27.2. Referring to the decision of this Court in NIA Vs. Zahoor Ahmad Shah Watali,6 this Court opined that the High Court in that case had virtually conducted a mini trial and determined admissibility of certain evidence which clearly exceeded the limited scope of a bail proceeding. Not only was it beyond the statutory mandate of prima-facie assessment under Section 43D(5) of the UAP Act, it was premature and possibly would have prejudiced the trial as well. It was in these circumstances that this Court in Zahoor Ahmad Shah Watali (supra) had to intervene leading to cancellation of the bail granted. 28. We are in respectful agreement with the reasoning given in K.A. Najeeb (supra) regarding the decision in Zahoor Ahmad Shah Watali (supra). This decision i.e. Zahoor Ahmad Shah Watali (supra) has to be read and understood in the context in which it was rendered and not as a precedent to deny bail to an accused-undertrial suffering long incarceration with no end in sight of the criminal trial. 29. Going back to K.A. Najeeb (supra), this Court thereafter proceeded to hold that Section 43D(5) of the UAP Act does not oust the ability of the constitutional courts to grant bail on grounds of violation of Part III of the Constitution. Long incarceration with the unlikelihood of the trial being completed in the near future is a good ground to grant bail. This Court also distinguished Section 43D(5) of the UAP Act from Section 37 of the NDPS Act. It has been held as follows: 17. It is thus clear to us that the presence of statutory restrictions like Section 43-D(5) of the UAPA per se does not oust the ability of the constitutional courts to grant bail on grounds of violation of Part III of the Constitution. Indeed, both the restrictions under a statute as well as the powers exercisable under constitutional jurisdiction can be well harmonised. Whereas at commencement of proceedings, the courts are expected to appreciate the legislative policy against grant of bail but the rigours of such provisions will melt down where there is no likelihood 6 (2019) 5 SCC 1 1066 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of trial being completed within a reasonable time and the period of incarceration already undergone has exceeded a substantial part of the prescribed sentence. Such an approach would safeguard against the possibility of provisions like Section 43-D(5) of the UAPA being used as the sole metric for denial of bail or for wholesale breach of constitutional right to speedy trial. 18. Adverting to the case at hand, we are conscious of the fact that the charges levelled against the respondent are grave and a serious threat to societal harmony.