The respondent alleged that it had to sign the final discharge voucher as it was badly in need of money. The respondent further stated in its letter that it had been unable to take any action due to non-receipt of the surveyor’s report. The appellant refused to accept the letter and returned it back to the respondent. The contents of the letter are reproduced hereinbelow: “Date:- 25/10/2019 To, The Manager, SBI General Insurance Company, Ahmedabad. Subject: - Fire claim no.513768 for loss dated 28/05/2018. Respected Sir, In connection to the above, we have requested you to provide the copy of the complete survey report along with all enclosures thereof to enable us to understand the calculations made by the surveyor to arrive at the gross and net loss / damage. Please note that despite our 852 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports request, we have not received the copy of survey report, which shows your arrogant approach. At this stage, we wish to inform you that you have taken our consent on the amount assessed by the surveyor. We have signed the working sent by you. During the said period, there was another fire in our factory, in which the entire stock, building, plant and machinery have been damaged and we were badly in need of money, hence considering you being a reputed insurance company, you must have examined the assessment made by the surveyor and on that trust bearing in mind, we have signed the working sheet of assessments and voucher is also signed by us in your office as you have informed that we would get the payment immediately. But the same was also delayed beyond reasonable time. Now, since our auditors and bankers would like to know the grounds considering which, the balance amount of our claim is not considered by you / surveyor, you are once again requested to provide the copy of survey report along with all the documents submitted to you by the surveyor, based on which, the claim has been settled and paid by you. Since we have not received the copy of surveyor report, we are unable to take further action. Once again, you are requested to provide the copy of survey report along with all enclosures thereof. Please consider this letter as a notice. Yours Faithfully For KRISH SPINNING” 16. The respondent, on the same day, sent an email to the appellant with a copy of the aforesaid letter calling upon the respondent to take appropriate and necessary action. The contents of the said email are reproduced hereinbelow: “Sir, This is in reference to the above subject, today at around 04:00 pm, or personnel visited your office to hand over a letter requesting you to provide the complete survey report [2024] 7 S.C.R. 853 SBI General Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Krish Spinning of our fire claim no.-513768 for loss dated 28/05/2018. You, in turn returned the letter without accepting it, asking to get the letter signed by our Mr. Ashwinkumar N. Kacha and resubmit the same.