Constitutional Court and the Environmental Rule of Law: 28. Before I proceed further in the matter, it would be necessary to know the role of the Constitutional Court in matters concerning science and technology and environment. The observations of this Court in the following cases are noted as under: (i) On the aspect of the approach of the Constitutional Courts towards questions arising in the realm of science and environment, this Court has time and again struck a balance between exercising restraint and answering questions arising in the realm of pure science by, inter alia, placing reliance on the principle of sustainable development, precautionary principle and polluter pays principle. This Court has not only incorporated progressive ideals and frameworks to strengthen the process of sustainable development but has repeatedly emphasised the contours of its adjudication in concerns touching upon environment. However, growth of jurisprudence in environmental rule of law provides ample guidance for the present adjudication. (ii) In Hanuman Laxman Aroskar vs. Union of India, (2019) 15 SCC 401 (“Hanuman Laxman Aroskar”), this Court recognised the need to imbue institutional decision-making on questions of environment with the central precepts of the rule of law to 2078 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports achieve the lofty goal of sustainable development. Placing reliance upon the United Nations Environment Programme’s First Global Report on Environmental Rule of Law, this Court articulated the following seven components of the framework of Environmental Rule of Law: i. Fair, clear, and implementable environmental laws; ii. Access to information, public participation, and access to justice through courts, tribunals, commissions, and other bodies; iii. Accountability and integrity of decision-makers and institutions; iv. Clear and coordinated mandates and roles, across and within institutions; v. Accessible, fair, impartial, timely and responsive dispute resolution mechanisms; vi. Recognition of the mutually reinforcing relationship between rights and environmental rule of law; and vii. Specific criteria for the interpretation of environmental law. It further acknowledged how the contemporary environmental challenges such as the climate change crisis could be effectively addressed through a creative synergy of constitutional values of fairness, accountability and transparency with core ideals of environmental protection in the following words: “156. The rule of law requires a regime which has effective, accountable and transparent institutions. Responsive, inclusive, participatory and representative decision making are key ingredients to the rule of law. Public access to information is, in similar terms, fundamental to the preservation of the rule of law. In a domestic context, environmental governance that is founded on the rule of law emerges from the values of our Constitution. The [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2079 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. health of the environment is key to preserving the right to life as a constitutionally recognised value under Article 21 of the Constitution. Proper structures for environmental decision making find expression in the guarantee against arbitrary action and the affirmative duty of fair treatment under Article 14 of the Constitution.” (iii) The in Himachal Pradesh Bus-Stand Management & Development Authority vs. Central Empowered Committee, (2021) 4 SCC 309 (“H.P.