The courts have further to consider the subject-matter, the purpose of the provisions, the object intended to be secured by the statute which is of prime importance, as also the actual words employed.” Although in this case the Court was concerned with a land dispute, the observation in respect of the use of the words ‘may’ and ‘shall’ are general principles of statutory construction and are therefore relevant to the present discussion. 45 [2008] 2 SCR 424 : (2008) 12 SCC 372 360 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 32.5 In Vijay Dhanuka v. Najima Mamtaj,46 this Court interpreted the words ‘may’ and ‘shall’ in the context of CrPC as under: “12. …The use of the expression “shall” prima facie makes the inquiry or the investigation, as the case may be, by the Magistrate mandatory. The word “shall” is ordinarily mandatory but sometimes, taking into account the context or the intention, it can be held to be directory. The use of the word “shall” in all circumstances is not decisive. Bearing in mind the aforesaid principle, when we look to the intention of the legislature, we find that it is aimed to prevent innocent persons from harassment by unscrupulous persons from false complaints. Hence, in our opinion, the use of the expression “shall” and the background and the purpose for which the amendment has been brought, we have no doubt in our mind that inquiry or the investigation, as the case may be, is mandatory before summons are issued against the accused living beyond the territorial jurisdiction of the Magistrate.” 32.6 Crawford’s Statutory Construction (1989 reprint),47 notes as follows in regard to ‘mandatory’ and ‘directory’ words: “Ordinarily the words ‘shall’ and ‘must’ are mandatory, and the work ‘may’ is directory, although they are often used inter-changeably in legislation. This use without regard to their literal meaning generally makes it necessary for the courts to resort to construction in to discover the real intention of the legislature. Nevertheless, it will always be presumed by the court that the legislature intended to use the words in their usual and natural meaning. If such a meaning, however, leads to absurdity, or great inconvenience, or for some other reason is clearly contrary to the obvious intention of the legislature, then words which ordinarily are mandatory in their nature will 46 [2014] 4 SCR 171 : (2014) 14 SCC 638 47 Cited in Union of India v. A.K. Pandey, (2009) 10 SCC 552 [2024] 10 S.C.R. 361 Fuleshwar Gope v. Union of India & Ors. be construed as directory, or vice versa. In other words, if the language of the statute, considered as a whole and with due regard to its nature and object, reveals that the legislature intended the words ‘shall’ and ‘must’ to be directory, they should be given that meaning. Similarly, under the same circumstances, the word ‘may’ should be given a mandatory meaning, and especially where the statute concerns the rights and interests of the public, or where third persons have a claim de jure that a power shall be exercised, or whenever something is directed to be done for the sake of justice or the public good, or is necessary to sustain the statute's constitutionality.