Further, public purpose is vastly wider than the public necessity, even as a mere purpose is more pervasive than an urgency. According to Krishna Iyer, J., “Public purpose” should be liberally construed and neither socialist jurisprudence nor capitalist legal culture can govern the concept of public purpose in India’s mixed economy and expanding public sector, in the context of progressive developmental programmes. 14.7 At paragraph 37 of the majority , it has been categorically stated “since we have upheld the constitutional validity of Act on merits by repelling the attack on it by a 246 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports reasonable and harmonious construction of the Act, we do not consider it necessary to express any opinion with reference to Article 31C read with clauses (b) and (c) of Article 39 of the Constitution. Our learned brother Krishna Iyer, J. has prepared a separate specially dealing with this point. We must not be understood to agree with all that he has said in his in this regard.” Although Krishna Iyer, J. agreed with the majority on upholding the nationalisation of Contract Carriages by the State of Karnataka, he nevertheless made certain observations on behalf of himself, Bhagwati and Jaswant Singh, JJ. only as a separate afterword. In my view, the same cannot be considered to be the ratio of the but an expression of the constitutional philosophy as understood by them during those decades. Bhim Singhji: 15. In Bhim Singhji, the Constitution Bench headed by YV Chandrachud, C.J., dismissed the writ petitions while striking down Section 27(1) of the Urban Land (Ceiling and Regulation) Act, 1976. Writing the majority for himself and on behalf of Bhagwati, J., it was observed by the learned Chief Justice that the Act under challenge was passed with the object of preventing concentration of urban land in the hands of a few persons and with a view to bringing about an equitable distribution of land in urban agglomerations to subserve the common good. “Common good” being the writing on the wall, any disposal which does not serve that purpose would be outside the scope of the Act and therefore lacking in competence in diverse senses. More significantly, it was observed that private property cannot, under our Constitution be acquired or allotted for private purposes though an enabling power like that contained in sub-section (1) of Section 23 of the aforesaid Act may be exercised in cases where the common good dictates the distribution of excess vacant land to an industry, as defined in clause (b) of the Explanation to Section 23 of the aforesaid Act. It was observed that the governing test of disposal of excess land being “social good”, any disposal in any particular case which did not subserve that purpose would be liable to be struck down as being contrary to the scheme and intendment of the Act. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 247 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. 15.1 Krishna Iyer, J. agreeing with the learned Chief Justice and in disagreement with Tulzapurkar and AP Sen, JJ.