Substance of Section 28AB (since deleted) was that where any duty was not levied or paid or short levied etc., the person who was liable to pay the duty would also be liable to pay interest in addition to duty at such rate not below 10% and not exceeding 36% per annum as may be fixed by the central government by notification in the official gazette. 31. Chapter IX of the Customs Act comprising of Sections 57 to 73A deal with warehousing. Section 57 provides for licensing of public warehouses where dutiable goods may be warehoused. As per Section 58, as it stood at the relevant time, the proper officer may license a private warehouse where dutiable goods imported by or on behalf of the licensee or any other imported goods in respect of which facilities for deposit in a public warehouse are not available, may be deposited. Sub-Section(2) provides for cancellation of license so granted by giving a month’s written notice in advance if the licensee had contravened any of the provisions of the Customs Act or committed breach of any of the conditions of the license. However, before such cancellation, the licensee was required to be given a reasonable opportunity of being heard. 32. ‘Warehousing bond’ is provided for in Section 59. As per sub- Section(1), the importer of any goods specified in Section 61(1) which had been entered for warehousing and assessed to duty under Sections 17 or 18 shall execute a bond binding himself in a sum equal to thrice the amount of the duty assessed on such goods. 33. As per Section 60, as it stood at the relevant point of time, when the provisions of Section 59 have been complied with in respect of any goods, the proper officer may make an permitting the deposit of goods in a warehouse. 34. Section 61 mentions the period for which the goods may remain warehoused. Sub-Section (1) says that any warehoused goods may be left in the warehouse in which they are deposited or in any warehouse to which they may be removed- (a) in the case of capital goods intended for use in any hundred percent export-oriented undertaking, till the expiry of five years; [2024] 3 S.C.R. 903 M/s. Bisco Limited v. Commissioner of Customs and Central Excise (aa) in the case of goods other than capital goods intended for use in any hundred percent export-oriented undertaking, till the expiry of three years; and (b) in the case of any other goods, till the expiry of one year; after the date on which the proper officer has made an under Section 60 permitting the deposit of the goods in a warehouse. However, proviso (i) (B) says that in the case of any goods which are not likely to deteriorate and which are not intended for use in any hundred percent export oriented undertaking, the period specified in clauses (a), (aa) or (b) may, on sufficient cause being shown, be extended by the Principal Commissioner or Commissioner of Customs for a period not exceeding six months and by the Principal Chief Commissioner or Chief Commissioner of Customs for further period as he may deem fit.