for the Appellant. Dr. Joseph Aristotle S, Sr. Adv., Ms. Priya Aristotle, Ms. Nikita Patra, Ashish Yadav, Advs. for the Respondents. / of the Supreme Court Abhay S. Oka, J. FACTS 1. The appellant filed a complaint under Section 200 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, alleging the commission of an offence of violating the provisions in Section 29A of the National Housing Bank [2024] 8 S.C.R. 3 National Housing Bank v. Bherudan Dugar Housing Finance Ltd. & Ors. Etc. Act, 1987 (for short, the ‘1987 Act’). The learned Magistrate took cognizance of the complaint for the offence under Section 29A (i) read with Section 50 and punishable under Section 49(2A) of the 1987 Act. Section 49(2A) provides for a minimum sentence of one year, which may extend to five years. For convenience, we will refer to the parties as per their status before the Trial Court. The first accused is a company. The second accused was described in the complaint as the Managing Director of the first accused company, and the other five accused were described as the Directors. By the impugned , the High Court has proceeded to quash the complaint in its entirety. The High Court held that the requirements of sub-Section (1) of Section 50 of the 1987 Act are similar to the requirements incorporated in Section 141 of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881 (for short, ‘the NI Act’), which were not complied with by the complainant. SUBMISSIONS 2. The learned counsel appearing for the appellant has taken us through the averments made in the complaint and the provisions of the said Act of 1987. He submitted that on a plain reading of the complaint, a violation of the provisions in Section 29A (i) of the 1987 Act was made out. Therefore, there was no reason to quash the complaint. Inviting our attention to the complaint, he pointed out that the second accused was described as the Managing Director of the first respondent and, therefore, he was in charge of and was responsible to the first respondent company for the conduct of the company’s business. He submitted that there were sufficient averments for implicating the other accused. 3. The learned counsel appearing for the accused supported the impugned and submitted that averments as required by sub-Section (1) of Section 50 of the 1987 Act have not been incorporated in the complaint. REASONS 4. Section 50 of the 1987 Act reads thus: “50. Offences by Companies.—(1) Where an offence has been committed by a company, every person who, at the time the offence was committed, was in charge of, and was responsible to, the company for the conduct of the business of the company, as well 4 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports as the company, shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly: Provided that nothing contained in this sub-section shall render any such person liable to any punishment provided in this Act, if he proves that the offence was committed without his knowledge or that he had exercised all due diligence to prevent the commission of such offence.