In respect of low voltage overhead powerlines existing presently in the priority and potential habitats of GIB, the same shall be converted into underground powerlines. In respect of high-voltage powerlines in the priority and potential habitats of GIB, more particularly the powerlines referred in the prayer column of I.A. No.85618/2020 and indicated in the operative portion of this shall be converted into underground power line.” 6. This Court appointed a committee for assessing the feasibility of laying high voltage underground power lines. In paragraph 18 of its , this Court directed that in all cases where overhead power lines exist as on date in the priority and potential GIB areas, steps shall be taken to install bird diverters pending consideration of the conversion of overhead power lines into underground power lines. Moreover, the court directed that in all cases, where it is found feasible to convert the overhead lines to underground power lines, this shall be undertaken and completed within a year. 7. The of this Court has been implemented by the Committee by granting case-specific sanctions to projects where undergrounding was found not to be possible. Respondent Nos 1, 3, and 4 (the Ministry of Environment, Forests, and Climate Change, the Ministry of Power, and the Ministry of New and Renewable Energy respectively) filed IA No 149293 of 2021 on 17 November 2021 for modification of the directions issued by the of this Court dated 19 April 2021. The grounds on which modification was sought are indicated below in brief: a. The has vast adverse implications for the power sector in India and energy transition away from fossil fuels; 1330 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports b. Respondent No. 4 was not heard before passing the ; c. India has made International commitments including under the agreement signed in Paris in 2015 under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change5 for transition to non-fossil fuels and for the reduction of emissions. The area in respect of which the directions were issued is much larger than the actual area in which the GIBs dwell. Moreover, that area contains a very large proportion of the solar and wind energy potential of the country; d. Undergrounding high voltage power lines is technically not possible; and e. The coal fired power which would be used to replace the untapped energy from renewable sources in the concerned area would cause pollution. 8. By an dated 19 January 2024, this Court directed as follows: “1 (The) Attorney General for India states that a comprehensive status report will be filed before this Court indicating the way forward as proposed by the Union Government which would take into account both the need for preservation of the Great Indian Bustard which faces a danger of extinction and need to ensure the development of solar power keeping in mind India’s commitments at the international level. 2 The Union of India shall place its status report on the record... 3 In the meantime, we direct (i) the Chief Secretaries of the States of Gujarat and Rajasthan; and (ii) the Committee appointed by this Court, to file updated status reports.