Therefore, as per the choice of the minority community, an institution may have secular education, but such secular education and the resultant institution, must be predominantly meant for the overall betterment of the minority community. iii. Thirdly, the institution must be predominantly administered as a minority institution with the actual functional, executive and policy administration vested with the minority. The minority community should determine the selection, removal criteria, and procedures for hiring teaching, administrative staff, and other personnel. The authority to hire and fire staff must be from the minority community. Further, even if teaching or administrative staff may include non-minority persons, the final authority [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1995 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. exercising functional, directional, and policy control over these authorities must be from the minority community. This ensures that the thoughts, beliefs, and ideas of the minority community regarding administration are implemented. This represents the real decision-making authority of the institution being the minority community. 170. In ascertaining the aforesaid, it would be open for the Court look at the true purpose behind each of the above factors. The apprehensions expressed in A.P. Christian Medical Educational Society [supra], enable the Court to pierce the veil to determine answers to the factors mentioned above. 171. It is reiterated that the factors mentioned above are not a straight- jacket formula rather illustrative for the Court to develop on a case-to- case basis. Additionally, factors such as incorporation under a statute as opposed to establishment under a statute would be relevant. The context may vary between pre-Constitution and post-Constitution institutions. The interpretative exercise must be agnostic to generic claims of a ‘narrow’ or ‘broad’ construction of constitutional terms. The interpretation must be such that it serves the interests of minorities by protecting genuine minority institutions. h. the azeez Basha H.1 The content of the of Azeez Basha [supra] 172. The of the constitution bench of this Court in Azeez Basha [supra] is the cynosure of all eyes in the present case. The parties attacking the of the High Court assert that the approach adopted by the Court in Azeez Basha [supra] to arrive at the finding that the AMU was “neither established nor administered by the Muslim minority” was fraught with errors. Apart from other aspects discussed hereinabove, the was questioned on the ground that it made the rights under Article 30 illusionary as far as Universities are concerned. It was argued that the in Azeez Basha [supra], despite accepting that a minority community has the right to establish a ‘university’ under Article 30(1), held that since a university is necessarily required to be established/ incorporated by or under a statute, Article 30(1) would not apply. It was also argued that if a minority can establish a university under Article 30(1), and if universities are required to be incorporated under 1996 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports a statute for degrees to be recognised, then it must follow that the minority community is entitled to seek incorporation of its institution as a university.