Accordingly, the appeals filed by the appellants stand dismissed affirming the (s) impugned. 192 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports K.V. Viswanathan, J. 1. Important questions in administrative law arise for consideration in these appeals. These are four Civil Appeals. They are filed in all by ten individuals. Together they call in question the dated 15.12.2008 of the Division Bench of the High Court of Judicature at Jabalpur in Writ Appeal Nos. 892 of 2008, 896 of 2008, 879 of 2008 and 878 of 2008. The appointments of the appellants as Shiksha Karmis-Grade III in the Janpad Panchyat, Gaurihar stands set aside by the proceedings before the Courts below. Aggrieved, they are before this Court. Relevant facts: 2. The Madhya Pradesh Panchayat Shiksha Karmis (Recruitment and Conditions of Service) Rules, 1997 (hereinafter referred to as ‘the Recruitment Rules’) were framed in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (2) of Section 53, sub-section (1) of Section 70 read with sub-section (1) of Section 95 of the Madhya Pradesh Panchayat Raj Adhiniyam, 1993. 3. Under Rule 2(h), a “Shiksha Karmi” means the person appointed by Zila Panchayat or Janpad Panchayat, as the case may be, for teaching in the schools under their control. 4. Rule 5 prescribes the Methods of Selection and Recruitment. It provides for two modes of selection, namely, by direct recruitment and by promotion. 5. Under Rule 5(8), the Selection Committee for direct recruitment was statutorily prescribed and was to consist of members as specified in Schedule II and was to be constituted by the Zila Panchayat or the Janpad Panchayat. Under Schedule II for Siksha Karmi Grade III, the Selection Committee was to consist of the following:- 1. Chairperson, Standing Committee of Education of Janpad Panchayat; 2. Chief Executive Officer, Janpad Panchayat; 3. Block Education Officer (Member Secretary); 4. Two specialist in the subject to be nominated by the Standing Committee for Education of whom one shall be woman; and [2024] 4 S.C.R. 193 Krishnadatt Awasthy v. State of Madhya Pradesh & Ors. 5. All members from the Standing Committee of whom atleast one belongs to Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes or OBC, in case there is no SC/ST/OBC member in the Standing Committee then the same shall be nominated from the General Body. 6. Under sub-rule (9) of Rule 5, the Committee was to assess the candidates called for interview and award marks as follows:- a) 60% marks for marks obtained in the qualifying examination as prescribed; b) 25% marks for teaching experience; c) 15% marks for oral test which may include i) communication skills in local dialect ii) knowledge of local environment iii) general knowledge iv) training and teaching aptitude and v) any other test which the Selection Committee may deem fit. 7. Under Rule 12, Appeal against the passed under the recruitment rules may be made as per the provisions of the Adhiniyam. Rule 12 of the rules reads as under:- “12. Appeal.- Appeal against the passed under these rules may be made as per provision of the Adhiniyam.” 8.