147 Bombay Slum Redevelopment Corporation Private Limited v. Samir Narain Bhojwani Respondent shall not sell/ re-sell or in any other manner dispose of or encumber or create any third party rights in any of the 15 flats in Wing A (earmarked for the Respondent) and the parking spaces related thereto; V (r) It is declared that the Letters of Allotment purportedly issued by the Respondent in respect of 31 flats in Wings A and B (earmarked for the Respondent) are sham, bogus, illegal and null and void ab-initio and not binding on the Claimant; (s) It is further declared that the Agreements for Sale of 15 flats in Wing A (earmarked for the Respondent) purportedly executed by the Respondent in favor of the Managing Director and Directors of the Respondent Company and their family members are also sham and null and void ab-initio and not binding on the Claimant; (t) In case, within 4 months from the date of this Award, the Respondent does not pay the Claimant the aforesaid amount of Rs.54.03 crores or does not surrender 3.63 flats in Wing B ( out of those earmarked for the Respondent), the Claimant shall be entitled to sell 0.63 flat in Wing B (Flat No.4 on the pt floor) and 3 flats in Wing B, out of the following 9 flats:- ● 2 Flats purportedly transferred by the Respondent to Mr. Kiran H.Hemani - M.D. of the Respondent, ● 7 flats purportedly transferred by the Respondent to Mr. Priyank K. Hemani - Director of the Respondent; (u) The Respondent and the persons claiming through the Respondent are hereby restrained from selling/ reselling, or in any other manner disposing of or encumbering or parting with possession of or creating any third party rights, in the flats in Wing B purportedly 148 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports transferred to Mr. Kiran H. Hemani and Mr. Priyank K. Hemai till identification and intimation of 3 flats out of those 9 flats in Wing B is conveyed by the Respondent to the Claimant for the purpose of being available for sale by the Claimant for recovery Rs.54.03 crores as directed in (h), (i) & (r) hereinabove and explained in detail para 199 hereinabove; (v) In case the Respondent does not obtain further CC for Wing C within 4 months from the date of this Award, the Claimant shall be entitled to sell the 15 flats in Wing A (earmarked for the Respondent) and adjust the sale proceeds thereof against the loss of profit from Wing C; (w) In case the Respondent obtains further CC for Wing C and also obtains OC for Wing C within the time limits stipulated in this Award, but the Respondent does not pay the Claimant Rs. 50 crores, as directed in (j) above within 4 months from the date of obtaining OC for Wing C, or does not surrender 3.37 flats to the Claimant and the parking spaces related thereto, within the said period, the Claimant shall be entitled to sell off 3.37 flats earmarked for the Respondent in Wing C and the parking spaces related thereto; VI (x) The Respondent shall pay the Claimant costs of this proceeding quantified at Rs.1,50,00,000/- (Rupees One Crore Fifty Lakhs), within 4 months from the date of this Award.