From the above narration of facts it appears that the bills were paid soon after they were prepared. In that case there could not have been any claim for interest. If a claim for interest has been made for running account bill below one crore, under the said terms it is to be treated as a claim for interest for unpaid advance. No right to claim interest arose. Now, unless these facts were established by the appellant and discussed by the learned Arbitrator to show that there was delay in the preparation of the bills by the respondent, that those bills were over one crore and not be treated as advance and that the right to obtain payment thereof arose on their due submission and service of a notice under the Interest Act, 1978, the award of interest could not be justified. Total absence of discussion of these facts signifies that the learned Arbitrator completely failed to exercise its jurisdiction….” 8.5 The conclusion of the High Court, “that it appears that the bills were paid soon after they were prepared” or that, “in that case there could not have been any claim for interest” cannot qualify as grounds for interference under Section 37. Equally, the approach of the High Court in holding that the Arbitrator neither 628 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports established nor discussed the questions posed by it is not a ground to set aside the Award. The reasoning of the Arbitrator is reflected in that portion of the Award extracted hereinabove and we see nothing perverse in it. Nor such conclusion is against our public policy. The scope of Section 37 is enunciated in many decisions of this Court, and we apply the principles laid down therein to the facts of the present case. 8.6 For these reasons, we set aside the of the High Court in relation to claim no. 4 and restore the Award and thereby the of the District Court upholding the Award. 9. Re claim no. 6: This claim relates to Interest 9.1 Arbitrator awarded interest @12% on sum awarded from 12.04.2016, which is the date when appellant claimed breach of contract, to 30.01.2018, which is the date of the Award, and further interest @ 9.25% p.a. from date of Award till actual payment. This was confirmed by the District Judge under Section 34. 9.2 High Court held that the contract between the parties prohibits grant of pre-reference interest and therefore interest could not have been granted for this period. As per the High Court, as the Arbitrator could have granted interest only for pendent lite and post award, the Award was modified directing - pendente lite interest @12% p.a. from 03.08.2016 till date of award i.e. 30.01.2018, along with post award interest @ 9.25% p.a. 9.3 The learned counsel for the appellants has submitted that the award for interest is within the domain of the Arbitrator under Section 31(7) and ought not to be substituted by courts under Section 34 or 37.