The learned Judge has further held that when there is an express designation of the arbitration venue as London and no designation of any alternative place as the seat, combined with a supranational body of rules governing the arbitration and no other significant contrary indicia, the inexorable conclusion is that London is the juridical seat and English law the curial law. xxx 54. We had earlier extracted extensively from the said , as we find, the Court after adverting to various aspects, has categorically held that the High Court had not followed the Shashoua principle. The various decisions referred to in Enercon (India) Ltd., the analysis made and the propositions deduced leads to an indubitable conclusion that 1214 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Shashoua principle has been accepted by Enercon (India) Ltd. It is also to be noted that in Balco, the Constitution Bench has not merely reproduced few paragraphs from Shashoua but has also referred to other decisions on which Shashoua has placed reliance upon. As we notice, there is analysis of earlier s, though it does not specifically state that “propositions laid down in Shashoua are accepted”. On a clear reading, the ratio of the decision in Balco, in the ultimate eventuate, reflects that the Shashoua principle has been accepted and the two-Judge Bench in Enercon (India) Ltd., after succinctly analysing it, has stated that the said principles have been accepted by the Constitution Bench. Therefore, we are unable to accept the submission of Mr Chidambaram that the finding recorded in Enercon (India) Ltd. that Shashoua principle has been accepted in Balco should be declared as per incuriam. xxx 60. Tested on the aforesaid principle, we find that the question that arose in Balco and the discussion that has been made by the larger Bench relating to Shashoua and C v. D are squarely in the context of applicability of Part I or Part II of the Act. It will not be erroneous to say that the Constitution Bench has built the propositional pyramid on the basis or foundation of certain s and Shashoua and C v. D are two of them. It will be inappropriate to say that in Enercon (India) Ltd. the Court has cryptically observed that observations made in Shashoua have been approvingly quoted by the Court in Balco in para 110. We are inclined to think, as we are obliged to, that the Shashoua principle has been accepted in Balco as well as Enercon (India) Ltd. on proper ratiocination and, therefore, the submission advanced on this score by Mr Chidambaram, learned Senior Counsel for the respondent, is repelled. xxx 72. It is worthy to note that the arbitration agreement is not silent as to what law and procedure is to be followed. On [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1215 M/s Arif Azim Co. Ltd. v. M/s Micromax Informatics Fze the contrary, Clause 14.1. lays down that the arbitration proceedings shall be in accordance with the Rules of Conciliation and Arbitration of ICC. In Enercon (India) Ltd., the two-Judge Bench referring to Shashoua case accepted the view of Cooke, J. that the phrase “venue of arbitration shall be in London, UK” was accompanied by the provision in the arbitration clause or arbitration to be conducted in accordance with the Rules of ICC in Paris.