[2024] 10 S.C.R. 2187 : 2024 INSC 836 Om Rathod v. The Director General of Health Services & Ors. (Civil Appeal No. 12110 of 2024) 25 October 2024 [Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud,* CJI, J.B. Pardiwala and Manoj Misra, JJ.] Issue for Consideration Appellant had lower limb myopathy, a locomotor disability. He secured an all India PwD rank of 84 and a State PwD rank of 4 in NEET UG Examination 2024. However, was held ineligible to pursue MBBS course by the designated Medical Board at AIIMS, Nagpur holding that the appellant was 88% disabled which was higher than the maximum permissible disability fixed by the regulation governing admission in the PWD category for MBBS course. By way of the impugned , High Court held that the certification of the degree of disability was in accordance with prescribed procedures. Headnotes† Education/Educational Courses – MBBS course – NEET UG Examination 2024 – Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016 – As per the Guidelines for admission of students with ‘Specified Disabilities’ under the 2016 Act w.r.t admission in MBBS Course, persons having over 80% locomotor disabilities may be admitted to a medical course on a case to case basis after assessing their functional competence to navigate academic and practical requirements – Vide NEET Disability Certificate dtd. 13.08.24, Medical board at AIIMS, Nagpur assessed the appellant’s disability to be 88% and therefore, held the appellant ineligible to pursue MBBS course – Writ petition filed by appellant, dismissed by High Court – Challenged – Supreme Court directed re-assessment of the appellant by Medical Board at AIIMS, Delhi which concurred with the AIIMS Nagpur Medical Board – However, the Board noted lack of clear guidelines to assess disability with assistive devices in terms of the guidelines – Direction for re-assessment of the appellant for a functional competency test – Appellant was assessed to be eligible for pursuing the *Author 2188 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports MBBS course with assistive devices – Permitted to participate in the ongoing counselling – Appellant sought seat at the college allocated in the initial rounds of counselling or at any college in his home State-Maharashtra: Held: Appellant was subjected to protracted and mentally exhausting assessments that failed to apply the correct standards, leading to a declaration of ineligibility – Report dtd. 13.08.24 of the Disability Assessment Board of AIIMS, Nagpur quashed as it did not apply the statutory and regulatory standards applicable to the assessment of a person with disability– Impugned of High Court set aside – A supernumerary seat be created at the AIIMS, Nagpur and allocated to the appellant if he has not already secured a seat at a college of his choosing – College be given the report dtd.20.10.24 which makes suggestions as to the accommodations which may be extended to the appellant – Judgement to apply in rem. [Paras 32, 59] Directions by Supreme Court – Admission to persons with disabilities into medical courses – Formulation of guidelines – Inclusion of persons with disability in the medical profession – Constitution of India – Preamble; Articles 21, 19, 14, 15 – Preambular virtue of fraternity; Right to life, dignity, freedom, equality and non-discrimination: Held: National Medical Council to issue fresh guidelines for admitting persons with disabilities into medical courses – The committee formulating the guidelines must include experts with disability or persons who have worked on disability justice – The guidelines shall comply with the s of this Court and contemporary advancements in disability justice – The Disability Assessment Boards shall eschew from a benchmark model to test the functional competence of medical aspirants with disability – The second respondent shall issue appropriate guidelines in this regard – The Disability Assessment Boards shall include a doctor or health professional with disability as per the directions of the first respondent dated 24 March 2022 – Conduct of the Disability Assessment Boards shall be fair, transparent and in compliance with principles of the rule of law – Attention must be paid to ensure that candidates appearing before the Board do not feel uncomfortable on account of physical or attitudinal barriers – Reasonable accommodation is a gateway right to avail all other fundamental, human and legal rights for persons with disabilities – Non-availability of reasonable accommodation amounts to discrimination and violates substantive equality of persons with disabilities – The inclusion of persons with disability in the medical profession would enhance the quality of [2024] 10 S.C.R.