The power to recall a will not be exercised when the ground for reopening the proceedings or vacating the was available to be pleaded in the original action but was not done or where a proper remedy in some other proceeding such as by way of appeal or revision was available but was not availed. The right to seek vacation of a may be lost by waiver, estoppel or acquiescence.” 48. The law which emerges from the decisions above is that a Tribunal or a Court is invested with such ancillary or incidental powers as may be necessary to discharge its functions effectively for the purpose of doing justice between the parties and, in absence of a statutory prohibition, in an appropriate case, it can recall its in exercise of such ancillary or incidental powers. 39 (2021) 14 SCC 683 40 [1999] 2 SCR 1189 : (1999) 4 SCC 396 284 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 49. In a recent decision (i.e., Union Bank of India vs. Dinakar T. Vekatasubramanian & Ors. ), a five-member Full Bench of NCLAT held that though the power to review is not conferred upon the Tribunal but power to recall its is inherent in the Tribunal and is preserved by Rule 11 of the NCLT Rules, 2016. It was held that power of recall of a can be exercised when any procedural error is committed in delivering the earlier ; for example, necessary party has not been served or necessary party was not before the Tribunal when was delivered adverse to a party. It was observed that there may be other grounds for recall of a one of them being where fraud is played on the Court in obtaining a . This decision of NCLAT was upheld by a two-Judge Bench of this Court vide dated 31.07.2023 in Civil Appeal No.4620 of 2023 (Union Bank of India vs. Financial Creditors of M/s Amtek Auto Ltd. & Ors.). 50. In light of the discussion above, what emerges is, a Court or a Tribunal, in absence of any provision to the contrary, has inherent power to recall an to secure the ends of justice and/or to prevent abuse of the process of the Court. Neither the IBC nor the Regulations framed thereunder, in any way, prohibit, exercise of such inherent power. Rather, Section 60(5)(c) of the IBC, which opens with a non- obstante clause, empowers the NCLT (the Adjudicating Authority) to entertain or dispose of any question of priorities or any question of law or facts, arising out of or in relation to the insolvency resolution or liquidation proceedings of the corporate debtor or corporate person under the IBC. Further, Rule 11 of the NCLT Rules, 2016 preserves the inherent power of the Tribunal. Therefore, even in absence of a specific provision empowering the Tribunal to recall its , the Tribunal has power to recall its . However, such power is to be exercised sparingly, and not as a tool to re-hear the matter.