The rest 13 persons whose cases have not been regularized were attending the same job, which was being attended by 19 persons whose services has been regularized. So standing on the same footing the cases of the rest 13 persons should not have been ignored on the ground that, they did not deserve to be regularized as reflected in the settlement. In my opinion when 19 persons have been regularized the case of rest 13 persons who were attending the same type of work should have been regularized without any cause. The ground stated in the [2024] 3 S.C.R. 631 Mahanadi Coalfields Ltd. v. Brajrajnagar Coal Mines Workers’ Union settlement that they do not deserve, in my opinion does not appears to be a genuine ground to discard the cases of the rest 13 persons. I am not inclined to burden the award by placing all the submissions made on behalf of the parties. It is necessary to refer the evidence of the Witness No. 2 examined on behalf of the 1st Party Management. As per clause 11.5.0 of N.C.W.A. IV the Contract Labourers cannot be engaged for permanent and perennial nature of job. He has further stated that, they had entered to a settlement regarding those 19 persons. His further evidence is that the persons out of 13 were also working in Coal Handling Plant, which is a permanent and perennial in nature. The evidence of the Witness No. 3 of the 1st Party Management is that, the work of railway siding is also a regular and perennial in nature for which the 19 persons have been regularized. All the 32 persons were attending the job of removing spillages for railway Biding below the bunker and also the operation of the chutes in the bunker. So in view of such evidence it cannot be said that the rest 13 persons were not attending the job which were being attended by the 19 persons whose services has been regularized. So in my opinion, even if there has been a settlement between the parties regularizing 19 persons the rest of 13 persons has got cause of action to raise the Industrial separate and their case should not have been ignored. In the other words the action of the 1st Party Management in not regularizing the services of the rest 13 persons in accordance was N.C.W.A. IV is illegal and unjustified. Hence, this Issue is answered accordingly.” 7. Questioning the legality and validity of the Tribunal’s , the appellant filed a Writ Petition (C) numbered 2002/2002 before the Orissa High Court. 8. The Division Bench of the High Court heard the matter, and by its , impugned before us, dismissed the writ petition. The High Court referred to the nature of work performed by the workmen and affirmed the findings of the Tribunal based on the evidence of witnesses such as MW3, the personal manager in the appellant company. The High Court took note of his evidence that the work on railway sidings was regular and perennial in nature.