To fulfil its objective, risk assessment entails, as appropriate, the following steps: (a) An identification of any novel genotypic and phenotypic characteristics associated with the living modified organism that may have adverse effects on biological diversity in the likely potential receiving environment, taking also into account risks to human health; (b) An evaluation of the likelihood of these adverse effects being realized, taking into account the level and kind of exposure of the likely potential receiving environment to the living modified organism; (c) An evaluation of the consequences should these adverse effects be realized; (d) An estimation of the overall risk posed by the living modified organism based on the evaluation of the likelihood and consequences of the identified adverse effects being realized; (e) A recommendation as to whether or not the risks are acceptable or manageable, including, [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1939 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. where necessary, identification of strategies to manage these risks; and (f) Where there is uncertainty regarding the level of risk, it may be addressed by requesting further information on the specific issues of concern or by implementing appropriate risk management strategies and/or monitoring the living modified organism in the receiving environment.” (Emphasis supplied) (h) After perusing the Cartagena Protocol and the Risk Analysis Framework developed by the concerned ministries, it is safe to deduce that Indian regulatory system has a sufficient and robust framework of risk analysis/assessment which can be used by the regulatory authorities to protect the health and ensure safety of the people as well as the environment, in accordance with EPA,1986 ; also to foster the research and development in the field of GE plants. iii. Regulations and Guidelines for Recombinant DNA and Biocontainment, 2017 (a) These guidelines were issued on 1st April 2018 with the following objectives: “i. Outline the general principles of containment and establish a minimum standard for laboratories that must be adopted pan India for all handling of genetically engineered (GE) organisms (organism includes microorganisms, animals, plants, arthropods, aquatic animals, etc.) and non-genetically engineered (non-GE) hazardous microorganisms (microorganism includes parasites, protozoa, algae, fungi, bacteria, virus, prions, etc.). ii. Identify the levels of risk(s) associated with GE organisms and non-GE hazardous microorganisms and classification of those organisms into their respective risk groups to select appropriate containment facilities. It also covers certification of containment facilities. 1940 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports iii. Prescribe criteria for Manufacture, Use, Import, Export, Exchange and Storage of any hazardous microorganisms, GE organisms or cells and products) produce through exploration of such organisms. iv. Ensure that national authorities, institutions and all other stakeholders involved in research & development are well informed or have access to information on safety thereby facilitating the safe use and handling of hazardous microorganisms, GE organisms or cells and product(s) produce through exploration of such organisms. v. Emphasis the need and responsibility of all national authorities, institutions and all other stakeholders involved in research to ensure that the public is well informed about the containment strategies followed in India.” “SCOPE This document covers regulatory scope on rDNA research and handling of hazardous microorganisms and GE organisms or cells in India.