95 of 2021 lodged by the Respondent No. 2 (wife of the Appellant) at the Urban Estate Hisar Police Station, District Hisar. FACTUAL MATRIX 3. The FIR dated 09.04.2021 reads thus: - "1. That the First Informant Tanu Gupta wife of Achin Gupta and daughter of Harish Manocha, is a resident of House No.1368, Urban Estate - 2, Hisar, Tehsil and District Hisar and is a peace loving and law abiding woman and my marriage was solemnized according to Hindu rites and rituals with Accused No.1 on 09.10.2008 at New Delhi. My family had spent about thirty lakhs rupees in my engagement 134 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports ceremony and marriage as per the direction of the accused persons towards furniture, jewellery, clothes and other household articles. At the time of marriage, my family handed over all her jewellery and stridhan to the accused persons saying that it is the stridhan of the first informant and whenever the first informant will need her stridhan, it has to be given back to her whereupon the accused persons assured the family of the first informant that whenever the first informant will need it, they will give it back to her. 2. That after the marriage, the first informant and Accused No.1 lived as husband and wife at B-39, Phase-2, Vikas Nagar, Hastsaal, Uttam Nagar, New Delhi 110059 and the first informant performed all the duties of a wife and out of the said wedlock a boy, namely, Advay aged 8 years was born, who is presently residing with Accused No.1. 3. That after few days of the marriage, when the first informant went to her matrimonial house at that time the Accused persons taunted that your family has lowered down our image in the society and before relatives by giving less dowry and said to the first informant that at least your family should have given a big car in the dowry because Accused No.1 is doing a good job and almost earns Rs. 1,50,000/- monthly and for him, we were getting proposal from rich families who would have spent crores of rupees on the marriage. On this the first informant said that her family had already given 5 lakhs rupees in cash for purchasing the car and have already spent more than their capability and now they cannot fulfil your demand for more dowry whereupon accused persons threatened the first informant saying that if you want to live with us then you have to get our above demand for the dowry fulfilled by your parents otherwise you will not be allowed to live in this house. 4. That whenever the first informant cooked food in the matrimonial home, the accused persons always used [2024] 6 S.C.R. 135 Achin Gupta v. State of Haryana & Anr. to point out unnecessary defects in the food and taunted the first informant that she does not know cooking. To harass and upset the first informant, the accused persons deliberately asked her to make various dishes and when the first informant showed her inability, the accused persons used to abuse and beat her.