46 ibid, 524-566; P. Rathinam v. Union of India (1994) 3 SCC 394, para 93. 47 (1986) 3 SCC 156 48 Brojo Nath Ganguly (supra), paras 89, 92-93. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2303 Central Organisation for Railway Electrification v. M/s ECI SPIC SMO MCML (JV) A Joint Venture Company between businessmen.49 The inapplicability of ‘unconscionability’ to commercial contracts has been reiterated by this Court in the context of arbitration agreements.50 In view of the settled position, I cannot accept the submissions of Mr. Banerji on this issue. 16. Section 28 of the Contract Act and Access to Justice. Access to justice is a constitutional principle. It provides remedies for redressal of grievances arising out of violation of rights and dereliction of duties. The remedies through ordinary civil courts and tribunals comprise credibility, efficiency, objectivity, expeditious disposal, comprehensiveness as well as financial viability. Prohibiting restraint from accessing these remedies is a public policy. 17. Section 28 of the Contract Act secures access to justice by declaring that agreements in restraint of public law remedies are void. Section 28 is extracted hereinbelow for ready reference; “28. Agreements in restraint of legal proceedings, void.— Every agreement,— (a) by which any party thereto is restricted absolutely from enforcing his rights under or in respect of any contract, by the usual legal proceedings in the ordinary tribunals, or which limits the time within which he may thus enforce his rights; or (b) which extinguishes the rights of any party thereto, or discharges any party thereto, from any liability, under or in respect of any contract on the expiry of a specified period so as to restrict any party from enforcing his rights, is void to the extent. Exception 1.—Saving of contract to refer to arbitration dispute that may arise.—This section shall not render illegal a contract, by which two or more persons agree that any dispute which may arise between them in respect of any subject or class of subjects shall be referred to arbitration, and that only the amount awarded in such arbitration shall be recoverable in respect of the dispute so referred. 49 ibid, para 89. 50 S.K. Jain v. State of Haryana (2009) 4 SCC 357, para 8; ICOMM Tele Limited v. Punjab State Water Supply and Sewerage Board (2019) 4 SCC 401, paras 13-14. 2304 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports Exception 2.—Saving of contract to refer questions that have already arisen.—Nor shall this section render illegal any contract in writing, by which two or more persons agree to refer to arbitration any question between them which has already arisen, or affect any provision of any law in force for the time being as to references to arbitration.” Limitations on agreements which restrain access is necessary to secure the constitutional mandate of justice to all by providing access to public law and ordinary civil/criminal remedies from being void. Exceptions 1 and 2 to Section 28 are arbitration agreements and enable substituted dispute resolution, fostering an environment conducive to expeditious and amicable resolution.