13. In our opinion, the High Court while substituting Swami Satyanand (Respondent No.6) as the appellant and dismissing the claim of appellant’s predecessor-in-interest i.e., Swami Triyoganand did not follow the correct procedure. We are not commenting on the merits of the High Court finding on Swami Satyanand being the rightful representative in the case, we are only on the procedure followed by the High Court while doing so. 14. 22 Rule 5 of CPC reads as follows: “Determination of question as to legal representative. — Where a question arises as to whether any person is or is not the legal representative of a deceased plaintiff or 468 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports a deceased defendant, such question shall be determined by the Court: Provided that where such question arises before an Appellate Court, that Court may, before determining the question, direct any subordinate Court to try the question and to return the records together with evidence, if any, recorded at such trial, its findings and reasons therefor, and the Appellate Court may take the same into consideration in determining the question.” This Rule mandates that in case of death of plaintiff or defendant, if a question arises as to whether any person is or is not the legal representative of the deceased party, the court shall first determine such a question. Proviso of this Rule is only an enabling provision where the appellate court may before deciding the question can refer the matter to a subordinate court to try and record its findings which may be considered by the Appellate Court while taking a final call on the issue. 15. In the case at hand, the High Court had earlier fallen into error by substituting both the claimants as legal representatives of the deceased defendant for the purpose of hearing the appeal and thus, the matter was remanded by this Court vide dated 08.02.2018. We are afraid that the High Court has again misread Rule 5 as well as our , as it failed to consider the objections against the Trial Court report while making its determination on substitution. 16. In the dated 30.01.2019, the High Court interprets this Court’s as if a request was made to substitute the one who is found to be the legal representative in the enquiry: “From perusal of the of the Hon’ble Supreme Court, it appears that the Hon’ble Supreme Court has held that the person who is found to be the legal representative of the deceased-appellant in an enquiry held under 22 Rule 5 should be substituted………” The High Court did not discuss the evidence in support of the claim of the Respondent No. 6 nor did it consider the objections of the other party on such claims. Moreover, there was already another substitution application pending before the Court which was not considered. [2024] 5 S.C.R. 469 Swami Vedvyasanand Ji Maharaj (D) Thr LRs v. Shyam Lal Chauhan & Ors. 17. Proviso to Rule 5 does not say that the Appellate Court can direct the subordinate court to decide the question as to who would be the legal representative, it only provides that the Appellate Court can direct the subordinate court to try the question and return the records to the Appellate Court, along with the evidence and the subordinate court has then to send a report in the form of a reasoned opinion based on evidence recorded, upon which the final decision has to be made ultimately by the Appellate Court, after considering all relevant material.