Section 12 provides that the marriage in these instances is non est in law and has no legal standing from its inception. The declaration of the provision is mandatory and removes the option from the hands of the party to consent to the marriage after its commission. Therefore, all marriages done by taking or enticing a child, compelling by force or deceit or selling are void. Section 12(c) further stipulates that where a child marriage occurs and after the marriage, the minor is sold or trafficked or used for immoral purposes is void. Therefore, even when the commission of marriage was not through force or deceit the marriage would be void from the inception based on the acts performed after the marriage takes place. iii. Preventive measures under the PCMA 65. The PCMA seeks to eliminate child marriages by deterrence and prevention. The Act designed the preventive measures in two ways, i.e., (i) by an injunction against the commission of child marriage, and (ii) by the appointment of CMPOs. We shall analyse the scheme of the PCMA in regard to both of these aspects below. 91 Section 12, PCMA. 92 Section 12(a), PCMA. 93 Section 12(b), PCMA. 94 Section 12(c), PCMA. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1559 Society for Enlightenment and Voluntary Action & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. Injunctions against child marriage 66. Sections 13 and 14 of the PCMA deal with injunctions against child marriage. Section 13 reads as follows: “13. Power of court to issue injunction prohibiting child marriages.— (1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Act, if, on an application of the Child Marriage Prohibition Officer or on receipt of information through a complaint or otherwise from any person, a Judicial Magistrate of the first class or a Metropolitan Magistrate is satisfied that a child marriage in contravention of this Act has been arranged or is about to be solemnised, such Magistrate shall issue an injunction against any person including a member of an organisation or an association of persons prohibiting such marriage. (2) A complaint under sub-section (1) may be made by any person having personal knowledge or reason to believe, and a non-governmental organisation having reasonable information, relating to the likelihood of taking place of solemnisation of a child marriage or child marriages. (3) The Court of the Judicial Magistrate of the first class or the Metropolitan Magistrate may also take suo motu cognizance on the basis of any reliable report or information. (4) For the purposes of preventing solemnisation of mass child marriages on certain days such as Akshaya Trutiya, the District Magistrate shall be deemed to be the Child Marriage Prohibition Officer with all powers as are conferred on a Child Marriage Prohibition Officer by or under this Act. (5) The District Magistrate shall also have additional powers to stop or prevent solemnisation of child marriages and for this purpose, he may take all appropriate measures and use the minimum force required. (6) No injunction under sub-section (1) shall be issued against any person or member of any organisation or 1560 [2024] 10 S.C.R.