The Bombay High Court held that each of the components had independent functions and, hence, these cannot be treated and classified together as a single composite unit. 9.19 The Bombay High Court held that all capital goods are not eligible for credit and only those “capital goods” which fall under Rule 2(a)(A)(i) and (ii) relatable to the output services and mentioned in the CENVAT Rules will be available for credit. The goods in question namely, the tower and parts thereof and PFB cannot be considered to be “capital goods” for the purpose of CENVAT credit as they are neither mentioned nor are components, spares or accessories of goods falling under any of the Chapters or Headings of the [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1549 M/s Bharti Airtel Ltd. v. The Commissioner of Central Excise, Pune Central Excise Tariff Schedule as specified in Rule 2(a)(A). In the CKD or SKD condition, the tower and parts thereof would fall under Chapter Heading 7308 of the Central Excise Tariff Act and the said Heading is not specified in sub-clause (i) or sub-clause (ii) of Rule 2(a)(A) of CENVAT Rules so as to be capital goods. 9.20 The Bombay High Court held that admittedly, the goods in question do not fall within the definition of “capital goods”, since towers and parts thereof, once fastened and fixed to the earth, post their erection, become immovable and therefore cannot be classified as goods. Consequently, they cannot be considered capital goods as defined under Rule 2(a)(A). Hence, the Assessee cannot claim the credit of duty paid on these items. The Court further clarified that only items specified as capital goods under Rule 2(a)(A) would be eligible for CENVAT credit. 9.21 The Bombay High Court further held that the goods in question would not be capital goods for the purpose of CENVAT Credit as they are neither components, spares or accessories of goods falling under any of the chapters or headings of the Central Excise Tariff Schedule as specified in sub-clause (i) of the definition of “capital goods”. Thus they are not covered by sub-clause (iii) of Rule 2(a)(A). 9.22 The Bombay High Court repelled the contention of the Assessee that tower is an accessory of antenna and without tower, antenna cannot be installed and as such the antenna cannot function and that the tower should be treated as a part of antenna. The Bombay High Court held that towers are structures fastened to the earth on which antennas are installed and, hence, cannot be considered to be an accessory or part of the antenna. 9.23 The Bombay High Court also held that these items cannot be considered to be “inputs” within the meaning of Rule 2(k) of the CENVAT Rules as the Assessee is a service provider and not a manufacturer of capital goods. 1550 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Further since tower and PFBs are in the nature of immovable, non-marketable and non-excisable goods, these cannot be classified as “inputs” to fall within the definition Rule 2(k) of the CENVAT Rules.