223. Before, we close this matter, we must address ourselves on a very important aspect, as regards the need to effectively address the growing number of dissemination and use of child pornography. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 291 Just Rights for Children Alliance & Anr. v. S. Harish & Ors. i. The Lingering Impact of Child Pornography on the Victimization & Abuse of Children. 224. A child’s victimization begins with the sexual act, continues through its recording, and perpetuates as photographs and videos that float through cyberspace, freely accessible to anyone who has the ability to surf the internet.1 Child sexual exploitation is one of the most heinous crimes imaginable, and the offence of Child Pornography is equally as heinous, if not more, as in the latter the victimization and exploitation of the child does not end with the initial act of abuse.2 The creation or dissemination of such pornographic material further extends and compounds the harm infinitely and at a far larger scale.3 It in essence turns the singular incident of an abuse into a ripple of trauma inducing acts where the rights and dignity of the child is continuously violated each time such material is viewed or shared. This is why it is imperative that we collectively as a society address this issue with the utmost seriousness. 225. The impact of such continuous victimization is profound. Any act of sexual abuse inherently inflicts lasting physical and emotional trauma on the child. However, the dissemination of this act of abuse through pornographic material further accentuates and deepens the trauma into a psychological scar. The knowledge that their abuse is being watched by countless strangers, sometimes years after the actual event, exacerbates the psychological wounds on top of the trauma that was already induced by the act in the first place.4 This perpetuating violation deprives the victim of any remaining hope or chance to heal, recover from the abuse and find closure. 5 226. One must also be mindful of the fact that the term “child pornography” is a misnomer that fails to capture the full extent of the crime. It is important to recognize that each case of what is traditionally termed 1 Eva J. Klain, Heather J Davies, Molly A. Hicks Et. Al., Child Pornography: The Criminal Justice-System Response, 8 (Penn State University Press, 2001). 2 Philip Jenkins, Beyond Tolerance: Child Pornography on the Internet (New York University Press, 2003) 3 Burgess, Ann W. & C.R. Hartman, Child Abuse Aspects of Child Pornography, 7 Psychiatric annals, 248 (1987). 4 Audrey Rogers, The Dignity Harm of Child Pornography – From Producers to Possessors, in Carissa Byrne Hessick (Eds. ), Refining Child Pornography Law – Crime, Language and Social Consequences (University of Michigan Press, 2016). 5 Tali Gal, Child Victims and Restorative Justice – A Needs Rights Model, 17 (Oxford University Press, 2011) 292 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “child pornography” involves the actual abuse of a child. The use of the term “child pornography” can lead to a trivialization of the crime, as pornography is often seen as a consensual act between adults.