Learned counsel urged that the since the Custodian failed to bring the letter of the Income Tax Department on record, either by summoning the income tax officials or by producing any other admissible evidence, the Special Court committed a grave error on placing implicit reliance on such communication. 25. It was contended that the appellants herein being respondent Nos. 8 before the Special Court were not cross-examined either by respondent No. 2-Pallav Sheth or on behalf of the benami companies i.e. respondent Nos. 6, 7 and 8 and thus it could not be said with any degree of certainty that the amounts borrowed remained unpaid. 26. The pertinent assertion of learned counsel for the appellants was that since the appellants were never notified under the Act of 1992, the burden of proof could not have been shifted upon them so as to require them to disprove the case set up by the Custodian in the applications for recovery. In this regard, learned counsel for the appellants referred to the following observations made by the Special Court in the impugned :- “7. It is true that oral evidence cannot be ignored, but at the same time, it has to be borne in mind that the Official Assignee - respondent No.9 has to recover the properties and assets of respondent No.1 for satisfaction of the decree against him. For the reasons best known to respondent No.1 or respondent Nos. 5 and 6, neither they filed any reply nor cross-examined respondent No.8. At the same time, it cannot be forgotten that the respondent No.8 is a 302 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports businessman and he was expected to maintain accounts of his business. It is impossible to believe that he would not have maintained accounts of his business. According to him, he had partly repaid these amounts to respondent Nos. 5 and 6 by cheques and partly the amounts were adjusted against the purchases made by respondent Nos. 5 and 6 from Shree Jalaram Timber Depot Pvt. Ltd. He has shown payment of Rs.25 lakh by cheque to respondent No.5 and that is reflected in his passbook. Whenever any payment is made by cheque and the cheque is encashed, naturally the debit entry is taken in the account of the person, who has issued the cheque. For a moment, if it is believed that other documents were not available, at least respondent No.8 could produce the passbook of his account showing the debit entries indicating payment by cheque to respondent Nos. 5 and 6. However, respondent No.8 did not produce any such passbook to show that certain payments were made by cheque and those cheques were encashed and the amounts were debited in his account. If Shree Jalaram Timber Depot Pvt. Ltd belonging to respondent No.8 had supplied certain material to respondents Nos. 5 and 6 and that amount was adjusted against the dues payable to respondents Nos. 5 and 6, there must have been some documents in the form of bill books, vouchers, receipts, entries in the account books.