18.7. On the issue of limitation, the High Court disagreed with the Trial Court’s finding. The High Court held that the suit was barred by limitation under Article 54 of the Limitation Act, 1963. It found that the cause of action for filing the suit arose immediately after the death of Sushila Devi in 1992, yet the suit was filed only in 1995. Given that no specific time was stipulated in the agreement for the execution of the sale deed, the High Court concluded that the suit was not filed within the prescribed period of three years from the date of Sushila Devi’s death or the time when the right to sue first accrued. Based on these findings, the High Court concluded that the plaintiffs had failed to prove their case for specific performance of the Agreement to Sell, and the sale deeds executed in favour of Defendant Nos. 7 to 10 were not liable to be declared null and void. The High also recorded a finding that the vendor Sushila Devi was entitled to the benefits admissible to a Pardanashin lady and relied upon the s in the case of MST. Kharbuja Kuer vs. Jangbahadur Rai & Ors.1 and Krishna Mohan Kul.2 The High Court, thus, allowed the appeal, set aside the decree passed by the Trial Court, and dismissed the suits filed by the plaintiffs. 1 AIR 1963 SC 1203 (para 6) 2 (2004) 9 SCC 468 [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2393 Shyam Kumar Inani v. Vinod Agrawal & Ors. 19. We have heard Shri P.S. Patwalia and Shri Rahul Sripat, learned senior counsels appearing for the appellants, Shri Sunil Kumar, Shri Sudhanshu Shashikumr Choudhari and Shri Ardhendumauli Kumar Prasad, learned senior advocates appearing for different respondents in different appeals and Shri Shekhar Kumar, advocate for the intervenor. 20. Briefly summarised, the arguments advanced on behalf of the appellants by learned senior counsel are to the following effect: 20.1. The Agreement to Sell dated 30.08.1990 executed by Sushila Devi was duly proved and it was valid and binding on the legal representatives of late Sushila Devi. Our attention has been drawn to the oral evidence as well as documentary evidence led by the plaintiffs in support of the said Agreement to Sell. The same would be dealt with at an appropriate stage. 20.2. It was next submitted that the defence taken by the respondents regarding plea of fraud and misrepresentation with respect to Agreement to Sell dated 30.08.1990, would be required to be established by the defendants as the onus of proof in this regard laid on the defendants. The High Court, in the impugned , erred to shift the burden on the plaintiff-appellants, even though the High Court had specifically recorded that the defendants had failed to lead any evidence in respect of misrepresentation and fraud. 20.3. An objection and argument was raised by the respondents with regard to the plaintiffs not entering the witness box to prove Agreement to Sell dated 30.08.1990, and that the evidence led by their Power of Attorney could not establish such facts.