10. We have taken note of the observation of the High Court made after referring to the manner of commission of the crime concerned that it was not barbaric and brutal. We are of the concerned view that when the words ‘barbaric’ and ‘brutal’ are used simultaneously they are not to take the character of synonym, but to take distinctive meanings. [2024] 1 S.C.R. 117 Bhaggi @ Bhagirath @ Naran v. The State of Madhya Pradesh In view of the manner in which the offence was committed by the petitioner-convict, as observed by the High Court under the above extracted recital, according to us, one can only say that the action of the petitioner-convict is barbaric though he had not acted in a brutal manner. We will take the meanings of the words ‘barbaric’, ‘barbarians’ and ‘brutal’ to know the distinctive meanings of the words ‘barbaric’ and ‘brutal’. As per the New International Webster’s Comprehensive Dictionary of the English Language, Encyclopedia Edition they carry the following meanings: ‘Barbaric’ (adj): 1. of or characteristic of barbarians. 2. Wild; uncivilized; crude ‘Barbarians’ : (n) 1. One whose state of culture is between savagery and civilization; 2. Any rude, brutal or uncultured person. ‘Brutal’ (adj) : Characteristic of or like a brute; cruel; savage. In the light of the evidence on record and rightly noted by the High Court in the above-extracted paragraph 34 of the impugned it may be true to say that the petitioner-convict had committed the offence of rape brutally, but then, certainly his action was barbaric. In the instant case, the petitioner-convict was aged 40 years on the date of occurrence and the victim was then only a girl, aged 7 years. Thus, the position is that he used a lass aged 7 years to satisfy his lust. For that the petitioner-convict took the victim to a temple, unmindful of the holiness of the place disrobed her and himself and then committed the crime. We have no hesitation to hold that the fact he had not done it brutally will not make its commission non-barbaric. 11. In the circumstances obtained in this case there can be no doubt regarding the requirement of deterrent punishment for the conviction under Section 376 AB, IPC. The only question is whether the commutation of capital punishment to sentence of life imprisonment requires further interference. There can be no doubt with respect to the position that on such commutation of sentence for the conviction under Section 376 AB, IPC, the other alternative available is only imprisonment for a period not less than 20 years with fine. This position is clear from the provision under Section 376 AB, IPC which reads thus:- 118 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “376AB. Punishment for rape on woman under twelve years of age.—Whoever, commits rape on a woman under twelve years of age shall be punished with rigorous imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than twenty years, but which may extend to imprisonment for life, which shall mean imprisonment for the remainder of that person’s natural life, and with fine or with death: Provided that such fine shall be just and reasonable to meet the medical expenses and rehabilitation of the victim: Provided further that any fine imposed under this section shall be paid to the victim.” 12.