4. We have heard Mr. Kapil Sibal, Ld. Senior Advocate, for the Plaintiff - State, and Mr. R. Venkataramani, Ld. Attorney General for India and Mr. N. Venkataraman, Ld. Additional Solicitor General of India, on behalf of the Defendant – Union of India at a considerable length, and have perused the Plaint and other documents on record on the issue of maintainability of suit as well as the interim relief sought by the Plaintiff - State. 5. In support of its prayer for the interim injunction, the Plaintiff - State has mainly urged that: (i) under Article 293 of the Constitution, the Union of India does not have the power to regulate all the borrowings of a State and conditions can be imposed only on the loans sought from the Central Government; (ii) the liabilities arising out of the Public Account and State-Owned Enterprises cannot be included in the borrowings of the Plaintiff; (iii) the Plaintiff – State is in dire need of INR 26,226 crores to pay dues arising out of various budgetary obligations including dearness allowance, pension scheme, subsidies, etc. ; (iv) there has been under-utilization of permissible borrowing space from previous years, which the Plaintiff should be allowed to use now; (v) the over- borrowing from the years before F.Y. 2023-24 cannot be adjusted from the Net Borrowing Ceiling of this F.Y. and must instead be repaid at the date of maturity of such borrowing; and (vi) the debt is sustainable because it satisfies the Domar model, such that the GSDP of the Plaintiff – State is rising faster than the effective interest rate. 6. Per contra, the Defendant – Union of India controverted the Plaintiff’s interim claim and has argued that: (i) since management of public finance is a national issue, the Union of India has the power to regulate all the borrowings of the Plaintiff - State to maintain the fiscal health of the country; (ii) the liabilities arising out of Public Account and State-Owned enterprises can be included in the borrowings of the Plaintiff since they may be used to by-pass the borrowing ceiling; (iii) the pending dues have arisen on account of the fiscal mismanagement by the State of Kerala and are not a consequence of regulation of borrowing by the Union of India; (iv) the Plaintiff’s contention regarding under-utilized borrowing space from the previous years is based on erroneous facts; (v) the over-borrowing done in a F.Y. has to be adjusted against the borrowing amount of the next [2024] 4 S.C.R. 19 State of Kerala v. Union of India F.Ys. ; and (vi) the fiscal health of the country will be jeopardized if the Plaintiff – State is allowed to undertake more debt. 7. On a critical analysis of the contentions of both the sides, it seems to us that the instant suit raises more than one substantial questions regarding interpretation of the Constitution, including: (a) What is the true import and interpretation of the following expression contained in Article 131 of the Constitution: “if and in so far as the dispute involves any question (whether of law or fact) on which the existence or extent of a legal right depends”?