10.1 Part IV of the Defence of India Rules, 1962 deals inter alia with restriction of movements and activities of persons. While [2024] 2 S.C.R. 867 Lucknow Nagar Nigam & Others v. Kohli Brothers Colour Lab. Pvt. Ltd. & Others Part XIV-A deals with control of trading with enemy, Part XIV-B deals with control of enemy firms. Section 133-A defines the expression ‘enemy’ inter alia to mean any individual resident in enemy territory. In Part XIV-B, the definition of enemy subject and enemy firm have been given and also the definition of enemy property. Under the said Rules, the Controllers, Deputy Controllers or Inspectors appointed by the Central Government had to carry out the supervision of firms suspected to be enemy firms and do all other ancillary and incidental acts as delineated under the said Rules. 10.2 Similarly, under the Defence of India Act, 1971, Part IV deals with restriction of movement and activities of person. Part XVI deals with control of trading with enemy and the definition of enemy is in Rule 130 of the said Rules and similarly, Controllers or Deputy Controller were appointed for controlling the trading with enemy. Part XVII deals with control of enemy firms to carry out the business of enemy firms, etc. Rule 151 of the 1971 Rules clearly states with a view to preserving enemy property, the Central Government may appoint a Custodian of Enemy Property for India and one or more Deputy Custodians and Assistant Custodians of Enemy Property for such local areas as may be prescribed. The Act under consideration is essentially to provide for the continued vesting of enemy property vested in the Custodian of Enemy Property for India under the Defence of India Rules, 1962, and the Defence of India Rules, 1971 and for matters connected therewith. 10.3 At this stage, we can refer to the relevant provisions of the Act. The expression “Custodian”, “enemy” or “enemy subject” or “enemy firm” and “enemy property” are defined as under: “2. Definitions.- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,- (a) “Custodian” means the Custodian of Enemy Property for India appointed or deemed to have been appointed under section 3 and includes a Deputy Custodian and an Assistant Custodian of Enemy Property appointed or deemed to have been appointed under that section; 868 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (b) “enemy” or “enemy subject” or “enemy firm” means a person or country who or which was an enemy, an enemy subject including his legal heir and successor whether or not a citizen of India or the citizen of a country which is not an enemy or the enemy, enemy subject or his legal heir and successor who has changed his nationality or an enemy firm, including its succeeding firm whether or not partners or members of such succeeding firm are citizen of India or the citizen of a country which is not an enemy or such firm which has changed its nationality, as the case may be, under the Defence of India Act, 1962, and the Defence of India Rules, 1962 or the Defence of India Act, 1971 (42 of 1971) and the Defence of India Rules, 1971, does not include a citizen of India other than those citizens of India, being the legal heir and successor of the “enemy” or “enemy subject” or “enemy firm”; (c) “enemy property” means any property for the time being belonging to or held or managed on behalf of an enemy, an enemy subject or an enemy firm: Provided that where an individual enemy subject dies in the territories to which this Act extends, or dies in the territories to which the Act extends or dies in any territory outside India, any property which immediately before his death, belonged to or was held by him or was managed on his behalf, may, notwithstanding his death, continue to be regarded as enemy property for the purposes of this Act;” 10.4 Section 3 of the Act deals with appointment of Custodian of Enemy Property for India and Deputy Custodian, while Section 4 deals with appointment of Inspectors of Enemy Property.