on the day of the alleged incident. It is mentioned in the FIR that the complainant used to live in a separate house due to the alleged harassment by the appellants and their son. The appellants used to live in a village far from Latur. However, no reason is given in the FIR as to why the appellants and their son had visited her house in Latur on that day. Furthermore, there is not even a whisper in the FIR about the complainant conveying the news of the pregnancy to the appellants or their son. It is unusual that when the allegations under Sections 312 and 313 of IPC are levelled against the appellants, such an important fact surrounding her pregnancy and its knowledge to the appellants is not to be found in the FIR. It is categorically mentioned [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1547 Digambar and Another v. The State of Maharashtra and Another in the FIR that the appellants brought the poisoned food pre-made from their village and hence, it would mean that they would need to have prior knowledge about the pregnancy of the complainant. No such communication or intimation is alleged by the complainant in the FIR that would even remotely lead to the conclusion that the appellants were aware about the pregnancy of the complainant. 28. This Court, in the case of State of Haryana and Others v. Bhajan Lal and Others,6 after considering all the earlier precedents, has laid down principles which the High Court must consider while exercising its jurisdiction under Section 482 Cr.P.C. for quashing of proceedings. It will be relevant to refer to the following observations of the court in Bhajan Lal: “102. In the backdrop of the interpretation of the various relevant provisions of the Code under Chapter XIV and of the principles of law enunciated by this Court in a series of decisions relating to the exercise of the extraordinary power under Article 226 or the inherent powers under Section 482 of the Code which we have extracted and reproduced above, we give the following categories of cases by way of illustration wherein such power could be exercised either to prevent abuse of the process of any court or otherwise to secure the ends of justice, though it may not be possible to lay down any precise, clearly defined and sufficiently channelised and inflexible guidelines or rigid formulae and to give an exhaustive list of myriad kinds of cases wherein such power should be exercised: (1) Where the allegations made in the first information report or the complaint, even if they are taken at their face value and accepted in their entirety do not prima facie constitute any offence or make out a case against the accused. (2) Where the allegations in the first information report and other materials, if any, accompanying 6 1990 INSC 363 : 1992 Supp. 1 SCC 335 1548 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports the FIR do not disclose a cognizable offence, justifying an investigation by police officers under Section 156(1) of the Code except under an of a Magistrate within the purview of Section 155(2) of the Code.