51. The respondents, vide their counter affidavit before this court, have sought to produce some documents to substantiate their claim of other existing insurance policies of the insured-deceased, but the same cannot be permitted to be exhibited at this stage, that too, in an appeal filed by the complainant who is the beneficiary under the policies in question. Any documentary evidence sought to be relied upon by the respondent ought to have been led before the District Forum but the same was not done. It was before the District Forum that the evidence was led and examined and at that stage, the respondent did not take adequate steps to lead any oral or documentary evidence to prove their assertion. Their attempt to annex documents in support of their claim before the State Commission was also declined due to the presentation of unauthenticated documents. Therefore, it can be safely concluded that the respondents have failed to adequately prove the fact that the insured-deceased had 756 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports fraudulently suppressed the information about the existing policies with other insurance companies while entering into the insurance contracts with the respondents herein in the present case. Therefore, the repudiation of the policy was without any basis or justification. 52. Moreover, we have also held on the facts of this case having regard to the nature of queries in Query Nos.6.1 and 6.2, there was no suppression of any material fact as per our earlier discussion based on the contra proferentem rule. 53. In light of the above discussion, the impugned dated 22.07.2019 passed by the NCDRC in Revision Petition No.1268 of 2019 is set aside. The respondent company is directed to make the payment of the insurance claim under both the policies to the appellant, amounting to Rs. 7,50,000/- and Rs. 9,60,000/-, with interest at the rate of 7% per annum from the date of filing the complaint, till the actual realisation. 54. The appeal stands allowed in the aforesaid terms. 55. Parties to bear their respective costs. Headnotes prepared by: Ankit Gyan Result of the case: Appeal allowed.