(ii) Merits or any claim involved in the arbitration.” 71. The decision in Boghara Polyfab (supra) was followed in a number of subsequent decisions of this Court. In Union of India v. Master Construction Co. reported in (2011) 12 SCC 349, this Court held that while deciding an application under Section 11(6) of the Act, 1996, the referral court must satisfy itself that the allegations raised against the full and final discharge voucher were at least prima facie bona fide and genuine. Applying the said reasoning to the facts before it, this Court held that the dispute was not a bona fide one and declined to refer the matter to arbitration. The relevant extracts are reproduced hereinbelow: “18. In our opinion, there is no rule of the absolute kind. In a case where the claimant contends that a discharge voucher or a no-claim certificate as been obtained by fraud and the other side contests the correctness, the Chief Justice must look into this aspect to find out at least, prima facie whether or not the dispute is bona fide and genuine. Where the dispute raised by the claimant with regard to validity of the discharge voucher or no-claim certificate or settlement agreement, prima facie, appears [2024] 7 S.C.R. 875 SBI General Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Krish Spinning to be lacking in credibility, there may not be a necessity to refer the dispute for arbitration at all. xxx xxx xxx 23. The present case in our opinion appears to be a case falling in the category of exception noted in Boghara Polyfab[(2009) 1 SCC 267](p.284, para 25). As to the financial duress or coercion, nothing of this kind is established prima facie. Mere allegation that no-claim certificates have been obtained under financial duress and coercion, without there being anything more to suggest that, does not lead to an arbitrable dispute. The conduct of the contractor clearly shows that “no-claim certificates” were given by it voluntarily, the contractor accepted the amount voluntarily and the contract was discharged voluntarily.” (Emphasis supplied) 72. In New India Assurance (supra), this Court, relying upon Boghara Polyfab (supra) and Master Construction Co. (supra), upon examining the Section 11 petition held that a mere bald assertion of fraud, undue influence or coercion would not warrant referral of disputes to arbitration, if the matter had already been fully and finally settled between the parties. The relevant observations are reproduced hereinbelow: “10. In our considered view, the plea raised by the Respondent is bereft of any details and particulars, and cannot be anything but a bald assertion. Given the fact that there was no protest or demur raised around the time or soon after the letter of subrogation was signed, that the notice dated 31.03.2011 itself was nearly after three weeks and that the financial condition of the Respondent was not so precarious that it was left with no alternative but to accept the terms as suggested, we are of the firm view that the discharge in the present case and signing of letter of subrogation were not because of exercise of any undue influence.