142. Financial contributions to political parties are usually made for two reasons. First, they may constitute an expression of support to the political party and second, the contribution may be based on a guid pro quo. The law as it currently stands permits contributions to political parties by both corporations and individuals. The huge political contributions made by corporations and companies should not be allowed to conceal the reason for financial contributions made by another section of the population: a student, a daily wage worker, 156 See Romesh Thappar v. State of Madras, [1950] 1 SCR 594 (602) [2024] 2 S.C.R. 523 Association for Democratic Reforms & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. an artist, or a teacher. When the law permits political contributions and such contributions could be made as an expression of political support which would indicate the political affiliation of a person, it is the duty of the Constitution to protect them. Not all political contributions are made with the intent of attempting to alter public policy. Contributions are also made to political parties which are not substantially represented in the legislatures. Contributions to such political parties are made purely with the intent of expressing support. At this juncture, the close association of money and politics which has been explained above needs to be recounted. Money is not only essential for electoral outcomes and for influencing policies. It is also necessary for true democratic participation. It is necessary for enhancing the number of political parties and candidates contesting the elections which would in-turn impact the demographics of representatives in the Assembly. It is true that contributions made as guid pro quo transactions are not an expression of political support. However, to not grant the umbrella of informational privacy to political contributions only because a portion of the contributions is made for other reasons would be impermissible. The Constitution does not turn a blind eye merely because of the possibilities of misuse. ll. | Privacy vis-a-vis political party 143. The second issue is whether the right to privacy of political contributions can be extended to include privacy vis-a-vis the political party to which contributions are made since according to the Union of India under the Electoral Bond Scheme, the political party to which the contribution is made would not know the particulars of the contributor. Hence, it is submitted that the scheme is akin to the secret ballot. 144. We are unable to see how the disclosure of information about contributors to the political party to which the contribution is made would infringe political expression. The disclosure of the particulars of the contributions may affect the freedom of individuals to the limited extent that the political party with the information could coerce those who have not contributed to them. However, we have already held above that the scheme only grants de jure and not de facto confidentiality vis-a-vis the political party. Under the current Scheme, it is still open to the political party to coerce persons to contribute.