In fact, the stand of the Insured was that its vendor M/s Flat Products had expressed its inability due to loss of expertise and the same was conveyed two years after receiving the advance. For all these reasons, the learned Senior Counsel prayed that the appeal of NIACL be allowed and the appeals of the Insured be dismissed. Contentions of the Insured/Complainant: - 25. Mr. Joy Basu, learned Senior Counsel appearing for the Insured, at the very outset, contended that the memorandum containing the Reinstatement Value Clause was never part of the policy document issued by the NIACL. This memorandum, according to the learned senior counsel, was never received by the Insured. Without prejudice to the same, it is contended that Clause 9 of the conditions in the policy has to be read in conjunction with the Reinstatement Value Clause. Since, as per para 4, the Reinstatement Value Clause got extinguished, Clause 9 of the conditions became applicable. 26. Learned Senior Counsel submitted that in terms of Clause 9 where reinstatement/repair is not possible, the surveyor’s assessment of reinstatement has to be complied with. Learned senior counsel relied on the in Oswal Plastic Industries (supra). Learned Senior Counsel contended that the interpretation of Clause 9 was laid down only by the Oswal Plastic Industries (supra) in January, 2023 and as such the Insured should be allowed to canvass the argument based on Oswal Plastic Industries (supra). According to learned Senior Counsel, the inability/failure to reinstate as contemplated in the last part of the Clause 9 is the failure of the NIACL. Learned Senior Counsel further contended that it is only with the hope of an expedited settlement that the Insured accepted the lower figure of Rs. 20.95 Crores. Calculating on reinstatement basis, the surveyors in their report of 11.12.2001 arrived at the figure of Rs. 19.55 crores without application of any depreciation. According to the Insured, the amount further due is Rs.11,80,87,699/-. 296 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 27. Alternatively, it is submitted by the learned Senior Counsel that even if the market value basis is to be applied, depreciation has to be calculated on the sum insured of Rs. 80 crores. To support this plea, learned Senior Counsel relied on Dharmendra Goel vs. Oriental Insurance Co. Ltd. (2008) 8 SCC 279. Further, without prejudice, it is contended that if depreciation was not to be calculated on the sum insured, then the depreciation has to be calculated on the cost of the new locally sourced 20 Hi Cold Rolling Machine which would cost Rs. 25 crores plus taxes totaling Rs 28 crores. Further, it is contended that the depreciation rate was 32% as mentioned by the surveyors in their report of 11.12.2001 and NIACL has not adduced any reasons for deviating from the recommendation of the surveyors. Learned Senior Counsel submitted that the surveyor’s response of 07.12.2002 was “a reluctant response from an embarrassed surveyor” to the letter of NIACL dated 12.01.2002 which, according to the learned senior counsel, was a letter by the insurer asking the surveyors to compute maximum depreciation.