595 In Re: Right To Privacy of Adolescents securing the ends of justice being the ultimate guiding factor. No doubt, crimes are acts which have harmful effect on the public and consist in wrongdoing that seriously endangers and threatens the well-being of the society and it is not safe to leave the crime-doer only because he and the victim have settled the dispute amicably or that the victim has been paid compensation, yet certain crimes have been made compoundable in law, with or without the permission of the court. In respect of serious offences like murder, rape, dacoity, etc., or other offences of mental depravity under IPC or offences of moral turpitude under special statutes, like the Prevention of Corruption Act or the offences committed by public servants while working in that capacity, the settlement between the offender and the victim can have no legal sanction at all. However, certain offences which overwhelmingly and predominantly bear civil flavour having arisen out of civil, mercantile, commercial, financial, partnership or such like transactions or the offences arising out of matrimony, particularly relating to dowry, etc. or the family dispute, where the wrong is basically to the victim and the offender and the victim have settled all disputes between them amicably, irrespective of the fact that such offences have not been made compoundable, the High Court may within the framework of its inherent power, quash the criminal proceeding or criminal complaint or FIR if it is satisfied that on the face of such settlement, there is hardly any likelihood of the offender being convicted and by not quashing the criminal proceedings, justice shall be casualty and ends of justice shall be defeated. The above list is illustrative and not exhaustive. Each case will depend on its own facts and no hard-and-fast category can be prescribed.” (emphasis added) 23.1 Therefore, in view of the settled position of law, in the facts of the case, even if the accused and the victim (who has now attained majority) were to come out with a settlement, the High Court could not have quashed the prosecution. 596 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports HELPLESS POSITION OF THE VICTIM 24. The situation in which the victim was placed after the commission of the offence needs a bit of elaboration. As noted earlier, the victim left her house on 20th May 2018, and her mother filed a complaint on 29th May 2018. On 1st June 2018, PW-5 (ASI Gopal Chandra Saha) brought the victim from the house of the accused to the police station. After her medical examination was conducted, she was sent for safe custody at Alor Disha Child Line at Champahati. PW-2, mother of the victim, without giving any particulars stated that she got her daughter back from Narendrapur Sanlaap home. She claimed in the cross-examination that the victim remained in her house for one year and, later on, went back to the house of the accused. She admitted that she never went to the home of the accused, not even to see her grandchild.