The Respondent shall bear its own costs for this proceeding. 205. The claims made by the Claimant for the other reliefs not granted in this Award are hereby rejected. All the Counter Claims made by the Respondent are also rejected. 206. It is clarified that this Award does not deal with any of the 5 flats in Wing A, 3 flats in Wing B and 4 flats in Wing C, earmarked for Aurora Properties & Investments, for which s of injunction were [2024] 7 S.C.R. 149 Bombay Slum Redevelopment Corporation Private Limited v. Samir Narain Bhojwani passed by the Bombay High Court on 3rd and 17th December 2013 in Notice of Motion 147 of 2013, and which injunction s have been restored by the Supreme Court by and dated 2ist August 2018 in Civil Appeal No. 7079 of 2018. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..” 8. While deciding the petition under Section 34 of the Arbitration Act, the learned Single Judge has made an in-depth discussion on the factual aspects and the submissions of the learned counsel representing the parties. Paragraphs 1 to 35 of his deal with the factual aspects and details about the directions issued by the Arbitral Tribunal under the award. Paragraphs 36 to 125, spanning over 45 pages, record the submissions made by the parties, and paragraphs 126 to 194, covering 37 pages, are the reasons recorded by the learned Single Judge. There is a discussion about the oral and documentary evidence adduced by the parties. From paragraphs 140 onwards, the learned Single Judge discussed the issue of jurisdiction of the Arbitral Tribunal to pass the award against the third parties who were not parties to the arbitral proceedings. The learned Single Judge referred to the finding of the Arbitral Tribunal that 31 agreements/ allotment letters for the sale of flats were sham and bogus and were not binding on the respondent. The learned Single Judge found that no persons shown as purchasers under the agreement were parties to the proceedings before the Arbitral Tribunal. The learned Single Judge also noted that these 31 flats were mortgaged in favour of various Banks and Financial Institutions. Therefore, the learned Single Judge held that even the Banks and Financial Institutions would be affected by the finding of the Arbitral Tribunal that 31 flats under the sale agreements were sham, bogus, null, and void. Therefore, the learned Single Judge held that the Arbitral Tribunal had exceeded its jurisdiction. The learned Single Judge also held that the respondent before the Arbitral Tribunal (the appellant herein) was entitled to sell the said 31 flats, and the purchasers thereof were neither parties to the agreement containing the arbitration clause nor claiming under the said agreement. 9. The learned Single Judge also referred to that part of the arbitral award, which provided that there would be a charge over the flats held by the appellant herein.