The pendente lite purchaser would be entitled to or suffer the same legal rights and obligations of his vendor as may be eventually determined by the Court. [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1721 Celir LLP v. Mr. Sumati Prasad Bafna & Ors. 180. Thus, although Section 52 of the Act 1882 does not render a transfer pendente lite void yet the court while exercising contempt jurisdiction may be justified to pass directions either for reversal of the transactions in question by declaring the said transactions to be void or proceed to pass appropriate directions to the concerned authorities to ensure that the contumacious conduct on the part of the contemnor does not continue to enure to the advantage of the contemnor or anyone claiming under him. 181. Since in the present case, the Assignment Agreement dated 28.08.2023 whereby the Secured Asset was transferred in favour of Greenscape/the Subsequent Transferee herein was effected by the Borrower on the strength of its right of redemption pursuant to the High Court’s impugned which was ultimately set-aside by this Court in its and dated 21.09.2023 in the Main Appeals, the same rendered Borrower’s right to transfer the Secured Asset non-est and by extension the Assignment Agreement void. iii. Whether any contempt is said to have been committed by the respondents herein? 182. In to decide whether the appellants are guilty of civil contempt, it would be apposite to refer to Section 2(b) of the Act, 1971, which reads as under: - “2. Definitions.— In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,— xxx xxx xxx (b) “civil contempt” means wilful disobedience to any , decree, direction, , writ or other process of a court or wilful breach of an undertaking given to a court;” 183. The Black’s Law Dictionary, Sixth Edition, at page 1599, defines “willful” as hereunder: - “Proceeding from a conscious motion of the will; voluntary; knowingly; deliberate. Intending the result which actually comes to pass; designed; intentional; purposeful; not accidental or involuntary. Premeditated; malicious; done with evil intent, or with a bad motive or purpose, or with indifference to the natural consequences; unlawful; without legal justification. An act or omission is “willfully” done, if 1722 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports done voluntarily and intentionally and with the specific intent to do something the law forbids, or with the specific intent to fail to do something the law requires to be done; that is to say, with bad purpose either to disobey or to disregard the law. It is a word of many meanings, with its construction often influenced by its context. In civil actions, the word (willfully) often denotes an act which is intentional, or knowing, or voluntary, as distinguished from accidental. But when used in a criminal context it generally means an act done with a bad purpose; without justifiable excuse; stubbornly, obstinately, perversely.” 184. In Ashok Paper Kamgar Union v. Dharam Godha and Ors. reported in (2003) 11 SCC 1, the expression ‘wilful disobedience’ in the context of Section 2(b) of the Act, 1971 was read to mean an act or omission done voluntarily and intentionally with the specific intent to do something, which the law forbids or with the specific intention to fail to do something which the law requires to be done.