It is true that on completion of the work a right to get payment would normally arise but where the final bills as in this case have not been prepared as appears from 98 See paragraph 29 of the in Geo Miller (supra) 99 (1988) 2 SCC 338 [2024] 9 S.C.R. 583 OPG Power Generation Private Limited v. Enexio Power Cooling Solutions India Private Limited & Anr. the record and when the assertion of the claim was made on 28.2.1983 and there was non- payment, the cause of action arose from that date, that is to say, 28.2.1983. It is also true that a party cannot postpone the approval of cause of action by writing reminders or sending reminders but where the bill had not been finally prepared, the claim made by a claimant is the accrual of the cause of action. A dispute arises where there is a claim and a denial and repudiation of the claim. The existence of dispute is essential for appointment of an arbitrator under Section 8 or reference under section 20 of the Act. There should be dispute and there can only be a dispute when a claim is asserted by one party and denied by the other on whatever grounds. Mere failure or inaction to pay does not lead to the inference of the existence of dispute. Dispute entails a positive element and assertion of denying, not merely inaction to accede to a claim or a request. Whether in a particular case a dispute has arisen or not has to be found out from the facts and circumstances of the case.” 102. Interpreting the decision of this Court in Inder Singh Rekhi (supra), in B & TG AG (supra) it was, inter alia, held that three principles of law are discernible from the aforesaid decision: (1) ordinarily, on the completion of the work, the right to receive the payment begins; (2) a dispute arises when there is a claim on one side and its denial/ repudiation by the other; and (3) a person cannot postpone the accrual of cause of action by repeatedly writing letters, or sending reminders. In other words, bilateral discussions for an indefinite period would not save the situation so far as the accrual of cause of action and the right to apply for appointment of arbitrator is concerned. 103. In the case in hand, the award reveals that in respect of payment of Claimant’s invoices, the Purchase s provided that 65% of the Price was to be paid on pro rata basis along with 100% taxes and duties after receipt of material at site, within 25 days of submission of Invoice/ request for payment, and other documents.100 The award recites that there is no indication in the Purchase s as to what 100 Paragraph 13.08 (b) of the Award 584 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports ‘other documents’ were required.101 Not only that, payment, including balance payment, was dependent on issuance of: (i) certificate on completion of punch points signed by parties; (ii) take over certificate of equipment (to be issued by the Purchaser); and (iii) certificate of completion of performance test of equipment (to be issued by the Purchaser).102 But none of these certificates was issued.103 In these circumstances, the Arbitral Tribunal had to consider various facts and circumstances to come to a definite conclusion that the work was completed on 21 September 2015.