This later perspective underscores the broader societal harm caused by such actions and the erosion of trust in the integrity of public institutions. In this light, the statement of the Appellant’s close associate(s) recorded under Section 50 of the PMLA assumes enormous significance, as it constitutes prima facie evidence linking the Appellant to substantial heaps of bribe money recovered from the associate’s residence and company [2024] 12 S.C.R. 635 Partha Chatterjee v. Directorate of Enforcement premises. Additionally, the Appellant’s prayer for bail must also be juxtaposed against the apprehension of threat to life expressed by the said associate in her statement. Having said so, we may clarify that the question of the evidentiary value of the statement recorded under Section 50 of the PMLA has not been addressed at this stage so that no prejudice is caused to parties. 17. We, however, cannot be oblivious to the settled principles that a suspect cannot be held in custody indefinitely and that undertrial incarceration should not amount to punitive detention. The Court would, nevertheless, ensure that affluent or influential accused do not obstruct the ongoing investigation, tamper with evidence, or influence witnesses, namely, actions that undermine the fundamental doctrine of a fair trial. 18. Striking a balance between these considerations and without expressing any opinion on the merits of the allegations, we deem it appropriate to dispose of this appeal with the following directions: a. Since the charge sheet in the ED Case (ECIR No. KLZO- 11/19/2022) has already been filed but charges are yet to be framed, we direct the Trial Court to decide on framing of charges before the commencement of the winter vacations and/or before 31.12.2024, whichever is earlier; b. The Trial Court shall thereafter fix a date within the second and third week of January 2025 for recording the statements of such prosecution witnesses who are the most material or vulnerable. All such witnesses, especially those who have expressed apprehension of danger to their lives (who might be two or three), will be examined on these dates; c. The Appellant and his counsel are directed to extend full cooperation to the Trial Court for the recording of statements of these witnesses; d. The witnesses will be examined without prejudice to the Appellant’s right to challenge the decision on framing of charges if the decision is adverse and if he is so aggrieved. However, upon such challenge, no stay on trial shall be granted; e. In the event the examination of these witnesses is not completed on the dates fixed due to unforeseen circumstances, the Trial Court may do so lastly in the third and fourth week of January, 2025; 636 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports f. The Petitioner shall thereafter be released on bail on 01.02.2025, subject to his furnishing bail bonds to the satisfaction of the Trial Court; g. In the event that the Trial Court is able to complete the directions put forth in (b) and (e) at an earlier date, then the Appellant may be released on bail immediately thereafter and prior to the given date of 01.02.2025; h. Any attempt made by the Appellant to influence or threaten the witnesses, directly or indirectly, shall entail cancellation of the relief of bail; i.