Comprehensive sex education programs also teach youth about the importance of consent and the legal implications of sexual activities, helping them understand the severe consequences of viewing and distributing child pornography. 245. It is of paramount importance that we begin to address misconceptions around sexual health, and promoting a comprehensive understanding of sex education’s benefits is essential for improving sexual health outcomes and reducing the incidence of sexual crimes in India. This is especially crucial given India’s growing population. 246. Section 43 of the POCSO obligates the Central Government and the State Government to undertake measures and ensure that the provisions of the said Act are given wide publicity through media including the television, radio and the print media at regular intervals to make the general public, children as well as their parents and guardians aware of the legislation. It further requires the appropriate government to also impart proper training at tegular intervals to all government offices such as police on the implementation of the provisions of this Act. The relevant provision reads as under: - “43. Public awareness about Act.— The Central Government and every State Government, shall take all measures to ensure that— (a) the provisions of this Act are given wide publicity through media including the television, radio and the print media at regular intervals to make the general public, children as well as their parents and guardians aware of the provisions of this Act; 21 Jagdish Khubchandani, Jeffrey Clark & Raman Kumar, Beyond Controversies: Sexuality Education for Adolescents in India, 3(3) J. Family med. Prim. care. 175 (2014). 298 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (b) the officers of the Central Government and the State Governments and other concerned persons (including the police officers) are imparted periodic training on the matters relating to the implementation of the provisions of the Act.” 247. Section 44 of the POCSO on the other hand obligates the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights and the State Commission for Protection of Child Rights constituted under the Act to regularly monitor and assist in the implementation of the provisions of this Act. The relevant provision reads as under: - “44. Monitoring of implementation of Act.— (1) The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights constituted under section 3, or as the case may be, the State Commission for Protection of Child Rights constituted under section 17, of the Commissions for Protection of Child Rights Act, 2005 (4 of 2006) shall, in addition to the functions assigned to them under that Act, also monitor the implementation of the provisions of this Act in such manner as may be prescribed. (2) The National Commission or, as the case may be, the State Commission, referred to in sub-section (1), shall, while inquiring into any matter relating to any offence under this Act, have the same powers as are vested in it under the Commissions for Protection of Child Rights Act, 2005 (4 of 2006). (3) The National Commission or, as the case may be, the State Commission, referred to in sub-section (1), shall, also include, its activities under this section, in the annual report referred to in section 16 of the Commissions for Protection of Child Rights Act, 2005 (4 of 2006).” 248.