The State is obligated to ensure that its actions remain free from any arbitrariness or capriciousness, particularly when public welfare is at stake. 32. Considering the onus placed upon the State, it requires no further elaboration that every action or decision of the State or its instrumentalities in conferring any form of largesse or benefit must be grounded in a just, transparent, and well-defined policy. Such a policy should be made known to the public through appropriate publication and implemented through non-discriminatory means, free from bias or favouritism.14 Even when the Government awards a contract or 14 City Industrial Development Corporation v. Platinum Entertainment, (2015) 1 SCC 558. 2024 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports grants similar benefits, such bestowal must meet the standards of reasonableness and public interest. Should either of these criteria remain unmet, the conferment would be deemed unconstitutional.15 As a necessary corollary thereto, the Government must not act in a manner benefitting private entities at the expense of the State. Such actions, if unreasonable and contrary to the aegis of public interest, would undermine the State’s Constitutional obligations.16 33. The Concession Agreement for the development of the DND Flyway, entered into between NOIDA, IL&FS and NTBCL, is conspicuously silent regarding the issuance of any tender or inviting bids from other competitors. It may be true that the mere non-floating of tenders or absence of a public auction or invitation alone cannot, serve as sufficient grounds to term the actions of a public authority as arbitrary or mala fide.17 The Courts have rather consistently held that the State and its instrumentalities are free to make financial decisions, provided such decisions are guided by considerations of economic viability and public interest. This, however, does not absolve the State or its instrumentalities from their obligation to demonstrate due application of mind, ensure transparency and fairness in their decision-making process. 34. To instantiate, in the case of City and Industrial Corporation of Maharashtra Limited v. Shishir Realty,18 this Court reiterated the well-established principle that Article 14 of the Constitution, which abhors arbitrariness, imposes a duty on public authorities to ensure that bias or favouritism does not infiltrate the bidding process. A transparent bidding process is essential to fulfil Constitutional obligations. Further, in Meerut Development Authority v. Association of Management Studies,19 the Court noted that while invitations to tender typically fall within the realm of contract law and are subject to limited judicial scrutiny, Courts are justified in reviewing cases where the terms of the invitation appear tailored to favour a particular person or entity, thereby excluding all others from the bidding process. 15 Kasturi Lal Lakshmi Reddy, supra note 12. 16 Ibid; Villianur Iyarkkai Padukappu Maiyam v. Union of India and others, (2009) 7 SCC 561. 17 Pathan Mohammed Suleman Rehmatkhan v. State of Gujarat, 2014 (4) SCC 156; Tata Cellular v. Union of India, (1994) 6 SCC 651. 18 City and Industrial Corporation of Maharashtra Limited v. Shishir Realty, (2022) 16 SCC 527. 19 Meerut Development Authority v. Association of Management Studies, (2009) 6 SCC 171.