14. Smt. Prachiti Deshpande, learned counsel for Respondent No.2- Complainant has supported the contentions raised by the learned counsel for Respondent No.1. 15. At the outset, it is relevant to mention that the son of the appellants, i.e. the former husband of the complainant was also a petitioner in the proceedings before the High Court, which were filed for quashing. He had also filed a separate Special Leave Petition (Crl.) No. 3298 of 2020 against the same which had been tagged with the present appeal. However, the son of the appellants herein expired and therefore his appeal was disposed of as abated vide dated 10th December 2024. 16. In the present case, the allegations raised by the complainant in the FIR will have to be examined to find out whether the allegations, when taken at their face value, would constitute any offence or make out a case against the appellants under Sections 498-A, 312, 313 and 34 of the IPC. 17. Firstly, the allegations under Section 498-A of the IPC must be examined. The said provision reads as under: “498A. Husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty.- Whoever, being the husband or the relative of the husband of a woman, subjects such woman to cruelty shall be punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years and shall also be liable to fine. Explanation.—For the purposes of this section, “cruelty” means— 1540 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports (a) any willful conduct which is of such a nature as is likely to drive the woman to commit suicide or to cause grave injury or danger to life, limb or health (whether mental or physical) of the woman; or (b) harassment of the woman where such harassment is with a view to coercing her or any person related to her to meet any unlawful demand for any property or valuable security or is on account of failure by her or any person related to her to meet such demand.” 18. The ingredients for an offence to be made out under Section 498-A of IPC require that there has to be cruelty inflicted against the victim which either drives her to commit suicide or cause grave injury to herself or lead to such conduct that would cause grave injury or danger to life, limb or health. The second part of this Section refers to harassment with a view to satisfy an unlawful demand for any property or valuable security raised by the husband or his relatives. In the present case, no allegations which would fulfil the requirement of the second part are found. 19. A perusal of the FIR shows that the allegations made by the complainant are that in the year 2015, the appellants inflicted mental and physical cruelty upon her as she could not give birth to a male child. Such allegations made by the complainant appear to be vague as no specific instances of harassment are mentioned. No specific role or allegation is levelled on either of the appellants and no specific incident of physical or mental cruelty has been mentioned.