It is only the petitioner University which is being singled out by the State Government. There is absolutely no reason or justification whereby the petitioner University can be ed to be shut down in such a discriminatory manner. Still further it is respectfully submitted that in the Malwa region of Punjab with population share of 52 per cent there are 22 Universities. In the Doaba region with 19 per cent population there are 7 Universities; but in the Majha region with 29 per cent population there are only 3 Universities one being the Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar, the second being Sri Guru Ramdas University wherein only B.D.S., M.B.B.S., M.D., M.D.S. and Nursing courses are imparted and the third being the petitioner Khalsa University which by virtue of the impugned Act today stands shut down. The action is thus violative of Article 14 of the Constitution of India as well.” 58. It can thus clearly be seen that the Khalsa University has specifically averred that it has been singled out by the State Government amongst 16 Universities. It has also been averred that there is absolutely no reason or justification whereby the Khalsa University could be ed to be shut down in such a discriminatory manner. The Khalsa University has also made specific averments with regard to discrimination inasmuch as there are more number of Universities in Malwa region and Doaba region as against the Majha region. 59. Though a detailed reply has been filed on behalf of respondent No.1 before the High Court, the reply does not deal with the submissions made by the appellants on the ground of discrimination. In any case, no material is placed on record as to what was the compelling and [2024] 10 S.C.R. 483 Khalsa University and Another v. The State of Punjab and Another emergent situation so as to enact a law which could affect the Khalsa University (appellant No.1). No material is placed on record to show that there were any discussions prior to the Impugned Act being passed or as to what material was placed and taken into consideration by the competent legislature. Even going by the law laid down by the majority in the case of Chiranjit Lal Chowdhuri (supra), since the Khalsa University had specifically pleaded a ground regarding discrimination, it was incumbent upon the respondents to have dealt with the said challenge. We therefore find that the Impugned Act singled out the Khalsa University (appellant No.1) amongst 16 private Universities in the State and no reasonable classification has been pointed out to discriminate the Khalsa University (appellant No.1) against the other private Universities. The Impugned Act therefore would be discriminatory and violative of Article 14 of the Constitution. B. Whether the Impugned Act is liable to be struck down on the ground of manifest arbitrariness? 60. The next ground on which the Impugned Act is challenged is that the Impugned Act suffers from manifest arbitrariness. Reliance in this respect is placed on the Constitution Bench of this Court in the case of Shayara Bano (supra).