93. For the above reasons, we hold that the impugned [Harshada Coop. Housing Society Ltd. v. State of Maharashtra, 2018 SCC OnLine Bom 2576 : (2018) 6 Bom CR 154] of the Bombay High Court cannot be sustained; it is set aside. Consequently, the directions in the notification under Section 154 (dated 14-11-2017) are hereby quashed.” 78. A perusal of the aforesaid would clearly reveal that, though the directive issued by the State Government under Section 154 of the MRTP Act was issued in accordance with the directions issued by the NGT, this Court found such exercise not to be permissible in [2024] 1 S.C.R. 1019 The State of Himachal Pradesh and Others v. Yogendera Mohan Sengupta and Another law. This Court held that the complete absence of any reasons as to why the State issued such directions, coupled with the lack of any supporting expert report or input, renders such a directive to be an arbitrary exercise of power. This Court, therefore, disapproved such a directive issued under Section 154 of the MRTP Act merely on the basis of the directions issued by the NGT and set aside the same. E. Development Plan 2041. 79. In any case, we find that the appellants herein, while preparing the draft development plan, have taken into consideration the suggestions given by the NGT. Chapter 12.10 of the development plan elaborately considers the directions given by the NGT. 80. Insofar as “Green Belt” areas, core areas and non-core areas are concerned, the development plan has considered as under: “12.11.4 Implication of Ld. NGT That it is a settled position of law that normally a Tribunal will deal with the controversy brought before it. That is to say, it will adjudicate upon case put up by any aggrieved party before it. Without conceding on the point of limitation, that the Learned Tibunal could have only adjudicated upon the case put up before it. The case put up before it in nutshell was that no construction should be allowed in forests and green belt area. As already submitted green belt areas are those areas in which the land is also owned by the private land owners and is occupied by the structures. As per IDP Provisions, only reconstruction is permitted in the area and that too on old lines. No new construction or increase in constructed area is permissible in these areas. So far as the forest lands are concerned, no construction upon that is permissible unless there is a clearance from the Central Government as per the provisions of Forest Conservation Act. Further, no construction is permissible on the forest land until or unless proposal is cleared by the Competent Authority i.e. Central Government, but while disposing of the case, the Learned Tribunal has entered the field, which does not belong to it. Whether the building should be one storey or three storeys is for the Competent Authority to decide. Town Planning does 1020 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports not come under the purview of the NGT.