(h) Perusal of the relevant clauses of the JVA read in conjunction with the terms and conditions stipulated in the FSA leave no manner of doubt that all that KPCL required KECML to do was to provide it a specified grade of washed coal having a specific GCV to be purchased at a predetermined price for being supplied to BPCL for generation of power. The agreement between the parties did not contemplate that KPCL would be entitled to claim the ‘shales/stones’ that were required to be removed from the coal before supplies were made by KECML. Under the agreements governing the parties KECML was required to dispose off the coal rejects properly, to the satisfaction of environmental regulation, as prescribed in Article 5(2)(b) of the JVA. (i) The MoC did not impose any condition in the Notification dated 16th July, 2004 which required KECML to hand over the coal rejects to KPCL; nor did the MoC issue any Guidelines as to the manner in which the coal rejects were to be disposed of. Once the Mining Plan of 1260 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports September, 2004 submitted by KECML was approved by the MoC, nothing further was required to be done by KECML except for following the conditions imposed on it. (j) The Central Government had not come up with any specific plan to dispose off the coal rejects, as is apparent from a perusal of the reply submitted by the Minister of State, MoC in the Lok Sabha, stating that the Government had not framed any National Policy for exploitation of coal rejects and the same was still under consideration. In the absence of a policy to dispose off the coal rejects, the appellants cannot be blamed for complying with the terms and conditions stipulated in the JVA. (k) KECML could not be faulted for failing to set up the coal washery at the pithead, in terms of the JVA as that was for reasons beyond its control which included a prolonged litigation between the MoC and CIPCO in relation to the very same coal blocks allocated to KPCL which in turn delayed the project considerably. Production of coal could only commence in September, 2008 when the curtains were drawn on the aforesaid litigation. The Board of KPCL consciously acceded to the proposal made by KECML that a MoU be executed with GCWL for washing of mined coal at its washery. Pertinently, GCWL was not an unknown entity to KPCL as the latter had prior dealings with the said Company for washing of mined coal in another project. This decision taken by the parties in their commercial wisdom has been sought to be selectively tainted with criminal intention attributed to the appellants, without any basis. (l) There was no getting around the process of washing of raw coal which was the predominant prerequisite to meet the specified grade of coal with the defined GCV for generation of power at BTPS. Failure to supply washed coal to KPCL not only invited heavy penalties on KECML in terms of the JVA, it would have had serious consequences of stoppage of generation of power at BTPS, resulting in power outages in the State of Karnataka.