The appellant further informed that his neighbourer-Madhusudhan Kulkarni (PW-12) had also been injured. This information was transmitted to Bajirao Dadoba Mohite ACP CID (PW-14), who was on duty at Wanawadi Police Station, Pune, who lodged a complaint. 2.2 Based on the complaint of the appellant, a First Information Report No.196 of 2012 was registered for commission of an offence punishable under Sections 302 and 397 of the IPC against unknown persons. It was stated by the appellant in the complaint that one gold chain of 8 Tolas, one gold Mangalsutra, cash amount of Rs.7,000/-, 3 small rings and 2 almond shaped pendants having total value of Rs.3,07,000/- were stolen. The three dead bodies were sent to the hospital for post-mortem and the neighbourer Madhusudan Kulkarni (PW-12) was also sent to the hospital for medical treatment. The panchnama of the place of the incident was recorded after Bajirao Dadoba Mohite ACP CID (PW-14) had visited the place of occurrence. 2.3 While recording the spot panchnama, it was observed by Bajirao Dadoba Mohite (PW-14) that there were no signs of forced entry on both the doors as well as the safety doors of the flat of the appellant. A gold Mangalsutra, 3 small gold 2 Hereinafter referred to as “IPC”. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 757 Vishwajeet Kerba Masalkar v. State of Maharashtra rings, 2 gold almond shaped pendants and cash amount of Rs. 7,000/- in one red coloured money purse hidden behind a photo frame hanging on the wall of the flat were also found by Bajirao Dadoba Mohite (PW-14). Another ash-coloured money purse was found in the flat as well. At the place of the incident, near the main door of the flat of the appellant, few pieces of bangles that were stained with blood and one blood stained odhani were also found. 2.4 During investigation, it was revealed that appellant had a love affair with one Gauri Londhe (PW-2). It was stated by the appellant’s paramour Gauri Londhe (PW-2) that, when she came to know about the appellant’s marriage, she refused to marry him but the appellant was ready to leave his wife and daughter in to marry her. It was also seen through the CCTV footage of the Saipras Society, which was adjoining the flat of the appellant, that at 03:22 PM, appellant’s mother (Shobha Masalkar) was seen going towards the flat and at 04:28 PM, the appellant was seen going out on his motorcycle. Based on these facts, the appellant was suspected to have committed the murders by the police and so he was arrested on 5th October 2012. 2.5 Post-Mortem of the three deceased persons was conducted. In the post-mortem, it was opined that the cause of death of the appellant’s daughter (Kimaya Masalkar) was asphyxia due to smothering, the cause of death of the appellant’s wife (Archana Masalkar) was traumatic and hemorrhagic shock due to head injury and the cause of death of the appellant’s mother (Shobha Masalkar) was hemorrhagic shock due to head injury. 2.6 The appellant made a disclosure about keeping his blood-stained clothes and Mangalsutra of his wife at a place in M.I.D.C., Hadapsar Area, Pune and he further disclosed about throwing the hammer, used for committing the crime, in a canal after keeping it in a blue bag.