2 Tmt. T .Subbulakshmi vs The Commissioner of Police 2013(4) MLJ (Crl) 41 3 The Meridian Educational Society Vs. The State of Telangana, 2022 1 ALT(Cri) 229 414 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports and breach of complying with follow-up procedures would render the exercise of the main power to be without authority and jurisdiction – in that sense, the requirement to report is in the nature of a condition subsequent clause.4 5. The latter view has been sustained on the reasoning that: a) The statutory provision provides no express consequence(s) for non-compliance and therefore, the procedural requirement is merely directory and not mandatory5; b) The power to seize property connected with a crime is plenary and the obligation to intimate is a mere incidental exercise of power – breach of the latter cannot affect the former6; c) the object of reporting is to facilitate disposal of property seized – prejudice caused by delayed reporting, if any, can always be demonstrated at the trial7; d) Neither is there any obligation to seek prior leave before exercising the power to seize nor is there any statutorily provided consequence for non-compliance of the reporting obligation8; e) No prejudice would be caused to the owner of a property by non-reporting of seizure to the concerned Magistrate during the investigation phase. Therefore, it cannot be a case of illegality but such an omission may only be an irregularity.9 4 Dr Shashikant D. Karnik Vs. State of Maharashtra, 2008 CRL.L.J. 148 5 Ruqaya Akhter Vs Ut Through Crime Branch, CRM(M) No.223/2022, Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh High Court. 6 Operation Mobilization India Vs. State of Telangana 2021 SCC OnLine TS 1529 7 Bharath Overseas Bank Vs. Minu Publication [1988] MLJ (Crl.) 309 8 Supra, 7 9 Supra, 5 [2024] 6 S.C.R. 415 Shento Varghese v. Julfikar Husen & Ors. 6. In light of conflicting precedents operating across various High Courts, we find it expedient and necessary to settle the conflict and bring in uniformity in adjudication. LEGISLATIVE HISTORY – A COMPARATIVE ANALYSIS Criminal Relevant Provision Procedure Codes 188210 Section 523- Procedure by police upon seizure of property taken under Section 51 or stolen The seizure by any Police-officer of property taken under Section 51, or alleged or suspected to have been stolen, or found under circumstances which create suspicion of the commission of any offence, shall be forthwith reported to a magistrate, who shall make such as he thinks fit respecting the delivery of such property to the person entitled to the possession thereof, or, if such person cannot be ascertained, respecting the custody and production of such property. 189811 Section 550- Powers to police to seize property suspected to be stolen: Any police-office may seize any property which may be alleged or suspected to have been stolen, or which may be found under circumstances which create suspicion of the commission of any offence. Such police- officer, if subordinate to the office in charge of a police station, shall forthwith report the seizure to that officer.