309 The Excise Commissioner Karnataka & Anr. v. Mysore Sales International Ltd. & Ors. amount from the said buyer, be it in cash or by way of cheque or by way of draft etc. In so far alcoholic liquor for human consumption (other than India made foreign liquor i.e., IMFL), the amount to be collected is 10 percent. Sub-section (3) provides that any person collecting such amount under sub-section (1) shall pay the said amount within 7 days of the collection to the credit of the central government or as the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) directs. Sub-section (4) clarifies that any amount so collected under Section 206C(1) and paid under sub-section (3) shall be deemed as payment of income tax on behalf of the person from whom the amount has been collected and credit shall be given to such person for the amount so collected and paid at the time of assessment proceeding for the relevant assessment year. Sub-section (5) says that every person collecting such tax shall issue a certificate to the buyer within 10 days of debit or receipt of the amount. Sub-section (5A) requires the person collecting tax to prepare half yearly returns for the periods ending on 30th September and 31st March for each financial year and submit the same in the prescribed form before the competent income tax authority. 14.2. Sub-section (6) is relevant. Sub-section (6) says that any person responsible for collecting the tax but fails to collect the same shall notwithstanding such failure be liable to pay the tax which he ought to have collected to the credit of the central government in accordance with the provisions of sub-section (3). Sub-section (7) deals with a situation where such tax is not collected in which event the seller is liable to pay interest at the prescribed rate. Sub-section (8) on the other hand deals with a situation where the seller does not deposit the amount even after collecting the tax. In such an event also, he would be liable to pay interest. 14.3. That brings us to the Explanation to Section 206C of the Income Tax Act. The Explanation defines “buyer” and “seller” for the purposes of Section 206C. While Explanation(a) defines “buyer”, (b) defines “seller”. As per Explanation(a), “buyer” means a person who obtains in any sale by way of auction, tender or by any other mode, goods of the nature specified in the table in sub-section (1) or the right to receive any such goods but “buyer” would not include: 310 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (i) a public sector company; (ii) a buyer in the further sale of such goods obtained in pursuance of such sale; (iii) a buyer where the goods are not obtained by him by way of auction and where the sale price of such goods to be sold by the buyer is fixed by or under any State Act. 14.4. On the other hand, “seller” has been defined to mean the central government, a state government or any local authority or corporation or authority established by or under a central, state or provincial act or any company or firm or cooperative society.