178. We will now address the cases relied on by the Attorney General to advance his argument. In Pashupati Nath Sukul (supra), a bench of three judges of this Court held that a member of the legislative assembly may propose a candidature for a seat in and vote at an election to the Rajya Sabha even before taking the constitutional oath required under Article 188 of the Constitution. The Court observed that an election to fill seats in the Rajya Sabha does not form a part of the legislative proceedings of the House nor do they constitute a vote given in the House on any issue arising before it. Therefore, it is not hit by Article 193 of the Constitution which states that a member of the Legislative Assembly cannot sit and vote in the House before subscribing to the oath. Interestingly, the Court also noted that in the intervening period between the name of the elected member appearing in the notification and the member taking the constitutional oath, she is entitled to all the privileges, salaries, and allowances 89 The electoral college consists of elected MPs and MLAs. 90 The electoral college consists of elected MPs. 576 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of a member of the Legislative Assembly. It is clear that the Court recognized that members of the legislative assembly are entitled to privileges even when they cannot participate or are not participating in ‘law-making’. One of these privileges is the parliamentary privilege bestowed on members of the legislative assembly under Article 194. The Court held as follows: “18. […] The rule contained in Article 193 of the Constitution, as stated earlier, is that a member elected to a Legislative Assembly cannot sit and vote in the House before making oath or affirmation. The words “sitting and voting” in Article 193 of the Constitution imply the summoning of the House under Article 174 of the Constitution by the Governor to meet at such time and place as he thinks fit and the holding of the meeting of the House pursuant to the said summons or an adjourned meeting. An elected member incurs the penalty for contravening Article 193 of the Constitution only when he sits and votes at such a meeting of the House. Invariably there is an interval of time between the constitution of a House after a general election as provided by Section 73 of the Act and the summoning of the first meeting of the House. During that interval an elected member of the Assembly whose name appears in the notification issued under Section 73 of the Act is entitled to all the privileges, salaries and allowances of a member of the Legislative Assembly, one of them being the right to function as an elector at an election held for filling a seat in the Rajya Sabha. That is the effect of Section 73 of the Act which says that on the publication of the notification under it the House shall be deemed to have been constituted.