This Court in Ebix Singapore Private Limited v. Committee Of Creditors of Educomp Solutions Limited and Another reported in (2022) 2 SCC 401 was faced with the issue whether withdrawals or modifications by successful resolution applicants were permissible under the IBC, 2016 i.e., whether a resolution applicant is entitled to withdraw or modify its Resolution Plan, once it has been submitted by the Resolution Professional to the Adjudicating Authority and before it is approved by such authority under Section 31(1) of the IBC, 2016. It was unequivocally held that, based on the plain terms of the IBC, 2016, the Adjudicating Authority lacks the power to allow the withdrawal or modification of the Resolution Plan by a successful resolution applicant or to give effect to any such clauses in the Resolution Plan. The relevant observations made are reproduced hereinbelow: “164. The approval of the adjudicating authority under Section 31(1) IBC has the effect of making the resolution plan binding on all stakeholders. These stakeholders include the employees of the corporate debtor whose terms of employment would be governed by the resolution plan, the Central and State Governments who would receive 2130 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports their tax dues on the basis of the terms of the resolution plan and local authorities to whom dues are owed. These stakeholders are not direct participants in the CIRP but are bound by its consequence by virtue of the approval of the resolution plan, under Section 31(1) IBC. Section 31(1) ensures that the resolution plan becomes binding on all stakeholders after it is approved by the adjudicating authority. The language of Section 31(1) cannot be construed to mean that a resolution plan is indeterminate or open to withdrawal or modification until it is approved by the adjudicating authority or that it is not binding between the CoC and the successful resolution applicant. Regulation 39(4) of the CIRP Regulations mandates that the RP should endeavor to submit the plan at least fifteen days before the statutory period of the CIRP under Section 12 is due to expire along with a receipt of a PBG and a compliance certificate as Form H. It is pertinent to note that sub-section (3) to Section 12 mandates that the CIRP process, including legal proceedings, must be concluded within 330 days. This three-hundred-and-thirty-day period can be extended only in exceptional circumstances, if the process is at near conclusion and serves the object of IBC, as held by a three-Judge Bench of this Court in Essar Steel [Essar Steel (India) Ltd. (CoC) v. Satish Kumar Gupta, (2020) 8 SCC 531 : (2021) 2 SCC (Civ) 443]. Therefore, after accounting for all statutorily envisaged delays which the RP has to explain in its Form H and otherwise through Regulation 40-B, the procedure envisages a fifteen-day window between submission of resolution plan and its approval or rejection by the adjudicating authority. This clearly indicates that the statute envisages a certain level of finality before the resolution plan is submitted for approval to the adjudicating authority.