137. The test or criteria of ‘subjective satisfaction’ is in view of the practical difficulty that exists in conclusively establishing the age of an individual in any pornographic material through any objective means or criteria. This is owed to the fact that often, it is next to impossible to establish the identity of the victim, then to trace the whereabouts of such person, and then objectively determine their age. If such a criterion is adopted, then most of the cases pertaining to the possession of any child pornographic material would fail at the threshold, due to want of any means or information for conclusively proving the age of the victim. 138. The aforesaid aspect may be looked at from one another angle. Any mandate of an objective determination of the age by conclusive means, could possibly result in absurd consequences. For instance, say a pornographic material involves an under-teen child who by virtue of his built on the face of it appears to be a child, yet such material will not be considered child pornographic material in the eyes of law, unless an objective determination of the exact age of such [2024] 10 S.C.R. 237 Just Rights for Children Alliance & Anr. v. S. Harish & Ors. child is carried out in a conclusive manner. In the absence of any such determination, the prosecution of possession of such material would have to fail, merely due to technicalities and the inflexible character of the criteria or test for determining the age. 139. The aforesaid provision of Section 2(1)(da) of the POCSO holds significant importance, as the legislature whilst giving teeth to the existing provision of Section 15 of the Act, and making three distinct offences punishable under it through the 2019 Amendment Act, also consciously defined the term ‘child pornography’ under the POCSO through the very same amendment. It indicates the legislature’s intention of construing both these provisions together as a whole; neither Section 15 of the POCSO nor Section 2(1)(da) can be interpreted or invoked in isolation from the other. 140. The legislature through Section 2(1)(da) of the POCSO, made a conscious departure from the already existing objective criterion of determination of age in terms of Section 2(1)(d) which is generally applicable to the POCSO, as it was alive to aforementioned inherent difficulty that is posed by such criteria. The legislature was well aware, that if the proof of age in offences pertaining to child pornography such as under Section 15 of the POCSO would also have to be assessed by the existing objective test, it would lead to a very chilling effect, whereby the entire Section 15 of the POCSO could be rendered unworkable merely on account of a hyper-technical approach as to determination of age, thereby defeating the very object of the POCSO. 141. The aforesaid aspect may also be looked at from one more angle. Section 2(1)(da) of the POCSO was inserted by the legislature with two-fold purpose in mind. While one of the purpose of Section 2(1) (da) of the POCSO, was to explicitly define and delineate what type of visual depictions would be considered ‘child pornography’ to remove any ambiguity that existed earlier, the real purpose behind insertion of the said provision was to mitigate the tendency of the courts to refer and apply the objective criteria of age determination prescribed under Section 2(1)(d) of the POCSO, even when dealing with matters involving child pornography.