11. On receipt of the additional chargesheet, the trial Court is directed to frame charges afresh and to proceed with the trial and to dispose of the case as expeditiously as possible.” 23. The present Special Leave Petition has been filed on 14.03.2022. By an of 16.08.2022, this Court, while issuing notice, stayed the operation of the impugned . It appears that before the filing of the Special Leave Petition, the additional charge-sheet also came to be prepared on 02.12.2021. 24. We have heard Mr. Jayanth Muth Raj, learned senior advocate, for the appellant as well as Shri Amit Anand Tiwari, learned Additional Advocate General, for the State as well as Shri S. Nagamuthu, learned senior advocate, for the respondent No. 1 (wife of the deceased). 25. The learned senior counsel for the appellant contends that the present application filed by respondent no. 1 is a disguised attempt to reopen the earlier proceedings under Section 311 which attained finality; that after framing of charges, respondent no. 1, who is not a complainant, cannot file an application for further investigation under Section 173(8) of Cr.P.C. ; that the trial court had no jurisdiction to entertain the application under Section 173(8) of Cr.P.C. after framing of charges; that no grounds have been made out for further investigation and that the High Court ought not to have interfered with the of trial court in the exercise of its revisional jurisdiction. Learned senior counsel relied on several s of this Court to support the contentions. 10 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 26. The learned Additional Advocate General for the State and the learned senior counsel for the respondent no. 1 strongly defended the impugned . They contended that the interest of justice is paramount and it will even trump the need to avoid any delay being caused in the proceedings; that the investigating agency has carried out further investigation in compliance with the impugned and prepared the additional charge-sheet on 02.12.2021 bringing out certain new facts and material; that no prejudice is caused to the defence as the material will be furnished to the accused persons and they will have ample opportunity to put forth their defence. To support their stand, learned senior counsel referred to several precedents. 27. We have carefully considered the submissions of the learned counsels for the parties, perused the records as well as written submissions filed by them. 28. The legal position on the aspect of further investigation is fairly well settled. Under the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, pursuant to the recommendation of the Law Commission, in its 41st Report, Section 173(8) has been expressly engrafted setting at rest any controversy that may have obtained earlier. Section 173(8) reads as under: “173(8) Nothing in this section shall be deemed to preclude further investigation in respect of an offence after a report under sub-section (2) has been forwarded to the Magistrate and, where upon such investigation, the officer-in-charge of the police station obtains further evidence, oral or documentary, he shall forward to the Magistrate a further report or reports regarding such evidence in the form prescribed; and the provisions of sub-sections (2) to (6) shall, as far as may be, apply in relation to such report or reports as they apply in relation to a report forwarded under sub-section (2).” 29.