It is our duty as Judges to stand tall and rise to the challenge. 20. While concluding, we are reminded of the universal truth “to err is human, to forgive is divine” emphasizing the human tendency of committing mistakes and the importance of forgiving a human error. 21. Conscious that we are of learned Judges of the high courts working overtime to render justice to the litigants by conducting judicial proceedings, at times, by sitting in excess of normal working hours, discharging administrative duties in addition to judicial work, etc, and in the process overlooking health issues and sacrificing all pleasures of social life, we need to look at the issue wearing glasses of grace and compassion. As has been held by this Court in Tirupati Balaji Developers (P) Ltd. vs State of Bihar,7 in the unified hierarchical judicial structure that we have under the Constitution, vertically the Supreme Court is placed over the high courts; but if the Supreme Court and the high courts were thought of as brothers, we as Judges of the apex court in the country remain as the elder brother only to the extent of exercise of appellate jurisdiction. Promoting empathy and understanding by encouraging forgiveness, which is a divine quality transcending human limitation, should be preferred to anything else in the given circumstances, particularly when the learned Judge has not been put on notice and is unable to place His Lordship’s version. This approach is considered to be a better option rather than remarking adversely or giving unsolicited advice. 22. We, thus, allow the controversy to rest here. 23. It is now time for us to give our decision. Notwithstanding that the appellant has not been entirely clean in his approach but having regard to the famous words of Lord Hewart, the Lord Chief Justice of England in R. vs Sussex JJ., ex p McCarthy8 that “justice must not only be done, but must also be seen to be done”, meaning thereby that the outcome of proceedings should be visibly just, the 7 (2004) 5 SCC 1 8 (1924) 1 KB 256 [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2239 Ratilal Jhaverbhai Parmar and Ors. v. State of Gujarat and Ors. impugned bearing the date 1st March, 2023 has to be set aside which we do hereby . This would result in revival of the petition of the appellant and it shall stand restored on the file of the High Court. The Hon’ble the Chief Justice of the High Court is requested to place the petition before the learned Judge currently having the assignment to hear the same. 24. Needless to observe, the petition shall be considered and decided by the High Court uninfluenced by any observation made in the bearing the date 1st March, 2023. 25. The appeal stands allowed on the aforesaid terms. 26. We make it clear that we have not examined the rival claims on merits. Result of the case: Appeal allowed. †Headnotes prepared by: Niti Richariya, Hony. Associate Editor (Verified by: Liz Mathew, Sr.