Tendering a qualified apology is akin to a game of dice. It could either have a positive outcome or a negative result. If the contemnor tenders a conditional apology and expects luck to play a role in the outcome of such an apology, then he should be ready to face the consequence of an outright rejection. 44. In M.Y. Shareef and Another v. Hon’ble Judges of the High Court of Nagpur and Others,25 a Constitution Bench of this Court had observed in para 12 that: “12. The proposition is well settled and self-evident that there cannot be both justification and an apology. The two things are incompatible. Again, an apology is not a weapon of defence to purge the guilty of their offence; nor is it intended to operate as a universal panacea, but it is intended to be evidence of real contriteness. The appellants having tendered an unqualified apology, no exception can be taken to the decision of the High Court that the application for transfer did constitute contempt because the Judges were scandalised with a view to diverting the due course of justice, and that in signing this application the two advocates were guilty of contempt. That decision therefore stands.” (emphasis added) 45. In Priya Gupta and Another v. Additional Secretary, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and Others,26 this Cout expounded on the expression “bona fide” and held as below: “7. Tendering an apology is not a satisfactory way of resolving contempt proceedings. An apology tendered at the very initial stage of the proceedings being bona fide and preferably unconditional would normally 25 [1955] 1 SCR 757 : (1954) 2 SCC 444 26 [2012] 12 SCR 818 : (2013) 11 SCC 404 440 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports persuade the court to accept such apology, if this would not leave a serious scar on the dignity/authority of the court and interfere with the administration of justice under the s of the Court. 8. “Bona fide” is an expression which has to be examined in the context of a given case. It cannot be understood in the abstract. The attendant circumstances, behaviour of the contemnor and the remorse or regret on his part are some of the relevant considerations which would weigh with the Court in deciding such an issue. Where, persistently, a person has attempted to overreach the process of Court and has persisted with the illegal act done in wilful violation to the s of the Court, it will be difficult for the Court to accept unconditional apology even if it is made at the threshold of the proceedings. It is not necessary for us to examine in any greater detail the factual matrix of the case since the disobedience, manipulation of procedure and violation of the schedule prescribed under the s of the Court is an admitted position. All that we have to examine is whether the apology tendered is bona fide when examined in the light of the attendant circumstances and whether it will be in the interest of justice to accept the same.