Thus, what was implicit in the Customs Act, 1962 has now been made explicit in the amendment to the Customs Act, 1962 vide Finance Act, 2022. 247. As per Section 5(1) of the Act, an “Officer of Customs” may exercise the powers and discharge the duties conferred or imposed on him under the Customs Act, 1962, subject to such conditions and limitations as the Board may impose. 248. The power to be exercised may be subject to such conditions and limitations as the Board may impose on such an “Officer of Customs”. Such officers can also exercise the powers and discharge the duties conferred or imposed on any other officers of customs who is subordinate to such officers. This aspect was also not brought to the attention of the Hon’ble Supreme Court in Canon India Private Limited Vs. Commissioner of Customs case referred to supra. 249. Only exception that has been provided was in Sub- Section (3) to Section 5 of the Act. As per Sub-Section 3 to Section 5 of the Act, a Commissioner (Appeals) cannot exercise the power and discharge the duties conferred or imposed on an “Officer of Customs” other than those specified in Section 108 of the Act and Chapter XV deals with the Appeals and Revisions. 250. Section 5 of the Customs Act, 1962 has also been amended in the Finance Act, 2022. Sub-Section (1A), (1B) and Sub-Section (4) and (5) to Section 5 of the Customs Act, 1962 have been now inserted. Section 5 as it stood prior to amendment and as it stands after amendment read as under:- 288 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports TABLE 5. Powers of Officers of Customs of the Customs Act, 1962 Before the After the 2022 amendment amendment Section (1) Subject to such conditions and limitations as the Board may impose, an officer of customs may exercise the powers and discharge the duties conferred or imposed on him under this Act. 1(A) : Without prejudice to the provisions contained in subsection (1), the Board may, by notification, assign such functions as it may deem fit, to an officer of customs, 91 who shall be the proper officer in relation to such functions. (1B) Within their jurisdiction assigned by the Board, the Principal Commissioner of Customs or Commissioner of Customs, as the case may be, may, by , assign such functions, as he may deem fit, to an “Officer of Customs”, who shall be the “Proper Officer” in relation to such functions.” (2) An Officer of Customs may excise the powers and discharge the duties conferred or imposed under this Act on any other officer of Customs who is subordinate to him. (3) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Section, a Commissioner (Appeals) shall not exercise the powers and discharge the duties conferred or imposed on an officer of customs other than those specified in Chapter XV and Section 108. “(4) In specifying the conditions and limitations referred to in sub-section (1), and in assigning functions under sub-section (1A), [2024] 12 S.C.R.