This Court held that the Rule did not fulfil or carry out the object sought to be achieved since as the Rules stood any person who may not have lived in a village at all can appear for SSC Examination from a village and yet become eligible for selection. The Court found that there was no nexus between the classification and the object sought to be achieved. The Court also faulted the weightage marks given by holding that since in the viva voce questions to judge the suitability of the candidate for working in rural areas were anyway being put, there was absolutely no occasion for giving weightage which would convert demerit into merit and merit into demerit. On the facts of that case, the Court found the rule of weightage to be manifestly unreasonable and wholly arbitrary. The said case has no application to the facts of the present case. 36. Equally the in Kailash Chand Sharma vs State of Rajasthan & Ors., (2002) 6 SCC 562 has also no application. 216 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports This Court in that case held that the award of bonus marks to the residents of the district and residents of the rural areas of the district amounts to impermissible discrimination. The Court found that there was no rational basis for such preferential treatment on the material placed before the Court. The Court found that the ostensible reasons advanced by the State were non-existent or irrelevant, having no nexus with the object sought to be achieved. It also found that no criteria was set out for determining as to residents in rural areas. The Court in Kailash Chand Sharma (supra) followed the in Raj Kumar (Supra). 37. The in Official Liquidator vs. Dayanand & Ors. (2008) 10 SCC 1 cited by the appellants has no connection at all with the issues raised in the present case. Yet another case cited by the appellants is Bedanga Talukdar (supra). The appellants relied on the said to contend that there could be no relaxation in the terms and conditions contained in the advertisement and even if there was power of relaxation the same will have to be specifically indicated in the advertisement. The case is wholly inapplicable. In this case, before the advertisement was issued, the guidelines setting out various aspects including the aspect of bonus marks were issued and, as discussed earlier, no infirmity can be found with the same. 38. Similarly, the in State of Rajasthan vs. Archana (2017) 11 SCC 421 and the in Civil Appeal 12335 of 2016 dated 18.01.2022 in Manoj Kumar Acharya vs. State of Rajasthan & Ors., cited by the State have no application to the facts of the present case. 39. The argument that the guideline was not in public domain was not an argument canvassed either before the learned Single Judge or before the Division Bench. In any event, the contention does not impress us on the facts of the present case. The guideline setting out the selection process was issued before the advertisement and it was applied uniformly and across the board to all the applicants.