Debt Recovery Appellate Tribunal2, whereby the auction sale held in favour of the appellants had been set aside and the appeal was dismissed. Brief facts in nutshell are as follows: 3. The firm-respondent no.3, had taken a loan from the respondent no.1- Bank. However, as it went into default, the Bank initiated proceedings under the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 20023. In the said recovery proceedings, the Recovery Officer conducted an open auction. The appellants were the highest bidder. Their bid was accepted and they made good the deposits as per the terms of this auction. Accordingly, a sale certificate was issued in their favour on 30.03.2009. It may be noted here that the appellants were tenants of the borrower in the premises in question which had been put to auction. As such the status of the appellants changed from that of tenants to that of owners after the sale was confirmed and sale certificate was issued. 4. The borrower-respondent nos.3 and 4 filed a securitization application under Section 17 of the SARFAESI Act for setting aside the sale on the ground that the Bank had not followed the statutory procedure prescribed under the Security Interest (Enforcement) Rules, 20024, in particular, the notice as required under Rules 8(6) and 8(7) which required a mandatory notice of 30 days to the borrower, had neither been issued nor served upon the borrower. 5. The DRT, after examining the matter, came to the conclusion that the Bank itself had admitted that the statutory compliance under the above rules had not been made and as such proceeded to set aside the sale vide dated 21.04.2015. The operative portion of the passed by the DRT is reproduced hereunder: “…The sale as pointed out earlier is liable to be quashed for the non-compliance of Rule 8(6) and 8(7) of the Security Interest (Enforcement) Rules, 2002. The auction purchaser set up his case that he has spent huge money on improvement of property in question. The auction 2 DRAT 3 SARFAESI Act 4 2002 Rules 636 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports purchaser has not place on record any material to prove the alleged improvements in the property. The auction purchaser is enjoying this property since 2009 as such auction purchaser is not entitled to any extra compensation. However, Bank will be under obligation to refund the auction money with interest as applicable to fixed deposit. The sale is accordingly set aside and it is made clear that Bank will refund the auction money only after receiving possession of property from auction purchaser within 15 days from the delivery of auction purchaser to the Bank. The applicant is directed to pay the dues of the sic within 15 days with upto date interest, failing which Bank will be at liberty to proceed further under Securitization and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act 2002 to recover its dues. xxx xxx xxx” 6. In effect the DRT, after setting aside the sale, further proceeded to direct the Bank to refund the auction money with interest as applicable to fixed deposits only after receiving possession of the property from the auction purchaser within 15 days thereof.