In Bhagmal and Ors Vs. Kunwar Lal and Others2 this Court held as follows: 2 (2010) 12 SCC 159 [2024] 12 S.C.R. 2081 Dwarika Prasad (D) Thr. LRs. v. Prithvi Raj Singh “12. It is to be seen here that the question of delay was completely interlinked with the merits of the matter. The appellant-defendants had clearly pleaded that they did not earlier come to the court on account of the fact that they did not know about the passed by the court proceeding ex parte and also the ex parte decree which was passed. It was further clearly pleaded that they came to know about the decree when they were served with the execution notice. This was nothing, but a justification made by the appellant-defendants for making 9 Rule 13 application at the time when it was actually made. This was also a valid explanation of the delay. The question of filing 9 Rule 13 application was, in our opinion, rightly considered by the appellate court on merits and the appellate court was absolutely right in coming to the conclusion that the appellant-defendants were fully justified in filing the application under 9 Rule 13 CPC at the time when they actually filed it and the delay in filing the application was also fully explained on account of the fact that they never knew about the decree and the s starting the ex parte proceedings against them. If this was so, the Court had actually considered the reasons for the delay also. Under such circumstances, the High Court should not have taken the hypertechnical view that no separate application was filed under Section 5. 13. The application under 9 Rule 13 CPC itself had all the ingredients of the application for condonation of delay in making that application. Procedure is after all handmaid of justice.” 12. From the above cases, it is clear that there was no need to file a separate application for condonation of delay in the present case as well. The High Court has erred in taking a hyper technical view and concluding that there was violation of mandatory provision of law. Endorsing such a view would effectively mean ignoring the purpose of judicial procedure. The procedure cannot stand in the way of achieving just and fair outcome. In the present case, the 2082 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports Appellant acted bona fide and diligently. His conduct does not violate any rule of law. 13. In view of the above discussion, we allow this appeal, set aside the impugned dated 24.05.2022 passed by High Court, and allow the writ petition and restore that of the Trial Court dated 29.04.2000. The Trial Court to proceed with O.S. No.81 of 1988 in accordance with law. As the suit is an old one, we further direct the Trial Court to expedite hearing of the suit and make an endeavour to decide the same within a year. It goes without saying that parties to the suit shall extend all cooperation in disposal of the suit.