67. In Spiliada Maritime Corp v. Cansulex Ltd. reported in [1987] AC 460, the House of Lords while considering a non-exclusive jurisdiction clause laid down the test for applying the doctrine of forum non conveniens to decline jurisdiction on the grounds that another forum is more appropriate. It held that where the court is satisfied that there is some other available forum, having competent jurisdiction, which is more appropriate to decide the dispute the courts can decline its jurisdiction or stay the proceedings before it in favour of a more suitable forum for the interests of all the parties and the ends of justice. The relevant observations read as under: - “The existence of a non-exclusive jurisdiction clause is a factor, but it is not conclusive. It must be weighed alongside other considerations of convenience and connection to determine the appropriate forum. The basic principle is that a stay will only be granted on the ground of forum non conveniens where the court is satisfied that there is some other available forum, having competent jurisdiction, which is the appropriate forum for the trial of the action, i.e., in which the case may be tried more suitably for the interests of all the parties and the ends of justice. The principle of forum non conveniens allows discretion to stay proceedings in favor of a clearly more appropriate forum unless justice requires the case to proceed in the chosen forum due to special circumstances. If the court concludes at the end of stage one that there is another clearly more appropriate forum, it will ordinarily grant a stay unless the plaintiff can show that there are [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1227 M/s Arif Azim Co. Ltd. v. M/s Micromax Informatics Fze special circumstances by reason of which justice requires that the trial should nevertheless take place in England. While the plaintiff’s choice of forum is significant, it is not decisive; the court must weigh it against factors that might inconvenience the defendant or make the chosen forum less appropriate for the interests of justice. If the defendant shows another available forum is more suitable, then the court should only retain jurisdiction if the plaintiff can show that substantial justice would not be achieved in the alternative forum. In determining whether there is another forum which is more appropriate for the trial of the action, the court will look for the forum with which the action has the most real and substantial connection.” (Emphasis supplied) 68. In Modi Entertainment Network v. W.S.G. Cricket Pte. Ltd. reported in (2003) 4 SCC 341, this Court observed that while construing a non-exclusive jurisdiction clause, where more forums than one are available, the court in exercise of its discretion will examine as to which is the appropriate forum (forum conveniens) having regard to the convenience of the parties. It further observed that Where parties have agreed, under a non-exclusive jurisdiction clause, to approach a neutral foreign forum and be governed by the law applicable to it for the resolution of their disputes arising under the contract, ordinarily should not be entertained as s it shall be presumed that the parties have thought over their convenience and all other relevant factors before submitting to the non- exclusive jurisdiction of the court of their choice which cannot be treated just as an alternative forum.