Hand sanitizer is a pharmaceutical product which is covered by Entry 19 of List III of the Concurrent List which deals with “drugs”. Since all entries must be interpreted widely, Entry 19 will also include the production and manufacture of drugs and will thus cover the materials (ENA or rectified spirit) used for the preparation. Usually the entries cover the materials used for the purpose of producing the product covered by that Entry. However, alcohol is an inherently noxious substance that is prone to misuse affecting public health at large. The purpose of Entry 8 is to cover alcohol that could be used noxiously to the detriment of public health. The Entry covers all alcohol that could be ‘prone’ to noxious use. It also covers variants of alcohol that are not used for the preparation of potable alcohol but which could be misused to harm public health. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2027 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons This interpretation is in consonance with the mischief sought to be covered by the Entry. Thus, while the entry covers ENA and rectified spirit which are used in the preparation of potable alcohol, it also covers variants of alcohol such as denatured alcohol which though are not used in the preparation of potable alcohol, are prone to be misused. 114. It is not disputed that denatured alcohol is prepared by adding substances which are called denaturants to give the alcohol a foul smell and taste. The very purpose of denaturing ethanol to prepare denatured alcohol is to make it undrinkable. This Court in VAM Organic (II) (supra) held that the State can regulate the process of preparing denatured alcohol because it is done to ensure that the public is protected from consuming illicit liquor but not the product of denatured spirit even if it can be renatured and converted to potable liquor.193 The petitioners further sought to make a classification between Specially Denatured Alcohol and Completely Denatured Alcohol. It was argued that though Specially Denatured Alcohol is not fit for human consumption, it can be made potable by certain recovery processes while there is no such possibility in Completely Denatured Alcohol.194 It was argued that Entry 8 must at the least cover Specially Denatured Alcohol. The issue of whether denatured alcohol can be renatured to produce potable alcohol is immaterial for the purposes of delineating the field of Entry 8 of List II. As held above, Entry 8 does not only cover potable alcohol but alcohol which may be used noxiously also. Thus, the test to be adopted is not whether the alcohol could be converted and used for the preparation of alcoholic beverages but whether it could be mischievously used for its preparation or as a substitute. 115. It was also argued by the petitioners that the phrase ‘intoxicating liquor’ must be interpreted to mean liquid containing alcohol. The consequence of this interpretation would be that it would include liquid products which may be covered by other entries, thereby, causing an overlap of the entries.