There are several parliamentary processes which do not take place on the floor of the House, i.e. when it is in session, having been summoned by the Governor. For instance, there are ad hoc committees and standing committees which examine various issues, including matters of policy or government administration. Many of these committees do not deliberate on laws or bills tabled in the House or cease to function when the ‘House’ is not sitting. There appears to be no reason why the deliberations that take place in such committees (“anything said”) would not be protected by parliamentary privilege. 87 174. Sessions of the State Legislature, prorogation and dissolution.— (1) The Governor shall from time to time summon the House or each House of the Legislature of the State to meet at such time and place as he thinks fit, but six months shall not intervene between its last sitting in one session and the date appointed for its first sitting in the next session. (2) The Governor may from time to time— (a) prorogue the House or either House; (b) dissolve the Legislative Assembly.] 88 168. Constitution of Legislatures in States.—(1) For every State there shall be a Legislature which shall consist of the Governor, and— (a) in the States of Andhra Pradesh], Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, and Uttar Pradesh, two Houses; (b) in other States, one House. (2) Where there are two Houses of the Legislature of a State, one shall be known as the Legislative Council and the other as the Legislative Assembly, and where there is only one House, it shall be known as the Legislative Assembly. [2024] 3 S.C.R. 575 Sita Soren v. Union of India 177. The elections to the Rajya Sabha conducted under Article 80 as referred to above, may also take place when the House is not in session as seats may fall vacant when the legislative assembly of the state is not in session. However, the elections remain a part of the functioning of the Legislature and take place within the precincts of the Legislative Assembly. Similarly, the elections for the President of India under Article 5489 and for the Vice President under Article 6690 may also take place when Parliament or the state legislative assemblies are not in session. However, they are an integral part of the powers and responsibilities of elected members of the Parliament and state legislative assemblies. The vote for such elections is given in the Legislature or Parliament, which is sufficient to invoke the protection of the first limb of Articles 105(2) and 194(2). Such processes are significant to the functioning of the legislature and in the broader structure of parliamentary democracy. There appears to be no restriction either in the text of Article 105(2) and Article 194(2), which pushes such elections outside of the protection provided by the provisions. Further, the purpose of parliamentary privilege to provide legislators with the platform to “speak” and “vote” without fear is equally applicable to elections to the Rajya Sabha and elections for the President and Vice President as well.