Therein it was mentioned that ACC Unit was commissioned during May 2015 and was performing satisfactorily since then. (r) On 6 March 2017 OPG confirmed that it would issue the required certificate for marketing purpose and that certificate would not absolve the claimant from its contractual obligations under the purchase s which, according to OPG, were yet to be fulfilled. (s) Following further exchanges between the parties, a meeting was held on 19 April 2018. The minutes72 of that meeting, inter alia, reflected that the principal amount outstanding towards Enexio under the contract was the one that was claimed by 72 See Paragraph 7 of this . 562 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Enexio in the claim. However, the minutes indicated that it was not payable because of certain deductions claimed by OPG. According to Enexio, those deductions (i.e. towards customs duty and liquidated damages) were incorrectly recorded in the minutes even though there was no agreement in respect thereof. (t) On 26 May 2018, on reiteration of demand by Enexio, OPG responded, vide communication dated 26 May 2018, and offered Rs.3 crores to Enexio as full and final settlement of the account. This offer was rejected by Enexio. Whereafter, arbitration proceeding commenced. Material Observations in the Award. 87. We shall now extract few observations/ findings in the award which, in our view, would be useful in determining the limitation issue. These observations/ findings, with their corresponding paragraph number in the award, are extracted below: “1). On 1st April 2013 the Claimant prepared its L1 Network Schedule which indicated the final activities leading to commissioning ..: Hook up with TG: 8-Mar-14 to 14-Mar-14 Commissioning 22-Mar-14 to 31-Mar-14. ……(para 13.02 of the award) 2). The Purchase s are silent on the mode of payment of the Claimant’s invoices except to note that: 7.3. 65% of the Price shall be paid on Pro rata basis along with 100% Taxes and Duties after receipt of material at site. 7.7 Payments will be made within twenty-five days of submission of Invoice/ request for payment and other documents. ….. (para 13.08 (b) of the award) 3). No indication is given in the Purchase s as to what ‘other documents are required. …..(para 13.08 (c) of the award) [2024] 9 S.C.R. 563 OPG Power Generation Private Limited v. Enexio Power Cooling Solutions India Private Limited & Anr. 4). The claimant asserts that until November 2013 payments were made to the claimant initially by Respondent no.2 and subsequently by Respondent no.1 by cheque/ RTGS but from 12th November 2013 all subsequent payments were made by letter of credit. In to receive payment by this method the claimant asserts that additional documentation was required which created delays in payment. ……(para 13.08 (d) of the award) 5). Respondent no.1 denies that there was delay in clearing payments to the claimant and asserts that all payments validly due to the claimant were made in time. Respondent no.1 asserts that: (i) Invoices were submitted by the claimant later than the date on the face of the invoice; (ii) To compute the period in which payment of an invoice is to be made the start date is the date on which the invoice, complete with all supporting documents, is received by Respondent no.1 which must be after receipt of the relevant material at site; and (iii) In many cases, invoices were not accompanied by the required backup documents and the payment of the invoice could not be released until these backup documents were submitted by the claimant.