(2) Once it is established that it has sovereign powers within a certain sphere, it must follow as a corollary that it is free to legislate within that sphere in any way which appears to it to be the best way to give effect to its intention and policy in making a particular law, and that it may utilise any outside agency to any extent it finds necessary for doing things which it is unable to do itself or finds it inconvenient to do. In other words, it can do everything which is ancillary to and necessary for the full and effective exercise of its power of legislation. (3) It cannot abdicate its legislative functions, and therefore while entrusting power to an outside agency, it must see that such agency acts as a subordinate authority and does not become a parallel legislature. (4) The doctrine of separation of powers and the judicial interpretation it has received in America ever since the American Constitution was framed, enables the American courts to check undue and excessive 204 (1951) SCC 568 [2024] 2 S.C.R. 549 Association for Democratic Reforms & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. delegation but the courts of this country are not committed to that doctrine and cannot apply it in the same way as it has been applied in America. Therefore, there are only two main checks in this country on the power of the legislature to delegate, these being its good sense and the principle that it should not cross the line beyond which delegation amounts to “abdication and self-effacement”’. 197 . InGwalior Rayon Silk Mfg. (Wvg.) Co. Ltd. v. Assistant Commissioner of Sales Tax and others,” a Constitution Bench of this Court held that a subordinate legislation is ancillary to the statute. Therefore, the delegate must enact the subordinate legislation “consistent with the law under which it is made and cannot go beyond the limits of the policy and standard laid down in the law.” Since the power delegated by a statute is limited by its terms, the delegate is expected to “act in good faith, reasonably, intra vires the power granted and on relevant consideration of material facts.”°°° This Court has to be cognizant of this distinction. In fact, the doctrine of manifest arbitrariness, as developed by this Court in Indian Express Newspapers (supra) in the context of subordinate legislation, was applicable to the extent that “it is so arbitrary that it could not be said to be in conformity with the statute or that it offends Article 14 of the Constitution.”2°” 198. The above discussion shows that manifest arbitrariness of a subordinate legislation has to be primarily tested vis-a-vis its conformity with the parent statute. Therefore, in situations where a subordinate legislation is challenged on the ground of manifest arbitrariness, this Court will proceed to determine whether the delegate has failed “to take into account very vital facts which either expressly or by necessary implication are required to be taken into consideration by the statute or, say, the Constitution.”*°° In contrast, 205 [1927 S4CR ]87 9 : (1974) 4 SCC 98 206 Shri Sitaram Sugar Co. Ltd. v. Union of India, (1990) 3 SCC 223 207 In Khoday Distilleries Ltd. V. State of Karnataka, (1996) 10 SCC 304, this Court reiterated Indian Express Newspapers (supra) by holding that a delegated legislation is manifestly arbitrary if it “could not be reasonably expected to emanate from an authority delegated with the law-making power.” Similarly, in State of Tamil Nadu v. P Krishnamurthy, [2030 S6CR ]39 6 : (2006) 4 SCC 517 this Court held that subordinate legislation can be challenged on the ground of manifest arbitrariness to an extent “where the court might well say that the legislature never intended to give authority to make such rules.” 208 Indian Express Newspapers (Bombay) (P) Ltd. v. Union of India, [1928 S5CR ]28 7 : (1985) 1 SCC 641 550 [2024] 2 S.C.R.