The investigation also disclosed that NEC members including Adv. Md. Yusuf, AS Ismail and Md. Ali Jinnah had also come to request for imparting weapons training to Muslim youth through mosques. 17.13 The investigation disclosed that during the months of November/December-2021, the accused persons A-1, A-2, A-3, A-5, A-6 recruited more Muslim youth through the mosques into PFI organisation and provided weapon training through Mohalla Committee to commit terrorist acts. The investigation also disclosed a three-pronged strategy of PFI organisation called “Trishul” to destroy all those who are against Islam, who attempt to destroy Islam and those who do not accept PFI organisation even if they are Muslims. 17.14 The investigation disclosed that A-1 had explained in PFI guidance classes on the importance of weapon training through Mohalla Committee to target enemies of PFI who are against Islamic rule in India. The investigation also disclosed that Subject 1, Subject 2 and Subject 3 are code words for training with knives, iron rods and swords. During the beginners camp, many Muslim youth 1026 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports who were recruited as PFI cadres were given unarmed physical training with bare hands and how to attack and neutralize targets. An introduction to weapons training was also imparted. The training of weapons is given during beginners camp, basic and secondary Physical training. Those who performed well were selected for attack teams. 17.15 The investigation disclosed that during the year 2012 and 2020, criminal cases were registered when the PFI cadres had conducted weapon training by A-4, A-7 and other PFI leaders/cadres in Ramanathapuram to the PFI cadres including recruits from various other states. 17.16 The investigation disclosed that the accused Ahamed Idhris @ AM Idris @ MA Idris (A-1) is the state level speaker of PFI and in charge of the Media team of PFI. He as a state level speaker used to deliver instigating speeches in the meetings organised by PFI. The accused had given speeches which were intended to instill perceived threat among Muslin community thereby making gullible Muslim youth to commit offences against the State and to commit offences against a particular community. To realize their larger conspiracy to make India an Islamic country by the year 2047 by striking terror on a section of people, thereby threatening the unity, integrity, security and sovereignty of India, he incited the cadres in the meetings organised by PF1. In the year 2022, PF1 organized a campaign called “Makkal Sangamam” for which Public meetings and exhibitions were organised all over Tamil Nadu, where the accused had given speeches at meetings held at K. Pudur, Madurai District Koothanallur, Tiruvarur District, and llayangudi, Sivanganga District. Further, as a media team in charge, he used to organize meetings of the team members. The primary duty of the media team is to collect alarming news, reports containing rumour, and spreading them among public and in the Masjids to create feelings of enmity on grounds of religion and to disrupt the public tranquility. With the same intent, he wrote articles for “Puthiya Vidiyal” such as Suthanthira Porattathil Parpaniya Throgam, Denial of justice (with regard to Babri Masjid Verdict).