The earlier and subsequent proceeding must have the same matter in issue; v. The earlier proceeding must have failed owing to a defect of jurisdiction of the earlier court or any other cause of a like nature; vi. The earlier proceedings must have been prosecuted in good faith and with due-diligence; and vii. Both the earlier and the subsequent proceedings must be before a court. 79. A three-Judge Bench of this Court in Consolidated Engg. Enterprises v. Irrigation Deptt. reported in (2008) 7 SCC 169, dealt with the question as to whether Section 14 of the Limitation Act would be applicable to an application submitted under Section 34 of the Act, 1996 for setting aside the award made by the arbitrator. The Court enumerated the conditions for the applicability of Section 14(1) as follows: “21. Section 14 of the Limitation Act deals with exclusion of time of proceeding bona fide in a court without jurisdiction. On analysis of the said section, it becomes evident that the following conditions must be satisfied before Section 14 can be pressed into service: (1) Both the prior and subsequent proceedings are civil proceedings prosecuted by the same party; (2) The prior proceeding had been prosecuted with due diligence and in good faith; [2024] 12 S.C.R. 181 M/s HPCL Bio-Fuels Ltd. v. M/s Shahaji Bhanudas Bhad (3) The failure of the prior proceeding was due to defect of jurisdiction or other cause of like nature; (4) The earlier proceeding and the latter proceeding must relate to the same matter in issue and; (5) Both the proceedings are in a court.” 80. Section 2 of the Limitation Act provides certain definitions. Some of them which are pertinent to the present discussion are reproduced hereinbelow: “In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,— (a) “applicant” includes— (i) a petitioner; (ii) any person from or through whom an applicant derives his right to apply; (iii) any person whose estate is represented by the applicant as executor, administrator or other representative; xxx xxx xxx (b) “application” includes a petition; xxx xxx xxx (h) “good faith” - nothing shall be deemed to be done in good faith which is not done with due care and attention; xxx xxx xxx (j) “period of limitation” means the period of limitation prescribed for any suit, appeal or application by the Schedule, and “prescribed period” means the period of limitation computed in accordance with the provisions of this Act; xxx xxx xxx (l) “suit” does not include an appeal or an application; 81. Section 2(1) as reproduced above clearly provides for a distinction between a ‘suit’ and an ‘application’ under the Limitation Act. Thus, the clear intention of the legislature was that they are not to be considered as the same for the purpose of Limitation Act. 182 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 82. In Section 11(6) of the Act, 1996, the words ‘the appointment shall be made, on an application of the party’ are used, thereby signifying that a Section 11 petition is in the nature of an ‘application’ and cannot be considered to be a ‘suit’ for the purposes of the Limitation Act.