He then tried to snatch the weapon from the appellant and in this scuffle, shots were fired from the weapon, which was an accident, which ultimately led to the death of the deceased. This, in short is the case of the defence. All the same, this trumped up story did not find favour with the trial court and the appellate court and understandably so as the prosecution has an overwhelming evidence to the contrary, which only points towards a dastardly murder at the hands of the present appellant. The prosecution case is primarily based on the statement of the eye witnesses present in the Police Station itself and mainly PW-2 who is a lady head constable and also the complainant. This witness has remained steadfast to her version of the incident, which was given in the first information report lodged by her; and later in her examination-in-chief and cross-examination, during the trial. She is [2024] 7 S.C.R. 169 Surender Singh v. State (NCT of Delhi) an extremely credible and trustworthy witness and the veracity of her statement and deposition establishes the guilt of the accused beyond reasonable doubt, and has its corroboration with other evidences, including ocular evidences of PW-1, PW-14 and PW-17, who were also constables or head Constables posted at Police Station Mayur Vihar, New Delhi, and were present at the Police Station at the relevant time. Additionally, this is also confirmed by the forensic evidence which was gathered by the Police during investigation from the site itself, to which we shall refer in a while. PW-2 was put to a lengthy cross-examination by the defence. In the cross-examination the defence made every possible attempt to cast doubt on the presence of this witness at the Police Station, but this was all in vain since there are more than one witnesses in this case which clearly establish the presence of PW-2 at the Police Station. Her presence is established by the other witnesses such as PW-1, PW-14 and PW-17, who were also Police constables posted at the same Police Station. Most importantly her presence is established by the fact that this witness (PW-2) is also an injured witness as she had sustained bullet injuries on her left shoulder. Her medical examination was done on the same day and the following injuries were found : 1. Lacerated wound 2x2 cm over left (L) shoulder near lateral end of clavicle, penetrating anterior aspect, fresh, oozing of blood. 2. Lacerated wound left (L) shoulder, posterior aspect near lateral end of clavicle, 3x3 cm, fresh, oozing of blood. PW-11, Head Constable Jai Prakash, is the one who took PW-2 to the LBS hospital and also testified before the court in this regard. PW-27, the SHO of the police station who investigated the case, also testified that he reached the police station right after the incident and then rushed to the hospital where he recorded the statement of PW-2. 10. In her examination-in-chief PW-2 says that on 30.06.2002, she was posted at Police Station, Mayur Vihar where she was to work as duty officer from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., but as she had some personal work in the morning that day, she had taken prior permission from the SHO to arrive late.