(2) No promotion shall be denied to a person merely on the ground of his disability: Provided that the appropriate Government may, having regard to the type of work carried on in any establishment, by notification and subject to such conditions, if any, as may be specified in such notification, exempt any establishment from the provisions of this section.” [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1741 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. 116. Dalco (supra) does not have a bearing on the interpretation of the term “establish” in Article 30 because it was concerned with the interpretation of the term “established by or under a Central, Provincial or State Act” as it occurs in a parliamentary statute. The words “establish and incorporate” in the long title of enactments must be read together holistically to understand the import of the expression. The other cases100 relied on by the Union of India in this respect are not applicable to the question before us for similar reasons. d. ‘Minority’ as on the commencement of the Constitution 117. Mr Dwivedi submitted that an educational institution to be a minority educational institution must have been established by a linguistic or religious minority at the time of establishment. He proposed that the following tests must be satisfied to determine if the community was a minority: a. The numerical test:101 Which community ruled the country when the university was established? Is the community which seeks to claim the right under Article 30 a minority compared to the former? b. The qualitative test of non-dominance:102 Even if the community which seeks to claim the right under Article 30 was in a numerical minority, was it in a non-dominant position in the state at the point of time at which the institution was established? c. The test of self-assessment: Did the specific persons who established the educational institute consider themselves to be a minority? 118. A preliminary question must be answered before addressing the feasibility and legality of adopting the above tests. What should be the relevant point to determine if the educational institution that was founded before the commencement of the Constitution was 100 Sukhdev Singh v. Bhagatram Sardar Singh Raghuvanshi (1975) 1 SCC 421; Vaish Degree College v. Lakshmi Narain (1976) 2 SCC 58; S.S. Dhanoa v. MCD (1981) 3 SCC 431 101 See opinion of Justice Ruma Pal in TMA Pai (supra) 102 See opinion of Justice Quadri in TMA Pai (supra) 1742 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports established by a minority? Should it be determined based on the time of establishment, the time of the commencement of the Constitution, or the time when the right was claimed. 119. Before the commencement of the Constitution, there was no concept of minority institutions, both linguistic and religious. The guarantee and the protection given by the Constitution are applicable on the date when the Constitution was adopted. It is on this date that it must be determined if the right under Article 30 accrues. However, when the question of whether the educational institution was established by a linguistic or a religious minority arises, we will have to relate back to the point in time when the institution was established.