It stipulates that royalty in respect of any mineral is to be paid on an Ad valorem basis. It further provides that royalty shall be calculated at the specified percentage of the ‘average sale price’ of such mineral for the month of removal / consumption as published by the Indian Bureau of Mines. 80 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 12. Rule 42 of the MCR, 2016 provides the manner in which the ‘average sale price’ shall be computed. Rule 42 sub-rule (1) stipulates that the average sale price of mineral grade / concentrate shall be computed on the basis of its ‘ex-mine price’. Rule 42 sub-rule (3) further provides that the ‘average sale price’ shall be the weighted average of the ‘ex-mine price’ as computed in terms of sub-rule (2) of Rule 42. Rule 42 sub-rule (2)(b) provides that the ‘ex-mine price’ shall be computed as the sale value of the mineral less the actual expenditure incurred where the sale takes place domestically but beyond the mining lease area. The said provision reads as under: - “42. Computation of average sale price. (1) The ex-mine price shall be used to compute average sale price of mineral grade/concentrate. (2) The ex-mine price of mineral grade or concentrate shall be: (a) where export has occurred, the free-on-board (F.O.B) price of the mineral less the actual expenditure incurred beyond the mining lease area towards transportation charges by road, loading and unloading charges, railway freight (if applicable), port handling charges/export duty, charges for sampling and analysis, rent for the plot at the stocking yard, handling charges in port, charges for stevedoring and trimming, any other incidental charges incurred outside the mining lease area as notified by the Indian Bureau of Mines from time-to-time, divided by the total quantity exported. (b) where domestic sale has occurred, sale value of the mineral less the actual expenditure incurred towards transportation loading, unloading, rent for the plot at the stocking yard, charges for sampling and analysis and any other charges beyond mining lease area as notified by the Indian Bureau of Mines from time-to-time, divided by the total quantity sold. (c) where sale has occurred, between related parties and/or where the sale is not on arms’ length basis, then such sale shall not be recognized as a sale [2024] 12 S.C.R. 81 Kirloskar Ferrous Industries Limited & Anr v. Union of India & Ors. for the purpose of this rule and in such case, sub- clause (d) shall be applicable. (d) where sale has not occurred, the average sale price published monthly by the Indian Bureau of Mines for that mineral grade / concentrate for a particular State: Provided that if for a particular mineral grade / concentrate, the information for a State for a particular month is not published by the Indian Bureau of Mines, the last available information published for that mineral grade / concentrate for that particular State by the Indian Bureau of Mines in the last six months previous to the reporting month shall be used, failing which the latest information for All India for the mineral grade / concentrate, shall be used.