5 on the basis of draw lots held on 17.06.2019 for running of RO Dealership at village Patta, Tehsil Arki, District Solan, H.P. ii) Issue a writ of mandamus directing the Respondent Nos. 1 to 4 to process the case of the petitioner for allotment of RO Dealership being most eligible applicant forthwith. iii) Issue writ of mandamus directing the Respondent Nos. 1 to 4 to action who initiate appropriate has connived with respondent No. 5 in violating of RO Dealership Guidelines. iv) Call for the records pertaining to the case at hand. v) Direct the Respondent authorities to pay the cost of the petitions.” 13. The Writ Petition came to be allowed vide the impugned passed by the High Court. 14. The High Court while allowing the Writ Petition filed by the Respondent No.5 observed in paras 32 to 44 as under:- [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1257 Pawan Kumar v. Union of India & Ors. “32) None of these facts had been disclosed by respondent no.5 in his application. 33) Admittedly, Annexure P-3 Brochure issued by the Corporation for selection of dealer for retail outlets, contains Clause 22 which states as under:- “22 FALSE INFORMATION If any statement made in the application or in the documents enclosed therewith or subsequently submitted in pursuance of the application by the candidate at any stage is found to have been suppressed/misrepresented/incorrect or false, then the application is liable to be rejected without assigning any reason and in case the applicant has been appointed as a dealer, the dealership is liable to be terminated. In such cases the candidate/dealer shall have no claim whatsoever against the respective Company.” 34) Thus, if any statement made in the application submitted by an applicant like respondent no.5 was at any stage found to have been false, incorrect or certain facts are found to have been suppressed or misrepresented, then the application was liable to be rejected by the Corporation without assigning any reason and in case, an applicant had been appointed as a dealer, the dealership was liable to be terminated. 35) Strangely, notwithstanding such a Clause having been incorporated in the Brochure issued by the Corporation, and notwithstanding the fact that the petitioner had informed about the false information furnished by respondent no.5 to respondents no.2 to 4 on 25.06.2019 (including the factum of pendency of a Civil Suit between Leeladhar and his brother Dinesh Kumar), respondents no.2 to 4 went ahead and issued the Letter of Intent on 21.09.2019 to respondent No.5 in gross violation of Clause-22, referred to above. 1258 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 36) In our considered opinion, it was not open to respondents no.2 to 4/Corporation to grant the retail outlet dealership to respondent no.5 in the face of Clause-22 of the Brochure, merely on the ground that there was a subsequent Out of Court Settlement between Leeladhar and his brother Dinesh Kumar and Dinesh Kumar later gave an affidavit stating that he has no objection for grant of retail outlet dealership to respondent no.5.