His son Shafi had 3 daughters & one of them (Haneefa) is the mother of the Petitioner No.1 herein. ii. The other son, Gafoor did not have any children and therefore, his share devolved upon his wife, namely Vakila. Her name was accordingly mutated in the revenue records. Later, Vakila married the Respondent herein, i.e. Shaqoor. iii. In the year 2003, the property in dispute was brought under consolidation proceedings and a notification to that effect was published in the Gazette. iv. It is averred by the Respondent herein that after the death of his wife-Vaqila in 2009, the mother of Petitioner No.1 (Haneefa) fraudulently claimed to be the daughter of Gafoor and by impersonation, inherited the property which had devolved upon Vakila and got herself recorded as the co-tenure holder of the property on 03.08.2016 v. Thereafter, it is alleged that mother of Petitioner No. 1 (Haneefa) executed a Sale Deed dt. 09.08.2016 in favour of Petitioner No. 2 and in this way, alienated and sold the property, to which she had no title or any transferable right in respect thereof. 5. A Civil Suit praying for the relief of cancellation of the Sale Deed dated 09.08.2016 was then filed by the Respondent herein before the Civil Judge (Junior Division), Laksar (hereinafter referred to as ‘the Civil Court’). The mother of petitioner No. 1-Haneefa and petitioner No. 2-Jodh Singh, who had purchased the property were impleaded as Defendant Nos. 1 and 2 respectively in the suit. 6. On 09.09.2016, an application came to be filed by Petitioner No. 2 herein before the Civil Court praying for an that suit stands abated as per Section 5(2) (a) of the Consolidation Act, which reads as under: (2) Upon the said publication of the notification under sub- section (2) of Section 4, the following further consequences shall ensue in the area to which the notification relates, namely- (a) every proceeding for the correction of records and every suit and proceeding in respect of declaration of [2024] 9 S.C.R. 967 Khursheed & Anr. v. Shaqoor rights or interest in any land lying in the area, or for declaration or adjudication of any other right in regard to which proceeding can or ought to be taken under this Act, pending before any court or authority whether of the first instance or of appeal, reference or revision, shall, on an being passed in that behalf by the court or authority before whom such suit or proceedings is pending, stand abated: Provided that no such shall be passed without giving to the parties notice by post or in any other manner and after giving them an opportunity of being heard: Provided further that on the issue of a notification under sub-section (1) of Section 6 in respect of the said area or part thereof, every such in relation to the land lying in such area or part as the case may be, shall stand vacated; (b) Such abatement shall be without prejudice to the rights of the persons affected to agitate the right or interest in dispute in the said suits or proceedings before the appropriate consolidation authorities under and in accordance with the provisions of this Act and the rules made there under.