Pursuantly, in paragraph 93, the bench therein formulated the following questions: “93. Can Article 30(1) be so read as to mean that it contains an absolute right of the minorities, whether based on religion or language, to establish and administer educational institutions in any manner they desire, and without being obliged to comply with the provisions of any law? Des Article 30(1) give the religious or linguistic minorities a right to establish an educational institution that propagates religious or racial bigotry or ill will amongst the people? Can the right under Article 30(1) be so exercised that it is opposed to public morality or health? In the exercise of its right, would the minority while establishing educational institutions not be bound by town planning rules and regulations? Can they construct and maintain buildings in any manner they desire without complying with the provisions of the building by-laws or health regulations?” b. After due discussion and a detailed reference to Kerala Education Bill (supra) and Sidhajbhai Sabhai (supra), the Constitution Bench in TMA Pai (supra) answered these questions in paragraph 107 which reads as follows: “107. The aforesaid decision does indicate that the right under Article 30(1) is not so absolute as to prevent the government from making any regulation whatsoever. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1849 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. As already noted hereinabove, in Sidhajbhai Sabhai's case, it was laid down that regulations made in the true interests of efficiency of instruction, discipline, health, sanitation, morality and public could be imposed. If this is so, it is difficult to appreciate how the government can be prevented from framing regulations that are in the national interest, as it seems to be indicated in the passage quoted hereinabove. Any regulation framed in the national interest must necessarily apply to all educational institutions, whether run by the majority or the minority. Such a limitation must necessarily be read into Article 30. The right under Article 30(1) cannot be such as to override the national interest or to prevent the government from framing regulations in that behalf. It is, of course, true that government regulations cannot destroy the minority character of the institution or make the right to establish and administer a mere illusion; but the right under Article 30 is not so absolute as to be above the law. It will further be seen that in Sidhajbhai Sabhai’s case, no reference was made to Article 29(2) of the Constitution. This decision, therefore, cannot be an authority for the proposition canvassed before us.” [Emphasis supplied] c. It may thus be seen that the decision in Sidhajbhai Sabhai (supra), which holds that the “fundamental freedom under Clause (1) of Article 30, is absolute in terms; it if; not made subject to any reasonable restrictions” has in fact been expressly disapproved by TMA Pai (supra). In essence, Sidhajbhai Sabhai (supra) has thus lost its binding nature,in that context. 189.3. Whether a two-judge bench would be competent to make a reference to a larger bench of seven-judges?