Instead, it was conceived as a concept intended to cultivate a sense of brotherhood amongst all individuals within society.87 Dr. B.R. Ambedkar elucidated this core idea of fraternity in the following words: “…What is your ideal society if you do not want caste is a question that is bound to be asked of you. If you ask me, my ideal would be a society based on Liberty, Equality and Fraternity. And why not? What objection can there be to Fraternity? I cannot imagine any. An ideal society should be mobile, should be full of channels for conveying a change taking place in one part to other parts. In an ideal society there should be many interests consciously communicated and shared. There should be varied and free points of contact with other modes of association. In other words, there must be social endosmosis. This is fraternity, which is only another name for democracy. Democracy is not merely a form of Government. It is primarily a mode of associated living, of conjoint communicated experience. It is essentially an attitude of respect and reverence towards fellowmen.” [Emphasis supplied] 100. The idea of fraternity was therefore envisioned as a deep sense of well-being for others and understood as essential to counterbalance individualism, thereby preventing anarchy and sustaining moral in society. It emphasized that a thriving democracy could be achieved through fraternity, which enabled the notions of liberty and equality to support each other rather than undermine one another. Further, it gave rise to the belief that the ideals of equality, liberty and fraternity could not be divorced from each other, as equality and liberty without fraternity would result in the supremacy of the few over the many.88 87 Dr. BABsAheB AmBeDKAr writinGs AnD speeChes, Dr. Ambedkar Foundation, Vol. 1, 57, https://www.mea. gov.in/Images/attach/amb/Volume_01.pdf. 88 Dr. B.R. Ambedkar, supra note 85. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1057 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 101. During the deliberations of the Constituent Assembly, the concepts of equality, fraternity, and liberty were perceived as constituting a trinity, forming the very bedrock of democracy. The notion of equality was afforded considerable impetus on account of the prevailing graded inequality within Indian society, characterized by affluence for some and abject poverty for many. Recognizing that various approaches might not eliminate disparities in social and economic aspects of the citizens’ lives, they formulated the principle of “one man, one value”, intending to create a level playing field for all.89 However, the framers believed that equality devoid of liberty could lead to the forfeiture of individuality. Moreover, they recognized that in the absence of fraternity, the harmonious coexistence of liberty and equality would not be inherent or natural, necessitating external enforcement measures.90 102. The genesis of the very notion of fraternity can be traced back to the French ideal of fraternity or fraternité, originating from the French Revolution and intricately connected with the principles of liberty and equality. This period in French history reflected a marked shift from feudalistic societies governed by hereditary status to a society aspiring to be a democratic ideal.