The observations made by the High Court are reproduced hereinbelow: “27. The Company is neither a party nor was any notice served upon the Company of which the petitioner as director issued the cheque. 28. The petitioner is the sole accused/opposite party in the complaint case, having signed the cheque as Director of the company, for and on its behalf. xxx xxx xxx 30. The facts in the present case is very similar to the case, in Himanshu vs. B. Shivamurthy & Anr. (Supra). xxx xxx xxx 31. In the present case:- a) The company has not been made an accused nor was any notice served upon the company, though the cheque was issued on behalf of the company. b) The petitioner has been made an accused as the person, who signed and issued the cheque. 32. Therefore, in the absence of the company being arraigned as an accused, a complaint against the petitioner is not maintainable Himanshu vs. B. Shivamurthy & Anr. (supra). xxx xxx xxx 37. In the present case the presumption is clearly in favour of the complainant and the petitioner has not been able to rebut the said presumption under Section 139 N.I. Act. 1968 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports But there is no compliance under Section 141 N.I. Act and as such the proceedings in the present case is clearly not maintainable.” 21. In view of the aforesaid, the High Court set aside the of the Sessions Court which had upheld the of conviction passed by the Trial Court. The operative part of the impugned passed by the High Court is extracted hereinbelow: “40. The and dated February 22, 2019 passed by the Court of the Learned Additional Sessions Judge, Raghunathpur at Purulia, in connection with Criminal Appeal No. 03 of 2017 thereby affirming the and dated July 19, 2017 passed by the Learned Magistrate, 1 Court, Raghunathpur, Purulia in C. Case No. 39 of 2006 under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881 thereby convicting the petitioner under Section 255(2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 for Commission of offence punishable under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881 and sentencing the petitioner to suffer simple imprisonment for one year and to pay compensation of Rs. 10 lakhs to the Opposite Party no.2 within two months from the date of the , in default, to suffer rigorous imprisonment of further two months, is hereby set aside/quashed.” 22. The complainant being dissatisfied with the and passed by the High Court acquitting the accused of the alleged offence, has come up before this Court with the present appeal. B. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE APPELLANT / COMPLAINANT 23. Mr. Uddyam Mukherjee, the learned counsel appearing for the complainant, vehemently submitted that the High Court committed an egregious error in acquitting the accused on the ground that he could not have been held vicariously liable for the offence said to have been committed by the company in the absence of the company being prosecuted and punished.