Due to this, the concept of juridical seat of the arbitral proceedings and its interrelationship with the jurisdiction of courts in respect of arbitral proceedings the Doctrine of Concurrent Jurisdiction emerged in the Indian Arbitration Regime. i. The Notional Doctrine of Concurrent Jurisdiction and Applicability of Part I of the Arbitration & Conciliation Act, 1996. 27. It can thus be seen from the discussion in the preceding paragraphs of this that the scheme of the Act, 1996 is bifurcated into distinct parts being Part I, II, III & IV. Each of these parts delineates a unique scheme that deals with different aspects of arbitration or conciliation as the case may be. Section 11 of the Act, 1996 which inter-alia empowers this Court to appoint an arbitrator in case of an international commercial arbitration is contained in Part I of the said Act. Section 2(2) in Part I of the Act, 1996 expressly provides that this part (sic Part I and by extension the provisions thereunder) shall apply where the place of arbitration is in India. The said provision is reproduced hereunder: - “2. Definitions. xxx xxx xxx (2) This Part shall apply where the place of arbitration is in India. Provided that subject to an agreement to the contrary the provisions of section 9, 27 and clause (a) of sub-section (1) and sub-section (3) of Section 37 shall also apply to international commercial arbitration, even if the place of arbitration is outside India, and an arbitral award made or [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1169 M/s Arif Azim Co. Ltd. v. M/s Micromax Informatics Fze to be made in such place is enforceable and recognized under the provisions of Part II of this Act.” 28. Thus, a cursory reading of the aforesaid provision makes it clear that the exercise of power to appoint an arbitrator under Section 11 of the Act, 1996 is dependent upon whether the said Part is applicable in the first place or not. As such it would be apposite to first understand the scope of Part I of the Act, 1996, more particularly the import of the expression “where the place of arbitration is in India” occurring in Section 2(2) of the Act and in which situations is the said Part applicable in to enable this Court to exercise its powers under Section 11 to appoint an arbitrator. a. Pre-BALCO Regime. 29. In National Thermal Power Corporation v. Singer Company & Ors. reported in (1992) 3 SCC 551, although the award which was the subject-matter of the said case had been challenged under the then Act, 1940 yet the observations made therein by this Court in regards the applicability of the Act, 1940 are significant insofar as the Act, 1996 is concerned. In the aforesaid case, the question before this Court was whether the Act, 1940 was applicable to the arbitration agreement between the parties therein. This Court held as follows: - (i) First, it held that the choice of law governing the arbitration agreement i.e., the lex arbitri would determine which system of law would be applicable.