How List Type Affects Electoral Performance, Candidate Selection, and Campaign Effort, VAT Institute for Economic Research Working Papers 120 (2019) [2024] 2 S.C.R. 500 Digital Supreme Court Reports definitively drawn particularly in view of the design of the electoral voting machine which has a list of the names of the candidates who are contesting the election from the constituency along with the symbol of the political party which is fielding the candidate. Voters casts their votes based on two considerations: the capability of the candidate as a representative and the ideology of the political party. 90. Political parties publish electoral manifestos containing the ideology of the party, major policies of the political party, plans, programmes and other considerations of governance which would be implemented if they came to power. '*” While political manifestos do not necessarily always translate to policies when the party is elected to power, they throw light upon the integral nature of political parties in the electoral system. By publishing an election manifesto, a political party communicates to the voters that they must accord preference to the political party. Party manifestos prod voters to look away from a candidate centric and towards a party centric perception of elections. 91. Lastly, the prominence of political parties as electoral units is further heightened by the form of government in India. India follows a Westminister system of government which confers prominence to political parties without strictly separating between the legislature and the executive. The time-honoured convention of the cabinet form of government is that the leader of the political party with absolute majority must be called to form the government.’ The Council of Ministers is appointed by the President on the aid and advice of the Prime Minister.’ Political parties are intrinsic to this form of government because of the very process of government formation. The recommendations of the Sarkaria Commission on the exercise of discretion by the Governor when no single political party commands an absolute majority, which has been given judicial recognition in RamePrassad hv. wUnioan ofr In dia,"° also prioritises political parties making them central to the governance structure.™ 107 Election Commission of India, Instructions to political parties on manifestos dated 24.04.2015, https:// www.eci.gov.in/election-manifestos/ 108 Constitution of India 1950, Article 75. See, Aradhya Sethia, “Where’s the party? : towards a constitutional biography of political parties, Indian Law Review, 3:1, 1-32 (2019) 109 Ibid. 110 [2010 S6CR ]56 2 : (2006) 2 SCC 1 111 65. “Para 4.11.04 of the Sarkaria Commission Report specifically deals with the situation where no single party obtains absolute majority and provides the of preference the Governor should follow in [2024] 2 S.C.R. 501 Association for Democratic Reforms & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. 92. The centrality of political parties in the electoral system is further accentuated by the inclusion of the Tenth Schedule. The Tenth Schedule deals with disqualification on the ground of defection from the political party which set up the elected individual as its candidate. Paragraph 2 provides the following grounds of defection: a.