Digital Supreme Court Reports on the Will and that he witnessed the same. He further stated the Will was registered in the office of Sub-Registrar. 10.1. In his cross-examination, he stated that on enquiry testator told him that the Plaintiff can take the suit property and other properties can be taken by the Defendants i.e., his wife and daughter. This shows that even at the time of execution of the Will, the testator was fully conscious of the welfare of his widow and minor daughter as sufficient property was left for them. 11. The Plaintiff examined PW-2/Vadivelu, who was the attesting witness to the Will. In his examination-in-chief he stated that the testator was very well known to him and that he was witness in the above Will. He stated that the Will was written under a tree at Palavur. Details were given by the Testator. After writing of Will, the testator asked PW-4/ scribe to read over the same. After hearing and being satisfied the testator had put his thumb impression. He and one other attesting witness, Muruganian (DW-2), had witnessed the testator putting thumb impression on the Will. In his cross-examination he stated that the Will was written without compulsion and in good conscious were expressed by Testator alone. He asked testator whether he was having any legal heir and testator told him that as per his desire alone the Will was written. 11.1. The Defendants examined Murugaian, who was also an attesting witness to the Will, as DW-2, who in his examination- in-chief stated that he was asked by Paramasivam, who is husband of the Plaintiff, to be witness in the office of Sub- Registrar. He further stated that he was requested to sign as witness and after putting his signature he returned. DW-2 further stated that he did not see the testator put his thumb impression. In Cross-examination DW-2 stated that he saw the testator sitting under a tree and that the testator told him that he was writing the Will in favour of his heirs. 12. It is the admitted case of the appellants that the testator left behind about 8 acres of land and three houses. What has been bequeathed to the respondent is merely a part of testator’s entire property i.e. land measuring approximately 3.5 Acres. Meaning thereby the balance property of the testator is in possession of widow and daughter. This is how the interest of the natural legal heirs has been taken care of. [2024] 3 S.C.R. 153 Thangam and Another v. Navamani Ammal 12.1. The reason to bequeath a part of the property in favour of the respondent is also evident from the material available on record. It has come in evidence that the testator was not keeping good heath as he was suffering from asthma and cough. The appellants were not living with him for quite sometime as it is the admitted case of DW-1 in her cross-examination that she had gone to her paternal home on account of marriage of her brother and was not living with the testator at the time of execution of Will.