Condonation of delay is a matter of judicial discretion, which must be exercised judiciously and reasonably in the facts and circumstances of a case. It will depend upon the breach of fundamental rights, and the remedy claimed, and when and how the delay arose. There is no period of limitation prescribed for the [2024] 9 S.C.R. 871 Kukreja Construction Company & Others v. State of Maharashtra & Others courts to exercise their constitutional jurisdiction to do substantial justice.” (emphasis supplied) 17.1 On the question of the principles the Court should rely upon when exercising the discretion to condone delay and laches, the following s are instructive. (a) In Dehri Rohtas Light Rly. Co. Ltd. vs. District Board, Bhojpur (1992) 2 SCC 598, this Court noted that: “13... The principle on which the relief to the party on the grounds of laches or delay is denied is that the rights which have accrued to others by reason of the delay in filing the petition should not be allowed to be disturbed unless there is a reasonable explanation for the delay. The real test to determine delay in such cases is that the petitioner should come to the writ court before a parallel right is created and that the lapse of time is not attributable to any laches or negligence. The test is not as to physical running of time. Where the circumstances justifying the conduct exist, the illegality which is manifest cannot be sustained on the sole ground of laches.” (emphasis supplied) (b) In Tukaram Kana Joshi vs. Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (2013) 1 SCC 353, this Court held, albeit in the context of the State taking over possession of land without any sanction of law, to the following effect: “12… Our Constitution is an organic and flexible one. Delay and laches is adopted as a mode of discretion to decline exercise of jurisdiction to grant relief. There is another facet. The Court is required to exercise judicial discretion. The said discretion is dependent on facts and circumstances of the cases. Delay and laches 872 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports is one of the facets to deny exercise of discretion. It is not an absolute impediment. There can be mitigating factors, continuity of cause action, etc. That apart, if the whole thing shocks the judicial conscience, then the Court should exercise the discretion more so, when no third-party interest is involved.” (emphasis supplied) (c) In Kazi Moinuddin Kazi Bashiroddin vs. Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation, 2022 SCC OnLine SC 1325, at para 26, this Court noted that, in matters relating to payment of amount of compensation to land losers, if at all two views are possible, the view that advances the cause of justice is always to be preferred rather than the other view, which may draw its strength only from technicalities. 17.2 On the question of abandonment or waiver of rights, this Court in G.T. Lad vs. Chemical and Fibres of India Ltd. (1979) 1 SCC 590 noted, albeit in the context of workmen abandoning service, that “to constitute abandonment, there must be total or complete giving up of duties so as to indicate an intention not to resume the same”.