67. The legislative policy of enrolment and admission of advocates is contained in Chapter III of the Advocates Act. Section 24(1) lays down the qualifications subject to which an advocate may be admitted on a State roll. Section 24(1)(f) provides that the enrolment fee payable by general candidates is Rupees seven hundred fifty and by SC and ST candidates, Rupees one hundred and twenty-five. Section 24(1) (f) reflects the legislative policy of the Advocates Act that subject to the fulfilment of other conditions of Section 24(1), the payment of the stipulated monetary amount will make a person eligible to be admitted as an advocate. 68. Presently, the SBCs charge enrolment fees in the following manner: (i) they charge an enrolment fee according to the legal stipulation under Section 24(1)(f), but charge miscellaneous fees, and (ii) they charge an enrolment fee beyond the legal stipulation in addition to charging miscellaneous fees. Section 24(1)(f) expressly stipulates that the total enrolment fees shall be Rupees seven hundred fifty for advocates belonging to the general category and Rupees one hundred twenty- five for advocates belonging to the SC and ST category. The SBCs cannot charge “enrolment fees” beyond the express legal stipulation under Section 24(1)(f) as it currently stands. Therefore, prescribing enrolment fees beyond Rupees seven hundred for general candidates and Rupees one hundred twenty-five for SC and ST candidates is contrary to Section 24(1)(f). The subject matter of enrolment fee is covered by the Advocates Act. Therefore, the SBCs, being delegated authorities, do not have any legislative powers to prescribe enrolment fees contrary to the statutory stipulation. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1531 Gaurav Kumar v. Union of India and Ors. 69. As discussed in the above segments of this , the legislature prescribed the enrolment fee under Section 24(1)(f) to cover “all functions” carried out by the SBCs and the BCI under the Advocates Act. The legislative history suggests that the legislature was averse to imposing any charges other than enrolment fees at the time of enrolment. This was in furtherance of the legislative object to foster an inclusive Bar. However, the SBCs are imposing miscellaneous fees and charges in the guise of an enrolment fee, which cumulatively exceed the statutory stipulation under Section 24(1)(f). The decision of the SBCs to charge an enrolment fee beyond the stipulated amount is contrary to the legislative object of the Advocates Act. 70. Section 24(1)(f) is a fiscal regulatory provision and has to be construed strictly. Parliament has prescribed the enrolment fees in the exercise of its sovereign legislative powers. The SBCs and the BCI, being delegates of Parliament, cannot alter or modify the fiscal policy laid down by Parliament. The delegate can create substantive rights and obligations only to the extent to which the parent enactment empowers the delegate.79 By prescribing additional fees at the time of enrolment, the SBCs have created new substantive obligations not contemplated by the provisions of the Advocates Act. The basis for the fees imposed by the SBCs has to be traceable to the provisions of the statute.