The fact that the same has not been done shows that there was no trick or device resorted to by the appellant. It is a trivial error which appears to be a genuine and bona fide mistake. It will be unjust to penalise the appellant for the same. 21. Learned counsel for the State, in the written submissions, stated that the instructions clearly stipulated that if two or more candidates obtain the same marks in the Physical Eligibility Test, their relative rank in the final merit list could be determined on the basis of their date of birth. The implication in the submission is that the date of birth is a significant aspect. On that basis, he submits that the cancellation ought to be upheld. We do not find merit in the submission. The original date of birth, as available is 18.12.1997, in the educational certificates. There is no dispute that the appellant’s date of birth was, in fact, 18.12.1997. In view of that, we do not see the said clause in the instructions as an impediment for the selection of the appellant. 22. Learned counsel for the State has also, in the written submissions, cited the of this Court in Yogesh Kumar and Others [2024] 1 S.C.R. 9 VASHIST NARAYAN KUMAR v. THE STATE OF BIHAR & ORS. vs. Govt. of NCT, Delhi and Others, (2003) 3 SCC 548. The said is clearly distinguishable. There the issue was about allowing entry of ineligible persons into the selection. While the eligibility prescribed was Teacher’s Training Certificate from a recognized institute or intermediate or equivalent from a recognized Board/ University with an elective subject in the required language at the matric level, candidates with B.Ed. degree sought appointment as Assistant Teacher. Negating their claim, this Court held that the B.Ed. qualification cannot be treated as a qualification higher than the Teacher’s Training Certificate, because the nature of the training imparted for grant of certificate and for grant of degree was totally different. In that context, this Court held that deviating from the rules and allowing entry to ineligible persons would deprive many others who could have competed for the post. Yogesh Kumar (supra) has no application to the facts of the present case. Equally distinguishable are the s of the Delhi High Court in Rohit Kumar and Another vs. Union of India and Others, 2022 SCC OnLine Del 1219 and Pradeep Kumar vs. Union of India and Others, 2022 SCC OnLine Del 239. 23. In the case of Rohit Kumar (supra), the undisputed facts, as is clear from para 10 of the , was that the candidate was declared unsuccessful on two counts, namely, that the OBC certificate uploaded by the candidate was not as per the format as mentioned in the advertisement and additionally on the ground that the date of issuance of the certificate was wrongly mentioned in the online application. 24. In Pradeep Kumar (supra), the identity proof (Aadhaar Card) was not uploaded and instead the self photograph of the candidate has been uploaded.