[Para 23] [Per B.V. Nagarathna, J. (concurring)] Interpretation of Statutes – Non-obstante clause – Utility of: Held: The utility of non-obstante clause is where there is a conflict between what is stated in a provision and any other law for the time being in force, or anything else contained in the said enactment – As already noted, only in the case of a conflict, the object is to give the enacting or operative portion of the section an overriding effect, not otherwise – In other words, only in a case of a conflict, a provision in an enactment containing a non-obstante clause, would be given its full operation and what is stated in the non-obstante clause will not be an impediment for the operation of the particular provision in the enactment – This would mean that what is stated in the non-obstante clause would not take away the effect of any provision of the Act which follows the same. [Para 25] [Per B.V. Nagarathna J. (concurring)] Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 – s.125 – Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Divorce) Act, 1986 – s.3 – Section 3(1) begins with a non-obstante clause as, “notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force” – Intention of Parliament: Held: The intent of the Parliament which can be gathered from the use of such a non-obstante clause is to enhance the right of a [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1245 Mohd. Abdul Samad v. The State of Telangana & Anr. divorced Muslim woman in addition to what she would have been entitled to under Section 125 of the CrPC – If the intent of the Parliament was otherwise, i.e., to curtail the rights of a divorced Muslim woman then the non-obstante clause would not have found a place in sub-section (1) of Section 3 of the 1986 Act – This is evident from the fact that while enacting the 1986 Act, Parliament did not simultaneously or at anytime thereafter create any bar for a divorced Muslim woman from claiming maintenance under Section 125 of the CrPC and thereby constrain her to proceed to make a claim only under the provisions of the 1986 Act – Neither is there any bar, express or implied under the 1986 Act, to the effect that a divorced Muslim woman cannot unilaterally seek maintenance under Section 125 of the CrPC – One cannot read Section 3 of the 1986 Act containing the non-obstante clause so as to restrict or diminish the right to maintenance of a divorced Muslim woman under Section 125 of the CrPC and neither is it a substitute for the latter. [Para 28] [Per B.V. Nagarathna, J. (concurring)] Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 – s.125 – Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Divorce) Act, 1986 – s.4: Held: The expression “notwithstanding anything contained in the foregoing provisions of this Act or any other law for the time being in force” in sub-section (1) of Section 4, is indicative of the fact that the Magistrate can for maintenance of a divorced Muslim woman being entitled to maintenance as per the provisions of the said Act – Further, sub-section (1) of Section 4 takes into consideration the period after the iddat period while sub-section (1) of Section 3 deals with a period which is within the iddat period – This Section is akin to Section 125 of the CrPC for a reasonable and fair provision of maintenance to be made.