On these submissions, learned counsel appearing for the State, urged that the appeal lacks merit and is fit to be dismissed. 15. We have given our thoughtful consideration to the submissions advanced at the bar and have carefully perused the s 716 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports rendered by the High Court and the trial Court and analysed the evidence available on record. Consideration of evidence and submissions: - 16. The prosecution case as unfolded, in the evidence of the first informant, Sharan Kaur (PW-5) (the star prosecution witness who herself received an injury in the same incident), is that she along with her two sons Daljit Singh @ Goldy (PW-6) and Gurmit Singh was sleeping in the room on the ground floor of the house, whereas, her husband[Balwinder Singh(deceased)] was sleeping in chaubara, which has no gate. The prosecution tried to canvass that the accused put up a ladder on the wall of the house, climbed into the chaubara with the aid thereof and hit Balwinder Singh(deceased) with a spade, which resulted into grave injuries. The motive for the incident, as is projected in the evidence of Sharan Kaur (PW.5), was that the accused was bearing a jealousy on account of flourishing halwai business of her husband whereas, the business of the accused was not thriving. However, we may state that other than this bald averment made by Sharan Kaur (PW-5) attributing motive for the incident to the accused, no corroborative material was collected by the Investigating Officers to lend credence to this theory of motive. The statement of Sharan Kaur (PW-5) on this aspect is also very vague. There is nothing in her deposition, which can satisfy the Court that merely on account of this so called jealousy, the accused would go to the painstaking length of putting up a ladder against the wall of the house, where Balwinder Singh (deceased) used to reside with his family and then climb up and murder him, that too in the presence of his family members. 17. If the prosecution case is to be accepted, it is apparent that the accused had painstakingly, planned out the murder of Balwinder Singh (deceased), inasmuch as they put up a ladder against the outer wall of the house, climbed into the house by using the said ladder and attacked the deceased by spade. Thus, the moment Balwinder Singh (deceased) had been belaboured, the purpose of the accused was served and hence, there was no rhyme or reason as to why the accused would take the risk of being exposed to the other family members. This precisely is the story portrayed in the evidence of Sharan Kaur (PW-5) who stated that while she was sleeping in the room on the ground floor with her two sons, she heard some noise [2024] 4 S.C.R. 717 Kirpal Singh v. State of Punjab and opened the door of the flight of stairs connecting the chaubara and saw the accused appellant-Kirpal Singh and his companion standing therein.