26, the High Court found that Nuney Tayang had failed to lead any evidence in proof of this statement and, as such, there was no material to hold that Dr. Mohesh Chai’s mother was even his dependent. On that basis, the High Court held that no could be pronounced against Dr. Mohesh Chai, solely on the basis of the pleadings and allegations made by Nuney Tayang in his election petition. In consequence, Nuney Tayang was held disentitled to relief by way of a declaration that he had been duly elected from 44 Tezu (ST) Assembly Constituency. 16. It is well-settled that the success of a winning candidate at an election should not be lightly interfered with (See Santosh Yadav vs. Narender Singh2 and Harsh Kumar vs. Bhagwan Sahai Rawat and others3). The issue before us presently is as to the validity of the High Court’s findings that the grounds under Sections 100(1)(b), 100(1)(d)(i) and 100(1)(d)(iv) of the Act of 1951 were established, warranting invalidation of the election of Karikho Kri. Further, the finding of the High Court on Issue No. 6, that Karikho Kri committed a ‘corrupt practice’ within the meaning of Section 123(2) of the Act of 1951 also requires to be examined. 17. Section 33 of the Act of 1951 deals with ‘presentation of nomination papers and the requirements for a valid nomination’. Scrutiny of such nominations is undertaken by the Returning Officers under Section 36 of the Act of 1951. To the extent relevant, Section 36 reads as under: 2 [2001] Supp. 4 SCR 545 : (2002) 1 SCC 160 3 (2003) 7 SCC 709 406 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports ‘36. Scrutiny of nomination:- ‘1. On the date fixed for the scrutiny of nominations under section 30, the candidates, their election agents, one proposer of each candidate, and one other person duly authorised in writing by each candidate but no other person, may attend at such time and place as the returning officer may appoint; and the returning officer shall give them all reasonable facilities for examining the nomination papers of all candidates which have been delivered within the time and in the manner laid down in section 33. 2. The returning officer shall then examine the nomination papers and shall decide all objections which may be made to any nomination and may, either on such objection or on his own motion, after such summary inquiry, if any, as he thinks necessary, reject any nomination on any of the following grounds:— (a) ….. or (b) ….. or (c) ….. 3 .….. 4. The returning officer shall not reject any nomination paper on the ground of any defect which is not of a substantial character. 5. ….. 6 The returning officer shall endorse on each nomination paper his decision accepting or rejecting the same and, if the nomination paper is rejected, shall record in writing a brief statement of his reasons for such rejection. 7. ….. 8. Immediately after all the nomination papers have been scrutinized and decisions accepting or rejecting the same have been recorded, the returning officer shall prepare a list of validly nominated candidates, that is to say, candidates whose nominations have been found valid, and affix it to his notice board.