P12 FIR and Ext. D3, which is her previous statement made to police, that she had not stated anything about such an oral dying declaration made by her deceased son. The High Court also took note of the fact that neither PW5 nor PW9 had spoken about any such oral dying declaration made by the deceased brother to their mother- PW8. Add to it, the oral testimony of PW8 would reveal that while being examined-in-chief she deposed what Haseen Khan (PW5) and Fareed Khan (PW9) divulged to her. She would depose: “When my sons Fareed Khan and Haseen Khan told me at home that accused persons have killed Naseem Khan then I reached the place of incident.” (underline supplied) 21. In this context, it is also relevant to refer to her oral evidence while being cross-examined. She deposed thus on being cross-examined: - “It is incorrect to say that Fareed and Haseen did not tell me that accused persons have killed Naseem." 22. The oral testimony of PW-8 would further go to show that with respect to the attack allegedly done by the three accused persons viz., the respondents herein on her deceased son Naseem Khan, her evidence is nothing but ‘hearsay evidence’ as according to her she was told about their attack on Naseem Khan only by her sons, PW-5 and PW-9 and there is no case for the prosecution that she had witnessed the respondents herein attacking Naseem Khan. 23. A scanning of the oral testimony of PW-8 would show that on many other materials points the defence could brought out, upon confronting her with Ext.P12-FIR, Ext.D3-previous statement, various serious omissions. About her statement in Court that PW-5 and PW-9 went along with deceased Naseem Khan on 01.10.1996 for taking bath nothing was seen recorded in Ext.D3. As noted earlier, as to the alleged oral dying declaration made to her by the deceased from the place of occurrence after sustaining injuries nothing was recorded in Ext.P12-FIR as also in Ext.D3. Though she deposed that upon seeing her Ramjan, Musaf Khan and Habib Khan ran away from the place of occurrence this fact was not recorded in Ext.D3. So also, [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1885 The State of Madhya Pradesh v. Ramjan Khan & Ors. about the attack by the accused persons on deceased Naseem Khan though she deposed that PW-5 and PW-9 told her and in turn she told such facts to police they were not recorded in Ext.D3. She would depose that she got no enmity with the family of accused persons and got no dispute in respect of land. In view of the aforementioned aspects revealed from the testimony of PW-8 which were not given due weight by the trial Court while considering whether PW-8 is reliable or not, we are of the considered view that the High Court had rightly given due consideration to all such aspects and ultimately discredited her testimony. 24. Before considering the oral testimonies of the witnesses claimed by the prosecution as eye witnesses, it is to be noted that with respect to the nature of death of Naseem Khan there is actually no cleavage in the findings of the trial Court and the High Court.