17. Chapter XI of the Service Rules deals with conduct, discipline and appeal. Chapter XI comprises of Rule 50 to Rule 70. 17.1. Section 2 of Chapter XI deals with discipline and appeal. Rule 67, which is part of Section 2, provides for various categories of minor and major penalties which may be imposed on an officer for an act of misconduct or for any other good and sufficient reason to be recorded in writing. 17.2. The heading of Rule 68 which is also part of Chapter XI is decision to initiate and procedure for disciplinary action. Rule 68(1) says that the disciplinary authority either by itself or on a direction of the superior authority may institute disciplinary proceeding against an officer. The disciplinary authority or any authority higher than it may impose any of the penalties mentioned in Rule 67 on such an officer. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 813 State Bank of India & Ors. v. Navin Kumar Sinha 17.3. As per Rule 68(2), no imposing any of the major penalties shall be made except after an inquiry held in accordance with Rule 68(2). Clause (iii) of sub-Rule (2) of Rule 68 says that where it is proposed to hold an inquiry, the disciplinary authority shall frame definite and distinct charges on the basis of the allegations against the officer and the articles of charge(s) together with the statement of allegations on which those are based, list of documents and witnesses relied on, copies of relied upon documents to the extent possible and the statement of witnesses shall be communicated in writing to the officer who shall be required to submit within such time as may be specified by the disciplinary authority, a written statement of his defence. 17.4. Thereafter, the procedure for conducting inquiry is laid down. 17.5. Rule 69 provides for appeal and review. As per sub-Rule (1), an officer may appeal to the appellate authority against an imposing upon him any of the penalties specified in Rule 67 or against an of suspension. The procedural part of such an appeal is provided in sub-Rule (2). 17.6. Rule 69(3) deals with review. Clause (i) thereof, which starts with a non-obstante clause, says that notwithstanding anything contained in Section 2, the reviewing authority may call for the record of the case within six months of the date of the final and after reviewing the case, pass such (s) thereon as it may deem fit. 18. In Union of India Vs. K.V. Jankiraman,4 this Court was examining the impact of sealed cover procedure on an employee due for promotion, increment etc. In that case, the employees were eligible for promotion but because of pending disciplinary proceeding, were subjected to sealed cover procedure. It was in that context that this Court considered amongst others the question as to what is the date from which it can be said that a disciplinary proceeding is pending against an employee. After due analysis, this Court held that it is only when a charge memo is issued to the employee that it can 4 [1991] 3 SCR 790 : (1991) 4 SCC 109 814 [2024] 11 S.C.R.