83 Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation & Ors. v. V.V. Brahma Reddy & Anr. upon between the Governments of the successor States or, in default of such agreement, as may be determined by the Central Government: Provided that the Central Government shall have the power to review any of its s issued under this section. *** Section 82. Provision for employees of Public Sector Undertakings, etc.—On and from the appointed day, the employees of State Public Sector Undertakings, corporations and other autonomous bodies shall continue to function in such undertaking, corporation or autonomous bodies for a period of one year and during this period the corporate body concerned shall determine the modalities for distributing the personnel between the two successor States.” (emphasis supplied) 11. From the text of these provisions, it is evident that Section 77 applies to state government employees. Section 82 clearly states that the Corporations shall determine the modalities for distributing their employees between the successor states. Pursuant to this, the Board prepared the Agenda Note dated 16.08.2017 that sets out the allocation of various kinds of employees between APSRTC and TSRTC. Upon going through the Agenda Note, we find that the Board has decided that Class III and Class IV employees, who are appointed at the regional level, are to be allocated to the Corporation in which the region falls after bifurcation. We are extracting the relevant portion here: “Regional Level Recruitments: The Class III and IV cadres like Drivers, Conductors, Mechanics, Artisans, etc., are recruited at Regional Level i.e., Revenue District wise. There are 12 regions in 13 revenue districts of residual AP state since Srikakulam and Vizianagaram districts are considered as North East Coast Region. There were 10 districts in Telangana area prior to the appointed day i.e., on 02.06.2014. the seniority of these posts is also maintained at Regional level. The presidential of making recruitment in the ratio of 80% of the posts to local 84 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports district candidates and 20% to non (illegible) candidates is followed in such recruitments. Since the recruitments and seniority levels are at regional level, the distribution of these employees between two entities i.e., in 67,868 posts in residual APSRTC and 61,864 to TSRTC should not be an issue as they were recruited at Regional level (local cadre) and belong to the respective successor state/corporation in which the region falls after bifurcation irrespective of their place of birth or domicile or schooling etc.” (emphasis supplied) 12. There is no dispute about the fact that the respondents were recruited at the regional level and belong to the successor state Corporation in which the region falls. 13. In this view of the matter, following the statutory mandate of Section 82 read with the Agenda Note dated 16.08.2017, the respondents will continue their employment in the same region, which is under the present TSRTC. 14. The High Court has incorrectly relied on Section 77 of the Act and has in fact failed to notice Section 82 and the follow-up action taken thereunder.