In the alternative, it was prayed that the Bank may be directed to not take any further steps in confirming the sale to the petitioner till the S.A. No. 46 of 2022 is decided by the DRT. Thus, in essence, the prayer of the Borrower before the High Court was two-fold: - (i) Prayer (a) / Para 11(a) of the writ petition: Either to seize the issues arising in the S.A. No. 46 of 2022 before the DRT for itself and decide the same in favour of the Borrower and consequentially permit it to redeem the mortgage of the Secured Asset or; (ii) Prayer (b) & (c) / Para 11(b) (c) of the writ petition: Alternatively, stay the confirmation of the sale under the 9th auction by the Bank till the S.A. No. 46 of 2022 is decided by the DRT along with a further direction that the Borrower be given the liberty to tender the remaining amount and redeem the mortgage i.e., prayers 11(c) and 11(b) respectively. At the cost of repetition, the relevant prayers sought by the Borrower in the writ petition before the High Court are reproduced hereunder: - “11. THE PETITIONERS, THEREFORE, PRAY: (a) That this Hon’ble Court be pleased to issue Writ of Certiorari or Writ in the nature of Certiorari or any 1666 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports other appropriate Writ, calling upon the papers and proceedings of the Securitization Application No. 46 of 2022 pending before the Hon’ble DRT I, Mumbai and after examining the legality, validity and propriety thereof, be pleased to allow the Petitioners to redeem the mortgage as per schedule provided in the Interim Application No. 2339 of 2023 filed before the Hon DRT I, Mumbai or within such reasonable period as this Hon’ble Court may deem fit and proper; (b) That this Hon’ble Court be pleased to direct the Respondent to issue “No Dues Certificate” and release All piece and parcel of leasehold land to the extent of 16200 sq. mtrs various buildings and ancillary structures at amalgamated plot no. D-105, D-110 and D-111, Trans Thane Creek Industrial Area, MIDC, Village Shirwane, Thane- Belapur Road, Navi Mumbai, Dist- Thane, Maharashtra, 400706, after getting the entire redemption amount; (c) In the alternate, that this Hon’ble Court be pleased to direct the Respondent not to take any further steps for issuance of the sale Certificate by confirming the sale until the hearing and final disposal of the Securitization Application No. 46 of 2022 pending before the Hon’ble DRT I, Mumbai;” (Emphasis supplied) 114. What can be discerned from the above is that the initial stance of the Borrower before the High Court was that its right of redemption was wholly dependent upon the adjudication of S.A No. 46 of 2022. In such circumstances, it had prayed before the High Court to either decide the said securitization application itself and thereupon permit the redemption of mortgage or otherwise to stay the auction proceedings till the same was decided by the DRT.