1539 M/s Bharti Airtel Ltd. v. The Commissioner of Central Excise, Pune (d) an amount under sub-rule (2) of rule 16 of Central excise Rules, 2002; or (e) service tax on any output service: …………………………………………… ……………………………………………” Rule 4 “Condition for allowing CENVAT credit. 4. (1) The CENVAT credit in respect of inputs may be taken immediately on receipt of the inputs in the factory of the manufacturer or in the premises of the provider of output service: Provided that…………….” 8. Since the Bombay High Court’s decision was rendered on an earlier date i.e. on 26.08.2014, and the Delhi High Court rendered its decision subsequently on 31.10.2018, we will first deal with the decision of the Bombay High Court. 8.1 Shorn of unnecessary details, we will refer only to the relevant facts by referring to the lead case of each of the High Courts as the decisions arrived on examining these lead cases would cover other appeals before us. Decision of the Bombay High Court 9. The proceeding in the lead case of Bharti Airtel (supra) was set into motion by a show cause notice dated 25.04.2006 issued by the Commissioner of Excise to M/s. Bharti Airtel Limited, an MSP (Assessee) alleging inter alia, that the Assessee had wrongly taken and utilised CENVAT Credit on certain goods which do not qualify as “capital goods” within the meaning of CENVAT Credit Rules, 2004 and thus, availing such credit was contrary to the definition under Rule 2(a)(A) and Rule 4 of the CENVAT Rules. The goods mentioned in the said show cause notice include amongst others: (i) towers and parts of towers; (ii) prefabricated building (PFB) used as a shelter for protecting transmission devices which are the primary concern of these proceedings. 1540 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 9.1 In the said show cause notice, it was alleged that a tower, after erection, becomes immovable property having been fixed to the earth and thus, cannot be considered to be a “good” and hence was not “capital good” within the meaning of the CENVAT Rules. It was alleged that the tower even in CKD or SKD condition would fall under Chapter 7308 of the Central Excise Tariff Act, 1985 which does not find mention either in clause (i) or clause (ii) of Rule 2(a)(A) or in Rule 2(k) of the CENVAT Rules. It was also alleged that tower or parts of the tower cannot be claimed for CENVAT Credit as these are not components, spares or accessories of “capital goods” as specified in sub-clauses (i) and (ii) of Rule 2(a)(A) within the meaning of Rule 2(a)(A)(iii). Consequently, the Revenue sought not only the recovery of wrongfully claimed CENVAT credit but also imposed penalty and interests on account of misstatement of ineligible claim. 9.2 As regards prefabricated buildings (PFBs), it was alleged that these are used as shelter for protecting transmission devices etc. and not for providing output service i.e. telecommunication service and hence, cannot be considered “capital goods” within the meaning of Rule 2(a)(A).