The plan thus provides for adequate securities to ensure the payment hence the adjustment of Performance Bank Guarantee in the first tranche of payment cannot be said to be against the Resolution Plan. We thus are of the view that prayer made by the Applicant in the Application in Prayer (a) is to be allowed.” (emphasis supplied) [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2127 State Bank of India & Ors. v. The Consortium of Mr. Murari Lal Jalan and Mr. Florian Fritsch & Anr. 109. A bare perusal of the above observations would indicate that the NCLAT proceeded on an incorrect understanding of Regulation 36B(4A) and its First Explanation. Regulation 36B(4A) does not state that if the Resolution Applicant, after approval, fails to implement the PBG, then it shall stand forfeited. Instead, what the Regulation actually states is that the performance security shall stand forfeited, if the resolution applicant of such a plan, after its approval by the Adjudicating Authority, “fails to implement or contributes to the failure of implementation of that plan in accordance with the terms of the plan and its implementation schedule”. It is not the failure to implement the performance security i.e., the PBG, that is dealt with in this Regulation but the consequence of the failure to implement “the Plan” by the SRA. 110. Further the dated 28.08.2023 proceeds to interpret Explanation I to Regulation 36B(4A) and states that since according to Explanation I, the performance security can be of a particular duration, the Resolution Plan can provide for the release of security at the time of the first tranche payment of Rs. 350 Crore and no exception can be taken to the adjustment of the PBG. However, what the NCLAT failed to take notice of is that under Explanation I to Regulation 36B(4A), the performance security shall mean security of such nature, value, duration and source, as may be specified “in the request for resolution plans”. The duration of the performance security that has been specified in the RFRP is given under Clauses 3.13.2 and 3.13.8 of the RFRP which categorically states that the PBG shall be kept alive until the Resolution Plan has been completely implemented. This is the duration which is referred to in Explanation I to Regulation 36B(4A). 111. Now, if the intention under the RFRP, the Resolution Plan (under Clauses 7.3 and 9.4) and Regulation 36B(4A) was that the PBG had to be kept alive till the completion of implementation of the Resolution Plan by the SRA and that it cannot be set-off against any payment obligation, then how do we reconcile such an intention with the expression “PBG adjusted” mentioned under Clause 6.4.4 of the Resolution Plan? As mentioned above, Clauses 7.3 and 9.4 respectively of the Resolution Plan incorporated the terms of the RFRP into the Resolution Plan. Clause 3.13.9 of the RFRP states that the PBG shall not be set off against any payment or consideration which is to be made by the SRA, even if expressly provided so under the Resolution Plan.