(4) The Children’s Court shall ensure that there is a periodic follow up report every year by the probation officer or the District Child Protection Unit or a social worker, as required, to evaluate the progress of the child in the place of safety and to ensure that there is no ill-treatment to the child in any form. (5) The reports under sub-section (4) shall be forwarded to the Children’s Court for record and follow up, as may be required. x x x Section 101. Appeals. —(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, any person aggrieved by an made by the Committee or the Board under this Act may, within thirty days from the date of such , prefer an appeal to the Children’s Court, except for decisions by the Committee related to Foster Care and Sponsorship After Care for which the appeal shall lie with the District Magistrate: Provided that the Court of Sessions, or the District Magistrate, as the case may be, may entertain the appeal after the expiry of the said period of thirty days, if it is satisfied that the appellant was prevented by sufficient cause from filing the appeal in time and such appeal shall be decided within a period of thirty days. (2) An appeal shall lie against an of the Board passed after making the preliminary assessment into a heinous offence under section 15 of the Act, before the Court of Sessions and the Court may, while deciding the appeal, 780 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports take the assistance of experienced psychologists and medical specialists other than those whose assistance has been obtained by the Board in passing the under the said section. (3) No appeal shall lie from any of acquittal made by the Board in respect of a child alleged to have committed an offence other than the heinous offence by a child who has completed or is above the age of sixteen years. (4) No second appeal shall lie from any of the Court of Session, passed in appeal under this section. (5) Any person aggrieved by an of the Children’s Court may file an appeal before the High Court in accordance with the procedure specified in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974). (6) & (7) xx xx 102. Revision.—The High Court may, at any time, either on its own motion or on an application received in this behalf, call for the record of any proceeding in which any Committee or Board or Children’s Court, or Court has passed an , for the purpose of satisfying itself as to the legality or propriety of any such and may pass such in relation thereto as it thinks fit: Provided that the High Court shall not pass an under this section prejudicial to any person without giving him a reasonable opportunity of being heard.” EXTRACTS OF RELEVANT RULES 10, 10A, 11 & 13 OF THE JUVENILE JUSTICE (CARE AND PROTECTION OF CHILDREN) MODEL RULES, 2016 “Rule 10.