Relying upon various decisions of this Court, they submitted that the impugned having been passed by the High Court exercising its discretion, could neither be said to be illegal nor unjust. 8. It is trite to say that the consideration applicable for cancellation of bail and consideration for challenging the on the grant of bail on the ground of arbitrary exercise of discretion are different. 2 [2019] 5 SCR 1060 : (2019) 5 SCC 1 1018 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports While considering the application for cancellation of bail, the Court ordinarily looks for some supervening circumstances like tampering of evidence either during the investigation or during the trial, threatening of witness, accused likely to abscond and the trial getting delayed on that account etc. whereas in an challenging the grant of bail on the ground that it has been granted illegally, the consideration would be whether there was improper or arbitrary exercise of discretion in the grant of bail or the findings recorded were perverse. The instant appeals have been filed by the appellant challenging the impugned passed by the High Court granting bail to the respondents- accused on the ground that not only the High Court has arbitrarily exercised the discretion in favour of the respondents, but also has recorded perverse findings while exercising such discretion. 9. Before we appreciate the rival contentions raised by the learned counsel for the parties, it would be apt to refer to some of the provisions of the UAPA particularly with regard to the offences alleged against the respondents. As per the chargesheet, the offences alleged against the respondents are under Section 120B, 153A, 153AA of IPC and Section 13, 17, 18, 18A,18B, 38 and 39 of UAPA. So far as the offences under the UAPA are concerned, Section 13 pertains to the punishment for unlawful activities, Section 15 defines what is “terrorist act” and Section 16 prescribes punishment for the commission of the terrorist act. Section 17 pertains to the punishment for raising funds for terrorist act, Section 18 pertains to the punishment for conspiracy, etc. Section 18A pertains to the punishment for organizing terrorist camps and Section 18B pertains to the punishment for recruiting of person or persons for terrorist act. All these offences fall under Chapter IV of the Act. However, Section 38 which pertains to the offence relating to membership of a terrorist organization and Section 39 which pertains to the offence relating to support given to terrorist organization, fall under Chapter VI of the said Act. Section 43D which was inserted by Act 35 of 2008, pertains to the modified application of certain provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Sub-section (5) of Section 43D being relevant for the purpose of these appeals, the same is reproduced hereunder: “43D. Modified application of certain provisions of the Code (1) to (4)…… [2024] 5 S.C.R. 1019 Union of India Rep. by The Inspector of Police National Investigation Agency Chennai Branch v. Barakathullah etc. (5) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code, no person accused of an offence punishable under Chapters IV and VI of this Act shall, if in custody, be released on bail or on his own bond unless the Public Prosecutor has been given an opportunity of being heard on the application for such release: Provided that such accused person shall not be released on bail or on his own bond if the Court, on a perusal of the case diary or the report made under section 173 of the Code is of the opinion that there are reasonable grounds for believing that the accusation against such person is prima facie true….” 10.