The appeals preferred against the said before the respondent No.2 and thereafter, respondent No.1, also, ended in dismissal, vide s dated 29.08.2017 and 14.09.2017 respectively. 3.6. In the meanwhile, the appellant approached the Central Administrative Tribunal by filing O.A.No.310/00417/2017 against the dated 22.09.2016 passed by the respondent No.7, cancelling her selection to the post of UDC, and obtained an interim that the respondent Nos.6 and 7 shall keep one post of UDC vacant. Thereafter, the appellant filed WP. No.15865 of 2022 for the relief as stated in paragraph 2 supra. 3.7. Upon considering the facts and circumstances of the case and relying on the decision of this Court in Soosai v. Union of India and others,4 the High Court dismissed the writ petition. Feeling aggrieved, the appellant is before us with the present appeal. 4. The principal contention of the learned counsel for the appellant is that the appellant professes the Hindu religion and she belongs to Valluvan caste, which falls within the ambit of the S.C. , 1964, and hence, she is entitled to get concession under the Adi Dravida quota. Continuing further, the learned counsel submitted that right from birth, the appellant is having affinity in professing Hinduism and has been going to Hindu temples and offering worship to Hindu deities; through various documents, the appellant was able to prove that she was born to a Hindu father and a Christian mother, who also, after marriage, started to profess the Hindu religion; her grandparents and great grandparents belonged to Valluvan caste; and her grandmother Sivabakkiyam was buried at the burial ground belonging to the Valluvan community; throughout her educational career, the appellant was treated as belonging to Scheduled Caste 4 [1985] Supp. 3 SCR 242 : 1986 AIR 733 1510 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports community and the transfer certificates also affirmed her communal status as such; and the appellant’s father, appellant and her brother possessed the Scheduled Caste community certificates issued by the authority concerned. Without properly appreciating the same, the respondent authorities erred in rejecting the appellant’s application seeking issuance of Scheduled Caste community certificate, on the premise that she did not fulfill the basic criteria for the same, and the said decision was also affirmed by the High Court. It is also contended that the entry made in the Register of Baptism dated 20.11.2015 itself shows that the appellant was born on 22.11.1990 and her baptism had taken place on 06.01.1991, when she was 3 months old and therefore, the same cannot be a ground to deny the issuance of Scheduled Caste community certificate to her. 4.1. It is further submitted by the learned counsel for the appellant that caste is assigned inherently at birth and does not cease to operate upon conversion of religion. Rather, it is eclipsed and can be regained upon reconversion, provided the caste / community is accepting the reconverted individual. The rationale behind the same can be understood as if the primary motive for conversion is upward social mobility which however does not operate in such a linear manner, rather the caste along with its socio-economic disparities continues to operate in the individual’s life and therefore, denying the caste upon reconversion would not be right to set in law.