Deceased’s father, who is the informant, has also stated that around twelve months prior to her death, the appellants had sold the deceased’s streedhan and had tortured her when she demanded them back. The same has also been stated by her relatives who have been examined by the Investigating Officer during investigation. 13. The appellants’ argument that the deceased had not made a single complaint for cruelty or harassment against the appellants in the twelve years of marriage cannot be sustained. Merely because she did not file any complaint for twelve years does not guarantee that there was no instance of cruelty or harassment. 14. Further, the argument that ingredients of section 498A, IPC are not made as the allegations made therein are general and vague, also does not strengthen the case of the appellants as the allegations, with specific, instances stated by the informant and other witnesses prima facie constitute a case for offence under section 498-A, IPC. From a perusal of the FIR, findings of the Investigating Officer in the chargesheet as well as the statements of the deceased’s cousins recorded during investigation prima facie indicate that the deceased was subjected to physical as well as mental cruelty by her husband and the in-laws. There is also the specific instance related to the alleged selling of the gold ornaments and subsequent cruelty upon the demand for return made by the deceased. A preliminary analysis, as required during the stage of charge-framing, points towards the probable commission of the offence of cruelty as provided under section 498-A, IPC. 15. Hence, the appellants cannot be discharged for offence under section 498-A, IPC and should be charged with and tried for the same. 16. Section 306 of the IPC provides for punishment for the offence of abetment of suicide. It has to be read with Section 107 of the IPC which defines the act of ‘abetment’. The provisions read as follows: “306. Abetment of suicide.—If any person commits suicide, whoever abets the commission of such suicide, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine.” [2024] 12 S.C.R. 447 Jayedeepsinh Pravinsinh Chavda & Ors. v. State of Gujarat “107. Abetment of a thing.—A person abets the doing of a thing, who— First.—Instigates any person to do that thing; or Secondly.—Engages with one or more other person or persons in any conspiracy for the doing of that thing, if an act or illegal omission takes place in pursuance of that conspiracy, and in to the doing of that thing; or Thirdly.—Intentionally aids, by any act or illegal omission, the doing of that thing. Explanation 1.—A person who by wilful misrepresentation, or by wilful concealment of a material fact which he is bound to disclose, voluntarily causes or procures, or attempts to cause or procure, a thing to be done, is said to instigate the doing of that thing. Explanation 2.— Whoever, either prior to or at the time of the commission of an act, does anything in to facilitate the commission of that act, and thereby facilitate the commission thereof, is said to aid the doing of that act.” 17.