6 Hereinafter ‘Discipline Rules’ [2024] 8 S.C.R. 13 Union of India & Ors. Etc. v. Prohlad Guha Etc. 4. Having perused the record, the question that arises for our consideration is that whether the dismissal from service handed down to the respondent- employees is legally sustainable or not. 5. The undisputed position is that ever since the suspension s were issued qua the respondent-employees, they have not rendered any service to the appellant-employer. It is further not in dispute that the original of termination was not stayed either by the High Court or this Court. The impugned was stayed by this Court vide dated 29th July 2013 which has been extended at regular intervals. 6. Prior to delving into analysis, certain well-established principles may be recalled putting the controversy in question, in context - 6.1 The principles of natural justice, the violation of which is alleged, have been noticed as essential, in Biecco Lawrie Ltd. v. State of W.B.7 in the following terms:- “24. It is fundamental to fair procedure that both sides should be heard—audi alteram partem i.e. hear the other side and it is often considered that it is broad enough to include the rule against bias since a fair hearing must be an unbiased hearing. One of the essential ingredients of fair hearing is that a person should be served with a proper notice i.e. a person has a right to notice. Notice should be clear and precise so as to give the other party adequate information of the case he has to meet and make an effective defence. Denial of notice and opportunity to respond result in making the administrative decision as vitiated.” 6.2 The principle of compassionate appointment has been stated by this Court in Central Coalfields Ltd. v. Parden Oraon,8 as follows- “8. The whole object of granting compassionate appointment is to enable the family to tide over the sudden crisis which arises due to the death of the sole breadwinner. The mere death of an employee in harness does not entitle his family to such source of livelihood. The authority 7 [2009] 11 SCR 972 : (2009) 10 SCC 32 8 (2021) 16 SCC 384 14 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports concerned has to examine the financial condition of the family of the deceased, and it is only if it is satisfied that but for the provision of employment, the family will not be able to meet the crisis that the job is offered to the eligible member of the family [Umesh Kumar Nagpal v. State of Haryana, (1994) 4 SCC 138 : 1994 SCC (L&S) 930] . It was further asseverated in the said that compassionate employment cannot be granted after a lapse of reasonable period as the consideration of such employment is not a vested right which can be exercised at any time in the future. It was further held that the object of compassionate appointment is to enable the family to get over the financial crisis that it faces at the time of the death of sole breadwinner, compassionate appointment cannot be claimed or offered after a significant lapse of time and after the crisis is over.” 6.3 The relationship of ‘compassionate appointment’ with constitutional principles has been discussed in SAIL v. Madhusudan Das,9 wherein it was held that “15.