We are in agreement with the view taken by this Court in R. Dinesh Kumar alias Deena (supra). However, the facts of the present case compel us to consider the matter in a different perspective as to when apart from his own statement made by a witness, he is still protected under the proviso of Section 132 of the Act when there is other material against him for summoning as an accused. In R. Dinesh Kumar alias Deena (supra) a witness examined as PW-64 during trial was sought to be summoned by moving an application under Section 319 Cr.P.C. The Trial Court dismissed the application, and the High Court affirmed the dismissal . The High Court, in the said case, observed in para 64 that PW-64 cannot be prosecuted by summoning him as an additional accused under Section 319 Cr.P.C. on the basis of his evidence in the Sessions Case. However, the High Court held that PW-64 could be separately prosecuted for an offence under Section 120B 9 ILR 3 Mad 271 370 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of the Indian Penal Code, 186010 read with Section 302 of IPC if independent evidence other than the statement under Section 164 Cr.P.C. of PW-64 and his evidence in Sessions Case are available to prosecute him along with other accused. 17. This Court in R. Dinesh Kumar alias Deena (supra) refused to consider the issue as to whether a witness protected under the proviso of Section 132 of the Act could be separately prosecuted if independent evidence is also available by observing thus in paras 7 & 52: “7. In our opinion, the second conclusion recorded by the High Court contained in para 64 extracted above, is really uncalled for in the context of the issue before the High Court. The question before the High Court was whether the Sessions Court was justified in declining to summon PW 64 in exercise of its authority under Section 319 of the Cr.P.C. as an additional accused in Sessions Case No. 73 of 2009. We, therefore, will examine only the question whether on the facts mentioned earlier the Sessions Court is obliged to summon PW 64 as an additional accused exercising the power under Section 319 of the Cr.P.C. 52. In the light of the above two decisions, the proposition whether the prosecution has a liberty to examine any person as a witness in a criminal prosecution notwithstanding that there is some material available to the prosecuting agency to indicate that such a person is also involved in the commission of the crime for which the other accused are being tried, requires a deeper examination.” 18. In other words, if the privilege made available to a witness under the proviso to Section 132 of the Act is interpreted as a complete immunity, notwithstanding availability of other evidence, it is capable of abuse. In a particular case, a dishonest Investigating officer could cite a person as a witness in the report under Section 173 of the Cr.P.C, being fully aware that there is incriminating material against such person.