What can be culled out from the above discussion is that administration means carrying out all the functions, which are essential for functioning of an institute. Even if some regulatory interference by the State does exist, it cannot be said that the community is not administering the institute merely because there is some superficial interference in the working of the institution by the State. Only when the State enjoys a deep and pervasive control over the functioning of an institution, it can be said that the State is administering the institution. 95. However, to substantiate the argument that a certain community has been administering an institute, it has to be illustrated that the overall governance of the institute is under the control of the community. Administration vis-à-vis a university consists of making decisions with regard to hiring of faculty, admitting and subjecting students to take lessons and examinations, fee structures, disciplinary proceedings for the teaching and non-teaching staff and other miscellaneous day-to-day operations which are needed to keep the university operating optimally. 1898 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 96. The test which needs to be satisfied in to establish that a university is administered by a minority community is the test of ultimate control. 97. The administrative functions of AMU are broadly carried out by five bodies: a) Visitor (erstwhile Lord Rector); b) Visiting Board; c) Executive Council; d) Academic Council; and e) Court of AMU. 98. AMU Act, as it stood in 1920, prior to the amendments, did not provide for a mechanism for Muslims to administer the University. Section 13 of the AMU Act provided for the Governor General of British India to be the Lord Rector (now Visitor). The Lord Rector had been bestowed with the ultimate control and superintendence of the University. Section 14 provided for the Visiting Board, which was responsible for ensuring that the University is functioning in accordance with the act, ordinances, and rules. The composition of the Visiting Board did not reflect any special dispensation being made for Muslim control over the board. 99. There have been extensive submissions on the nature of the Court of AMU, and much reliance has been placed by the appellants on section 23(2) of the AMU Act. According to the appellants, the Court of AMU is the supreme governing body of the university. At first blush, this submission by the appellants seems reasonable; however, on closer examination of the statute, this submission cannot be accepted. Section 23(2) gives only residuary powers to the Court of AMU over matters not explicitly provided for in the AMU Act and rules of the University. If sections 13 and 23 are read jointly, the clear picture which emerges is that the Court of AMU is subservient to the Lord Rector; as the Lord Rector had been given the power to overrule the Court of AMU under section 13(5) of the Act. 100. Deep involvement of the State is demonstrated through the Governor- General/Governor in all major activities of the University, such as establishing colleges, promulgating ordinances, and superintendence over the Executive and the Academic Councils.