A bare perusal of Section 10 and 11 clearly brings forth a plain distinction in the nature of right conferred and liabilities accrued between sub-section(1) and (2) of Section 10, as also between sub-section (1) and (2) of Section 11. Further, Section 10(1) clearly provides that when the said provision is applied, the land or rights in or over the land shall vest absolutely in the Central Government free from all encumbrances. The words “free from all encumbrances” become of vital importance as it clarifies that from such point onwards, the Central Government becomes the absolute owner and has sole rights and claim over the land. However, when the State Government has already granted rights to any person under any mining lease and the Central Government subsequently acquires such landunder Section 10(2), then the rights acquired by the Central Government are limited to the capacity of a deemed lessee of the State Government. Therefore, the rights conferred under sub-section (2) of Section 10 are limited in nature as compared to sub-section (1) and such a distinction must be appreciated when determining the nature of acquisition by the Central Government. It must be noted that such a contrast in rights under Section 10(1) and (2) is rooted solely in the fact if the rights under any mining lease are granted to any person at the time of acquisition by the Central Government or not. The Central Government shall acquire the character of a deemed lessee of the State Government only if a mining lease granted by the State Government in favour of any person existed already before the Central Government acquired the land and rights over it. 12. Similarly, Section 11 which talks about the power of Central Government to direct vesting of land or rights in a Government Company draws an identical distinction between its two sub- sections. Section 11(1) specifically provides that, notwithstanding anything contained in Section 10, upon the satisfaction of the Central Government, the land or the rights in or over the land shall, instead of vesting in the Central Government under Section 10, vest in the Government Company from the specified date onwards. This means that sub-section (1) of Section 11 blanketly vests the land or rights in or over the land in the Government Company, as it vested in the 1928 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Central Government, without any further stipulations. The nature of right that passes onto the Government Company shall be exactly identical to the right that existed with the Central Government itself. However, the language of sub-section (2) of Section 11 is direct and absolutely unclouded when it specifically talks about the situation “where any rights under any mining lease acquired under this Act vest in a Government company” and on the fulfilment of such pre- requisite alone, the Government Company shall become a deemed lessee of the State Government as if the State Government had granted a mining lease in the favour of that Government Company under the Mineral Concession Rules.