The same is well reflected in the decisions of this Court across the last couple of decades. Accordingly, the key provisions to be contemplated for the purpose of appraising the present factual matrix are Sections 41, 42, and 67 of the NDPS Act 1985. The same are thereby analysed herein after. 26. Having heard the learned Counsels for both the parties, we deem it appropriate to refer to the jurisprudence of Section 6 of the IEA 1872. It is to be observed that it deals with relevancy of facts forming part of same transaction and therefore, it is crucial to refer the bare provision which reads as follows: [2024] 4 S.C.R. 459 Smt. Najmunisha v. The State of Gujarat “6. Relevancy of facts forming part of same transaction.––Facts which, though not in issue, are so connected with a fact in issue as to form part of the same transaction, are relevant, whether they occurred at the same time and place or at different times and places.” 27. This court has laid down the test for “acts forming part of same transaction” in Gentela Vijyvardhan Rao and Anr. v. State of Andhra Pradesh (1996) 6 SCC 241, wherein it has been held that it is based on spontaneity and immediacy of such statement or fact in relation to the fact in issue. Provided that if there was an interval which ought to have been sufficient for purpose of fabrication then the said statement having been recorded, with however slight delay there may be, is not part of res gestae. The same was adopted by a 3-Judges’ Bench in the decision of Dhal Singh Dewangan v. State of Chhattisgarh (2016) SCC OnLine SC 983. 28. In the present factual matrix, having perused the material it appears that the attempt towards raiding/searching the residence of Accused No. 04 was not explicitly in pursuance of detaining the said accused but the testimonies of the members of the raiding party showcase the idea of search of the house to be an afterthought with an admitted time gap of 40-45 minutes between having raided the auto rickshaw which was alleged to be abandoned by the driver and Accused No. 04 and subsequent search of the house of Accused No. 04, wherein Accused No. 01 was present. Moreover, it appears from the record that even the idea to search the house was for the purpose of recovery of more contraband and not to apprehend the said absconded accused at the first instance. Thence, it can be safely concluded that the search conducted at the residence of the Accused No. 04 is not a continuance of action of the raiding party towards the search of the auto rickshaw based on the secret information received by Mrs Chaube. Accordingly, it does not appropriately fulfill the requirements of the test laid down in Gentela Vijyvardhan Rao (supra). 29. Having reached the conclusion that the searches of the abandoned auto rickshaw, and at the house wherein Accused No. 01 was present, to be different transactions, the subsequent consideration is apropos necessary statutory safeguards enlisted in the NDPS Act 1985.