89. In other words, public interest cannot also be conflated with an evaluation of the monetary gain or loss alone.” (Emphasis supplied) 115. What can be discerned from the above is that this Court has consistently underscored that any decision to terminate a contract must be grounded in a real and palpable public interest, duly supported by cogent materials and circumstances in to ensure that State actions are fair, transparent, and accountable. Public interest cannot be used as a pretext to arbitrarily terminate contracts and there must be a clear and demonstrable ramification or detriment on the public interest to justify any such action. 116. Considerations of public interest should not be narrowly confined to financial aspects. The courts must have a more holistic understanding of public interest wherever the fairness of public authorities is in question, giving due regard to the broader implications of such action on the stability of contractual obligations. Merely because the financial terms of a contract are less favourable over a period of time does not justify its termination. Such decisions must be based on a careful consideration of all relevant factors, including the potential harm to the integrity and sanctity of contractual relationships. The larger interest of upholding contracts cannot be discarded in the name of monetary gain labelled as public interest. 117. We may make a reference to the observations made by this Court in Har Shankar & Ors. v. Dy. Excise and Taxation Commr. & Ors. reported in (1975) 1 SCC 737, wherein this Court held that those who contract with open eyes must accept the burdens of contract along with its benefit. It further held that the enforcement of rights and obligations arising out of a contract cannot depend on whether [2024] 7 S.C.R. 605 Subodh Kumar Singh Rathour v. The Chief Executive Officer & Ors. the contracting party finds it prudent to abide by it. The relevant observations read as under: - “16. [...] Those who contract with open eyes must accept the burdens of the contract along with its benefits. The powers of the Financial Commissioner to grant liquor licences by auction and to collect licence fees through the medium of auctions cannot by writ petitions be questioned by those who, had their venture succeeded, would have relied upon those very powers to found a legal claim. Reciprocal rights and obligations arising out of contract do not depend for their enforceability upon whether a contracting party finds it prudent to abide by the terms of the contract. By such a test no contract could ever have a binding force.” (Emphasis supplied) 118. Thus, we are of the view that the respondent’s stance of a mere possibility of fetching higher license fees was no ground to cancel the tender issued to the appellant for the purposes of rectifying it, especially when the respondent completely failed to demonstrate as to how there was a technical fault in the tender or how potential interested bidders did not participate due to it or how fetching higher license fees was more than a mere possibility.