[...]” (Emphasis supplied) 53. In Attorney General for India v. Satish reported in 2021 INSC 762 this Court had the occasion to examine the entire legislative scheme of the POCSO. It held that each provision of the POCSO should be construed viz-a-viz the other provisions of the Act and with reference to the context or background with which the legislation was enacted, so as to make the Act and its provisions more meaningful and effective. This Court further emphasized that, while construing the provisions of the POCSO, the impact of sexual assault and exploitation on the children should not be ignored and further the courts should avoid a narrow or pedantic interpretation that would the defeat the statute; rather, where the intention of the legislature cannot be given effect to or cannot be realized, a meaningful construction of the statute should be adopted to bring about a more effective result. The relevant observations read as under: - “33. [...] As per the rule of construction contained in the maxim “Ut Res Magis Valeat Quam Pereat”, the construction of a rule should give effect to the rule rather than destroying it. Any narrow and pedantic interpretation of the provision which would defeat the object of the provision, cannot be accepted. It is also needless to say that where the intention of the Legislature cannot be given effect to, the courts would accept the bolder construction for the purpose of bringing about an effective result. [...] xxx xxx xxx 37. [...] However, it is equally settled legal position that the clauses of a statute should be construed with reference to the context vis-a-vis the other provisions so as to make a consistent enactment of the whole Statute relating to the subject matter. The Court can not be oblivious to the fact that the impact of traumatic sexual assault committed on children of tender age could endure during their whole life, and may also have an adverse effect on their mental state. The suffering of the victims in certain cases may be immeasurable. Therefore, considering the objects of the [2024] 10 S.C.R. 197 Just Rights for Children Alliance & Anr. v. S. Harish & Ors. POCSO Act, its provisions, more particularly pertaining to the sexual assault, sexual harassment etc. have to be construed vis-a-vis the other provisions, so as to make the objects of the Act more meaningful and effective.” (Emphasis supplied) 54. Justice S. Ravindra Bhat in his concurring opinion in Attorney General for India (supra) further observed that the POCSO and its nuanced provisions were designed keeping in mind the need to protect the autonomy and dignity of children. It was enacted to criminalize those acts and behaviour that have the propensity to harass, discomfit or demean minors, and as such it is the duty of the courts to ensure that the provisions of the POCSO are not interpreted in a manner that would undermine its purpose or the pressing needs of the times. The relevant observations read as under: - “11.