If the services provided by all the Professionals are also brought within the purview of the Act, there would be flood-gate of litigations in the commissions/forums established under the Act, particularly because the remedy provided under the Act is inexpensive and summary in nature. Consequently, the very object of providing timely and effective settlement of consumers’ disputes arising out of the unfair trade and unethical business practices would be frustrated. 20. We may clarify at this juncture that we do not propose to say that the professionals could not be sued or held liable for their alleged misconduct or tortious or criminal acts. In the process of overall depletion and erosion of ethical values and degradation of the professional ethics, the instances of professional misconduct are also on the rise. Undoubtedly, no professional either legal, medical 508 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports or any other professional enjoys any immunity from being sued or from being held liable for his professional or otherwise misconduct or other misdeeds causing legal, monetary or other injuries to his clients or the persons hiring or availing his services. The fact that professionals are governed by their respective Councils like Bar Councils or Medical Councils also would not absolve them from their civil or criminal liability arising out of their professional misconduct or negligence. Nonetheless, as discussed hereinabove, we are of the opinion that neither the Professions nor the Professionals were ever intended to be brought within the purview of the CP Act either of 1986 or 2019. 21. Of course, we are conscious of the decision in Indian Medical Association vs. V.P. Shantha & Others (supra), in which a three- Judge Bench of this Court has held inter alia that the wide amplitude of the definition of ‘service’ in the main part of Section 2(1)(o) would cover the services rendered by Medical Practitioners within the said Section 2(1)(o). However, in our humble opinion, the said decision deserves to be revisited having regard to the history, object, purpose and the scheme of the CP Act and in view of the opinion expressed by us hereinabove to the effect that neither the “Profession” could be treated as “business” or “trade” nor the services provided by the “Professionals” could be treated at par with the services provided by the Businessmen or the Traders, so as to bring them within the purview of the CP Act . 22. At this juncture, we may rely upon VI Rule 2 of the Supreme Court Rules which reads as under: - “ VI, Rule 2.- Where in the course of the hearing of any cause, appeal or other proceeding, the Bench considers that the matter should be dealt with by a larger Bench, it shall refer the matter to the Chief Justice, who shall thereupon constitute such a Bench for the hearing of it.” 23. The said Rule has been interpreted in Triveniben vs. State of Gujarat6, in which it has been observed that: - 6 [1989] 1 SCR 509 : (1989) 1 SCC 678 [2024] 6 S.C.R.