It then becomes imperative to discuss what constitutes fraud and what is its impact on an act afflicted by such vice. R.M. Sahai, J. writing in Shrisht Dhawan (Smt.) v. M/s. Shaw Brothers13 observed - “20. Fraud and collusion vitiate even the most solemn proceedings in any civilised system of jurisprudence. 11 [1999] 2 SCR 257 : (1999) 3 SCC 679 12 [2023] 12 SCR 740 : (2023) 10 SCC 675 13 [1991] Supp. 3 SCR 446 : (1992) 1 SCC 534 [2024] 8 S.C.R. 19 Union of India & Ors. Etc. v. Prohlad Guha Etc. It is a concept descriptive of human conduct. Michael Levi likens a fraudster to Milton’s sorcerer, Comus, who exulted in his ability to, ‘wing me into the easy-hearted man and trap him into snares’. It has been defined as an act of trickery or deceit. In Webster’s Third New International Dictionary fraud in equity has been defined as an act or omission to act or concealment by which one person obtains an advantage against conscience over another or which equity or public policy forbids as being prejudicial to another. In Black’s Legal Dictionary, fraud is defined as an intentional perversion of truth for the purpose of inducing another in reliance upon it to part with some valuable thing belonging to him or surrender a legal right; a false representation of a matter of fact whether by words or by conduct, by false or misleading allegations, or by concealment of that which should have been disclosed, which deceives and is intended to deceive another so that he shall act upon it to his legal injury. In Concise Oxford Dictionary, it has been defined as criminal deception, use of false representation to gain unjust advantage; dishonest artifice or trick. According to Halsbury’s Laws of England, a representation is deemed to have been false, and therefore a misrepresentation, if it was at the material date false in substance and in fact. …From dictionary meaning or even otherwise fraud arises out of deliberate active role of representator about a fact which he knows to be untrue yet he succeeds in misleading the representee by making him believe it to be true. The representation to become fraudulent must be of a fact with knowledge that it was false. …..The colour of fraud in public law or administrative law, as it is developing, is assuming different shades. It arises from a deception committed by disclosure of incorrect facts knowingly and deliberately to invoke exercise of power and procure an from an authority or tribunal. It must result in exercise of jurisdiction which otherwise would not have been exercised. That is misrepresentation must be in relation to the conditions provided in a section on existence or non-existence of which power can be exercised.” 20 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 13.1 The words of Denning L.J. in Lazarus Estates Ltd. v. Beasley14 are of importance qua the impact of fraud. He wrote – “…..I cannot accede to this argument for a moment.