]” 8. Sub-section (1) of Section 98 deals with the articles liable to confiscation, whenever any offence punishable under the Act has been committed. However, sub-section (2) of Section 98 is in two parts. The first part upto the conjunctive word “but”, states about the confiscation of the articles like receptacle, package or covering and about the confiscation of the animals, carts, vessels or any other conveyances used in carrying any such article, and the second part starting with the conjunctive word “but” is perceived to be an embargo against release of the conveyance used for carrying the article liable to be confiscated if the quantity of the seized liquor carried in such conveyance is more than the prescribed quantity, till the final of the court. It may be noted that the second part of sub-section (2) of Section 98 was incorporated by the Gujarat Act 29 of 2011. However, in our opinion, this incorporation of the second part by amendment in 2011 is not very happily worded, and therefore, it is seen as an embargo. 9. When the conjunction “but” is used in a provision, after the punctuation mark “comma”, it is deemed that such conjunction is used to carve out an exception or proviso to the main provision. Meaning thereby, when the entire provision is divided into two parts by using the punctuation mark “comma” followed by the conjunctive word “but”, the second part is required to be construed as an exception or proviso to the first part. However, so far as sub-section (2) of Section 98 is concerned though it is in two parts connected with the conjunctive word “but”, there is hardly any co-relation between the first part and [2024] 4 S.C.R. 613 Khengarbhai Lakhabhai Dambhala v. The State of Gujarat the second part thereof. It is difficult to comprehend the second part of sub-section (2) as an exception or proviso to the first part thereof. Since it is not happily worded, applying the doctrine of harmonious construction, we will have to harmonise the provisions contained therein with the other provisions of the Act and with the provisions contained in the Cr.P.C. 10. It is pertinent to note that the words “confiscation” or “seizure” are not defined either in the said Act or in the Cr.P.C. As per the Black’s Law Dictionary in the 11th Edition, the word “confiscation” means seizure of property for the public treasury or seizure of property by actual or supposed authority, and the word “seizure” means an act or an instance of taking possession of a person or property by legal right or process. Having regard to the said meanings, it is clear that “seizure” would be a preliminary step that would lead to confiscation of an article seized. The power to seize an article may be exercised by the statutory authorities like police personnel, prohibition officers, revenue authorities etc. in accordance with the concerned Statutes, whereas the power of confiscation is normally exercised by the jurisdictional Courts in accordance with the provisions of the concerned Statutes.