In to determine whether the observations form part of the ratio decidendi,one must go back to the drawing board and determine whether the observations pertained to an issue which actually arose between the parties and were necessary to the determination by the court. In other words, even if a numerical majority of judges or 126 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports opinions of the Court affirm an observation, it would not automatically constitute the ratio decidendi of the case. It must be independently established that the observation relates to an issue which was in dispute before the court. 127. Therefore, the single-line observation in Mafatlal that the phrase ‘material resources of the community’ used in Article 39(b) includes privately owned resources was obiter dicta and is not binding on this Court. iii. Interpreting Article 39(b) 128. Having addressed the contentions regarding judicial discipline and the precedential value of the s which gave rise to this reference, we turn to the substantive question before us: the interpretation of Article 39(b). 129. The counsel for the respondents contended that this Court should refrain from laying down a water-tight interpretation of Article 39(b) and it should be left to Parliament to determine the ambit of the provision based on the economic priorities of the day. We are not inclined to accept such an argument in its entirety. The interpretation of Article 39(b) has far-reaching consequences, involving judicial inquiry, which makes it incumbent on this Court to interpret the provision. These consequences, detailed below, underscore the necessity of a constitutional interpretation by this Court, while also highlighting the ramifications of adopting a wide and unmanageable construction of the provision. a. Article 39(b) as a pre-requisite to protection under Article 31C 130. As discussed in Part C of this judgement, Article 31C as upheld by the majority in Kesavananda Bharati remains in force under the Constitution. Under this provision (as it stands), no law giving effect to the policy of the State towards securing the principles specified in clauses (b) or (c) of Article 39(b) can be challenged on the ground that it is inconsistent with or takes away or abridges any of the rights conferred by Articles 14 and 19 of the Constitution. Therefore, the first and perhaps most significant consequence of this Court holding that a certain statute gives effect to the principles in Article 39(b) is that it falls within the immunity provided by Article 31C. The constitutionality of such a legislation cannot be challenged under Articles 14 or 19 of the Constitution. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 127 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. 131. Prior to the decision in Kesavananda Bharati, if a law merely contained a declaration that it gives effect to the policy laid down in Article 39(b), it could not be questioned in any court on the ground that it does not actually give effect to such a policy. In Kesavananda Bharati, this part of the provision was struck down. All laws which purport to give effect to the principles in Articles 39(b) or (c) of the Constitution are subject to judicial inquiry and review on the question of whether they actually bear a nexus with the provision.