Thereafter, the matter came up before us on 11.12.2023. On the said date, we heard the learned Solicitor General as well as the learned amicus curiae at length. We had also called for suggestions for more effective functioning of the CEC. 20. We find that by virtue of the Notification dated 05.09.2023, our concerns regarding the functioning of the CEC as an ad hoc body and that hereinafter it should be institutionalised as a permanent body have been taken care of. The said Notification provides for the constitution of the CEC, its powers, functions, mandate, members, method of appointment, terms of service, and monitoring of its functioning. 21. We further direct the CEC to adopt the following measures to promote institutional transparency, efficiency, and accountability in its functioning: i. The CEC shall formulate guidelines for the conduct of its functions and internal meetings. The CEC shall formulate the operating procedures delineating the roles of its members and the Secretary of the CEC. ii. The CEC shall formulate guidelines about the public meetings that it holds, ensure the publication of meeting agenda in advance on its website, maintain minutes of meetings, and set out rules regarding notice to parties. 26 ibid. s.7. 27 ibid, s.8. 28 ibid, s.9. 29 F. No. 13-12/2022-SU. [2024] 1 S.C.R. 1209 In Re: T. N. Godavarman Thirumulpad v. Union of India and Ors. iii. The CEC shall formulate guidelines for site visits and, if necessary, hearing the public and affected parties therein. iv. The CEC shall formulate guidelines fixing time limits for site visits, preparation of reports, and also the manner of preparation of reports. v. We further direct that these guidelines/regulations must be accessible for anyone to seek. They shall be posted on the official website of the CEC. PART-II 22. As new bodies, authorities, and regulators for environmental governance emerge from time to time, their institutionalisation assumes extraordinary importance. Institutionalisation means that these bodies must work in compliance with institutional norms of efficiency, integrity, and certainty. In this context, the role of the constitutional courts is even greater. 23. Environmental Rule of Law: Environmental rule of law refers to environmental governance that is undergirded by the fundamental tenets of rule of law.30 The rule of law regime is one that has effective, accountable, and transparent institutions; responsive, inclusive, participatory, and representative decision-making; and public access to information.31 It recognises the vital role that institutions play in governance and focuses on defining the structural norms and processes that guide institutional decision-making.32 24. While several laws, rules, and regulations exist for protection of the environment, their objective is not achieved as there is a considerable gap as these laws remain unenforced or ineffectively implemented. 30 United Nations, ‘Environmental Rule of Law: First Global Report’ (2019) https://www.unep.org/re- sources/assessment/environmental-rule-law-first-global-report, p.1, 8. The United Nations has defined environmental rule of law with reference to 7 core components, which are: i. Fair, clear, and implementable environmental laws; ii. Access to information, public participation, and access to justice through courts, tribunals, commis- sions, and other bodies; iii.