At the time of marriage, 50 sovereign of gold jewels; and vessels and other items worth Rs.50,000/- (Indian Rupees Fifty Thousand) were given to the Husband and his family. As revealed by P.W.-1, Mr. Chandrakasan (PW-1), the adoptive father of the deceased in his examination, one week after the marriage, the Deceased had informed him, that Accused No.2 continuously harasses her & treated her like a servant. It was further stated that Accused No.2 used to consume alcohol, play cards, and also had an illegal illicit relationship with his aunt, i.e., Accused No.1. P.W.-1 in the Complaint (Exhibit P-1) and his examination as P.W.-1, stated that on one occasion Accused Nos. 1 and 2 along with Deceased came to his house, and Accused Nos. 1 and 2 slept together in a single bedsheet in the hall while the Deceased slept in the bedroom. It later came to his knowledge through the Deceased that this was not an usual practice at the Appellants’ home. 4. On 23.08.2008, one Arunachalam had informed P.W.-1 that the Deceased has consumed paint and had been taken to the local hospital. It was upon receiving the said information, P.W.-1 and his wife (P.W.-2) had come down to Government Hospital, Kovilpatti and [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1761 Uma & Anr. v. The State Rep. by the Deputy Superintendent of Police found the dead body of the deceased in the mortuary. Subsequent thereto, P.W.-1 gave a written Complaint to the Sub Inspector of Police (P.W.-15) exhibited as Exhibit P-1, which was registered as Crime No. 183 of 2008 under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973. It is highlighted that none of the accused persons i.e., the Appellants, informed the P.W. 1 or the family of the deceased of her death. 5. The contents of the Complaint, reveal glaring details of the disturbing circumstances & troubles that the Deceased was being subjected to, by the Appellants at the time of her marriage and the said details, have been substantiated & corroborated by P.W.-1 in his cross-examination. The wife of P.W.-1 i.e., Ms. Sooriya Kalavathi has also adduced identical circumstances in her evidence, which affirm the allegations of the de-facto complainant. Notwithstanding thereto, such evidence needs to be tested on the anvil of consistency with the circumstances. 6. Since the Deceased had passed away within a period of 6 (six) months from the date of her marriage, the Investigating Officer (the “IO”) (P.W.-20) had also made arrangements to conduct enquiry by Revenue Divisional Officer (P.W.-l7). Although the Inquest Report marked as Exhibit P.14, stated that the death had not occurred due to demand of dowry, it is the case of the Prosecution, that Accused No.1 and Accused No.2 strangulated the neck of the Deceased with a saree. It is further alleged that Accused No.3 poured kerosene into the mouth of the Deceased. It is the case of the prosecution that with the intention to camouflage the incident, the accused persons i.e., the Appellants poured paint and kerosene into the mouth of Rajalakshmi to make the death appear like suicide.