[2024] 8 S.C.R. 1049 In Re: Alleged Rape and Murder Incident of A Trainee Doctor In R.G. Kar Medical College and Hospital, Kolkata and Related Issues Versus List of Keywords R.G. Kar Hospital Case; Trainee doctor; Rape; Murder; Health care establishments; Institutional safety standards; Medical professionals; Doctors, Women medical professionals; Healthcare; National Task Force; Healthcare service professionals; Violence; Damage to property; Safety of doctors; Health providers; Investigation transferred to CBI; Vandalization of hospital. Case Arising From CRIMINAL ORIGINAL JURISDICTION: SMW (Criminal) No. 2 of 2024 (Under Article 32 of The Constitution of India) Appearances for Parties By Courts Motion. Tushar Mehta, SG, Kapil Sibal, Dr. Menaka Guruswamy, Maninder Singh, Sr. Advs., Madhav Sinhal, Arkaj Kumar, Ms. Swati Ghildiyal, M.K. Maroria, Sanjay Basu, Ms. Astha Sharma, Srisatya Mohanty, Nipun Saxena, Ms. Anju Thomas, Ms. Aparajita Jamwal, Sanjeev Kaushik, Ms. Mantika Haryani, Shreyas Awasthi, Utkarsh Pratap, Ms. Pratibha Yadav, Ms. Lihzu Shiney Konyak, Ms. Ripul Swati Kumari, Lavkesh Bhambhani, Ms. Arunima Das, Devadipta Das, Archit Adlakha, Aditya Raj Pandey, Mehreen Garg, Prabhas Bajaj, Rishav Rai, Rithvik Mathur, Advs. for the Respondent. Ms. Aparajita Singh, Vijay Hansaria, Sanjay Hegde, Ms. Karuna Nundy, Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharya, Ms. Shashi Kiran, Raghenth Basant, Mahesh Jethmalani, Sr. Advs.,Ms. Vrinda Bhandari, Ms. Pragya Barsaiyan, Ms. Anandita Rana, Ms. Vanshita Gupta, Madhav Aggarwal, Ms. Sayantani Basak, Ms. Sneha Kalita, Ms. Kavya Jhawar, Ms. Nandini Rai, Omana Kuttan KK, Ms. Rambha Singh, Akhilesh Kr Mishra, Satayam Singh, Sanjeev Gupta, Thomas Oommen, Rajiv Ranjan, Mudrika Tomar, Amit Kumar Sharma, Tusharika Sharma, Sheetal Rajput, Samim Ahmed, Supratik Sarkar, Arnab Sinha, Bikram Banerjee, Imtiaz Ahmed, Sudipto Dasgupta, R.M. Patnaik, Arvind, Rohit Pandey, Ujjawal Gaur, Ms. Munisha, Ms. Astha Srivastava, Amit Mishra, Ms. Sangeeta Bhalla, Ravi Raghunath, Ms. Kaushitaki Sharma, Shoumendu Mukherji, Ms. Mohini Priya, Jamshed Mistry, Sunil Khattri, Firdous Samin, Gopa Biswas, Ms. Jhuma Sen, Anirudh Sanganeria, Phiroze Edulje, Anjan Datta, Ms. Ishitta Srivastava, Vishal Arun Mishra, Ms. Sumon Pathak, V.J. Pushpakumar, Ibrahim Ahmed, Adarsh Kumar, Vishal Tiwari, Advs. for the Intervenors. 1050 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports / of the Supreme Court 1. On 9 August, 2024, a thirty-one year old postgraduate doctor at RG Kar Medical College Hospital, Kolkata who was on a thirty six hour duty shift was murdered and allegedly raped inside the seminar room of the hospital. As horrific details have emerged in the course of media reportage, the brutality of the sexual assault and the nature of the crime have shocked the conscience of the Nation. The name and graphic images of the deceased have been widely circulated on social media without regard to her privacy or dignity. 2. Writ petitions were instituted before the Calcutta High Court seeking among other things, a court-monitored investigation of the crime and the conduct of the hospital authorities, including the role of the Principal of the medical college and other officials by a special team of investigating officers. It has been alleged that the parents of the deceased were initially informed that their daughter had committed suicide; they were permitted to see the dead body after several hours and a first information report in regard to the murder was registered belatedly by the police after several hours.