8.3 Patches of suitable habitats in the landscape may support wildlife populations (local populations), which may be separated from one another on account of various disturbance factors. Collectively, such patches of local populations are known as “regional populations”. This general situation of sub divided populations interacting with one another in a landscape to supplement new genes through movement, is known as a “meta population”. In the context of tiger land tenure dynamics, the core- buffer areas conform to the “island-mainland” or “coresatellite” form of meta population model. The core area of a tiger reserve provides a source of colonizers for the surrounding local populations of different sizes and varying degrees of isolation. The 234 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports core area may not readily experience extinction owing to the protection inputs for maintaining its inviolate nature. However, the surrounding isolated patches in the buffer area may suffer from local extinction if wildlife concerns are not mainstreamed in the area. Therefore, a meta population management approach is required for the buffer zone as well as corridors to facilitate : (a) Supplementing declining local tiger populations (b) Facilitating re-colonization in habitat patches through restorative management (c) Providing opportunity to tiger for colonizing new areas through patches of habitats (stepping stones) between isolated populations (Plate 4). Plate 4 : Meta population dynamics. Corridors become crucial for maintaining viability of Population 2 as by itself it does not have the habitat to sustain greater than 20 breeding tigers.” 53. In 2012, the NTCA issued Guidelines for Normative Standards for Tourisms Activities and for Project Tiger for tiger conservation in the buffer and core areas of the tiger reserves which were notified vide Gazette Notification dated 15th October 2012 (hereinafter referred to as “the 2012 Guidelines”) [2024] 3 S.C.R. 235 In Re: T.N. Godavarman Thirumulpad v. Union of India & Ors. In Re: Gaurav Kumar Bansal 54. Clause 16.2 of the 2012 Guidelines deals with strengthening of infrastructure within the tiger reserve, which reads thus : “16.2. Strengthening of infrastructure within Tiger Reserves (ongoing) (non recurring for new civil works and recurring for maintenance). The following activities, inter alia, would form part of reinforcing the infrastructure of tiger reserves (including support to new tiger reserves) : (i) Civil Works (staff quarters, family hostels, office improvement, patrolling camp, house keeping buildings, museum, culverts). (ii) Maintenance, creation and upgradation of road network. (iii) Maintenance and creation of wireless tower. (iv) Maintenance and creation of fire watch tower. (v) Maintenance and creation of bridges, dams, anicuts. (vi) Maintenance, creation of firelines and firebreaks. (vii) Maintenance and creation of earthen ponds. (viii) Procurement and maintenance of vehicles (Gypsy, Jeep, Truck, Tractor etc.). (ix) Habitat improvement works. (x) Procurement of hardware, software/Geographical Information System (GIS). (xi) Procurement of compass, range finder, Global Positioning System (GPS), camera traps. (xii) Procurement of satellite imageries for management planning. (xiii) Map digitization facility for management planning. (xiv) Monitoring system for Tigers’ Intensive Protection and Ecological Status (M-STrIPES) monitoring. (xv) E-surveillance.” 55. Clause 16.21 of the 2012 Guidelines deals with establishment of Tiger Safari, interpretation and awareness centres in buffer and fringe areas, which reads thus : 236 [2024] 3 S.C.R.