Violation of a conditional stay , in the usual course, would entail vacating thereof in a properly constituted proceeding. By resorting to such a step while exercising contempt jurisdiction, the High Court, in our considered opinion was not acting in furtherance of the principle adumbrated in the above decisions. 17. No doubt, the concluded act in violation of the status quo in relation to possession of the suit premises amounted to ‘civil contempt’ under Section 2(b) of the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971, and warranted appropriate consequences under the provisions thereof. However, without taking recourse to such a step, the High Court thought it fit to vacate the stay in the appeal so as to enable the Trust to execute the decree. This action of the High Court clearly transgressed the scope and extent of its contempt jurisdiction 3 [1996] 2 Suppl. SCR 295 : (1996) 4 SCC 622 4 [1985] 1 SCR 598 : (1984) 4 SCC 216 [2024] 1 S.C.R. 1099 Amit Kumar Das, Joint Secretary, Baitanik, A Registered Society v. Shrimati Hutheesingh Tagore Charitable Trust and cannot be sustained. To that extent, the impugned is set aside. However, as the High Court desisted from exercising contempt jurisdiction, owing to this misconceived measure, despite finding the contemnor guilty of willfully violating the status quo condition in the stay , we consider it appropriate to remand the matter to the High Court for continuing with that exercise as we have now set aside the course of action adopted by the High Court in the alternative. 18. Further, as the Trust asserts that the stay stood vacated automatically owing to the default by the Society in making deposits, it is for the Trust to take appropriate steps. The Trust would be at liberty to take all such measures as are permissible in law in that regard, be it before the High Court or the executing Court. 19. The appeal is accordingly allowed in part, to the extent indicated above. Pending applications, if any, shall stand closed. In the circumstances, parties shall bear their own costs. Headnotes prepared by: Divya Pandey Result of the case: Appeal partly allowed.