Such a case would be covered by the expression ‘the court may, in its discretion, require any such fact to be proved’ used in sub-rule (2) of Rule 5 of 8, or the expression ‘may make such in relation to the suit as it thinks fit’ used in Rule 10 of 8.” No doubt this decision was rendered considering that the verb used in the provision is ‘may’, but nothing substantial turns on it. 17. What emerges from a reading of Balraj Taneja (supra), with which we wholeheartedly concur, is that only on being satisfied that there is no fact which need to be proved on account of deemed admission, could the court pass a against the defendant who has not filed the written statement; but if the plaint itself suggests involvement of disputed questions of fact, it would not be safe for the court to pass a without requiring the plaintiff to prove the facts. Balraj Taneja (supra) also lays down the law that provision of Rule 10 of VIII, CPC is by no means mandatory in the sense that a court has no alternative but to pass a in favour of the plaintiff, if the defendant fails or neglects to file his written statement. 532 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 18. If indeed, in a given case, the defendant defaults in filing written statement and the first alternative were the only course to be adopted, it would tantamount to a plaintiff being altogether relieved of its obligation to prove his case to the satisfaction of the court. Generally, in to be entitled to a in his favour, what is required of a plaintiff is to prove his pleaded case by adducing evidence. Rule 10, in fact, has to be read together with Rule 5 of VIII and the position seems to be clear that a trial court, at its discretion, may require any fact, treated as admitted, to be so proved otherwise than by such admission. Similar is the position with section 58 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872. It must be remembered that a plaint in a suit is not akin to a writ petition where not only the facts are to be pleaded but also the evidence in support of the pleaded facts is to be annexed, whereafter, upon exchange of affidavits, such petition can be decided on affidavit evidence. Since facts are required to be pleaded in a plaint and not the evidence, which can be adduced in course of examination of witnesses, mere failure or neglect of a defendant to file a written statement controverting the pleaded facts in the plaint, in all cases, may not entitle him to a in his favour unless by adducing evidence he proves his case/claim. 19. Having noted what Rule 10 of VIII postulates, the dated 5th August, 1991 may be examined now since it is the genesis of the present litigation before us. The made by the Trial Court on 5th August, 1991, reads as below: “68-C application moved by the plaintiffs under -8 Rule-5 (2) & (3) read with Rule 10 CPC.