8. On the contrary, Shri Zoheb Hossain, learned counsel appearing for the respondent No.1 vehemently opposed the prayer of the appellant herein and supported the passed by the Division Bench. He would contend that issue of delay in filing the Writ Petition has been rightly ignored by the Division Bench and same has to recede to background in the facts obtained in the present case, in as much as the blatant violation of the guidelines would go to the root of the matter and the inherent defect cannot be allowed to be rectified, that too by relying upon an amendment to the guidelines which has come into force subsequent to the advertisement in question or in other words rules of the game could not have been changed after the commencement of the game which was exactly the exercise undertaken by the Learned Single Judge and rightly found to be improper by the Division Bench. Hence, he prays for dismissal of the appeal. 9. Having heard rival contentions raised and on perusal of the facts obtained in the present case, we are of the considered view that [2024] 4 S.C.R. 511 Mrinmoy Maity v. Chhanda Koley and Others writ petitioner ought to have been non-suited or in other words writ petition ought to have been dismissed on the ground of delay and laches itself. An applicant who approaches the court belatedly or in other words sleeps over his rights for a considerable period of time, wakes up from his deep slumber ought not to be granted the extraordinary relief by the writ courts. This Court time and again has held that delay defeats equity. Delay or laches is one of the factors which should be born in mind by the High Court while exercising discretionary powers under Article 226 of the Constitution of India. In a given case, the High Court may refuse to invoke its extraordinary powers if laxity on the part of the applicant to assert his right has allowed the cause of action to drift away and attempts are made subsequently to rekindle the lapsed cause of action. 10. The discretion to be exercised would be with care and caution. If the delay which has occasioned in approaching the writ court is explained which would appeal to the conscience of the court, in such circumstances it cannot be gainsaid by the contesting party that for all times to come the delay is not to be condoned. There may be myriad circumstances which gives rise to the invoking of the extraordinary jurisdiction and it all depends on facts and circumstances of each case, same cannot be described in a straight jacket formula with mathematical precision. The ultimate discretion to be exercised by the writ court depends upon the facts that it has to travel or the terrain in which the facts have travelled. 11. For filing of a writ petition, there is no doubt that no fixed period of limitation is prescribed. However, when the extraordinary jurisdiction of the writ court is invoked, it has to be seen as to whether within a reasonable time same has been invoked and even submitting of memorials would not revive the dead cause of action or resurrect the cause of action which has had a natural death.