That in Sanjeev Coke, it was observed by this Court that “all things capable of producing wealth of the community” fall within the ambit of the phrase. In other words, all resources of the individuals are consequentially the resources of the community. 5.6 While interpreting Article 39(b) of the Constitution, it is opined by the learned Chief Justice that if Article 39(b) was meant to include all resources owned by an individual, it would state that the “ownership and control of resources is so distributed as best to subserve the common good”. Similarly, if the provision were to exclude privately owned resources, it would state “ownership [2024] 11 S.C.R. 197 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. and control of resources of the State ….” instead of its present phrasing. The use of the word “of the community” rather than “of the State” indicates a specific intention to include some privately owned resources. Therefore, it is opined that not all privately owned resources fall within the ambit of the phrase. However, privately owned resources are not excluded as a class and some private resources may be covered. Of course, they must be a “material” resource and they must be “of the community”. Therefore, according to the learned Chief Justice the s doubted in the reference are incorrect to the extent that they hold that “all resources” of an individual are part of the community and thus, all private property is covered by the phrase “material resources of the community”. 5.7 I again have no cavil to the aforesaid discussion but what follows is the observation of the learned Chief Justice that the interpretation given by Krishna Iyer, J. in Ranganatha Reddy and Chinappa Reddy, J. in Sanjeev Coke, endorse a particular economic ideology and structure for our economy. That in substance the authors of those s namely, Krishna Iyer,J. in Ranganatha Reddy and Bhim Singhji vs. Union of India, AIR 1981 SC 234 (“Bhim Singhji”) and Chinappa Reddy, J. in Sanjeev Coke were influenced by a particular school of economic thought, which prioritised the acquisition of private properties by the State being beneficial for the nation. That these two judges consistently referred to the vision of the framers of the Constitution as the basis to advance their economic ideology as the guiding principle of the provision. 5.8 As opposed to the above, Dr. Ambedkar has been quoted by the learned Chief Justice to state that economic democracy in India is not tied to one economic structure, such as Socialism or Capitalism, but to the aspiration of a welfare state. The learned Chief Justice further opines “thus, the role of this Court is not to lay down economic policy, but to facilitate this intent of the framers to lay down the foundation for an “economic democracy”. The Krishna Iyer doctrine does a disservice to the broad and flexible spirit of the Constitution.” This is the finding on the first question of the second issue. 198 [2024] 11 S.C.R.