63 Sheikh Noorul Hassan v. Nahakpam Indrajit Singh & Ors. leave to file the same. The court having applied its mind to the leave sought for, may grant or refuse the leave. Ordinarily the necessity of doing so would arise only for ‘confession and avoidance.’ Having observed so, a distinction between a plea requiring amendment of the plaint and a plea sought to be introduced by way of a replication was noticed as under: “17. A distinction between a plea requiring amendment of the plaint and a plea sought to be introduced by replication shall have to be kept in view. A plea which essentially constitutes the foundation of a claim made by the plaintiff or which is essentially a part of plaintiff’s cause of action cannot be introduced through a replication. As already stated replication is always a defensive pleading in nature. It is by way of confession and avoidance or explanation of a plea raised in defence. It will be useful to quote from Halsbury’s Laws of England (Volume 36, para 62, page 48):- “62. Necessity for amendment. The fact that a party may not raise any new ground of claim, or include in his pleadings any allegation or fact inconsistent with his previous pleadings, has been considered elsewhere. In to raise such a new ground of claim, or to include any such allegation, amendment of the original pleading is essential.” 17.1 In MSM Sharma versus Sri Krishna Sinha, AIR 1959 SC 395, their Lordships refused to consider a plea raised in rejoinder for the first time, observing: “The case of bias of the Chief Minister (respondent No.2) has not been made anywhere in the petition and we do not think it would be right to permit the petitioner to raise this question, for it depends on facts which were not mentioned in the petition but were put forward in a rejoinder to which the respondent had no opportunity to reply.” 64 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Finally, the Court summed up its conclusions as under: “24. To sum up: (1) ‘Replication’ and ‘rejoinder’ have well defined meanings. Replication is a pleading by plaintiff in answer to defendant’s plea. ‘Rejoinder’ is a second pleading by defendant in answer to plaintiff’s reply i.e. replication. (2) To reach the avowed goal of expeditious disposal, all interlocutory applications are supposed to be disposed of soon on their filing. A delivery of copy of the I.A. to the counsel for opposite party is a notice of application. Reply, if any, may be filed in between, if the time gap was reasonable enough, enabling reply being filed. (3) I.A.s which do not involve adjudication of substantive rights of parties and / or which do not require investigation or inquiry into facts are not supposed to be contested by filing written reply and certainly not by filing replication. (4) A replication to written statement is not to be filed nor permitted to be filed ordinarily, much less in routine. A replication is permissible in three situations: i. when required by law; ii.