(e) To grant such other appropriate reliefs to the Petitioner as this Hon’ble Court may deem fit and proper in the interest of justice.” Hence, this Court has now come to be seized of the present petitions and questions involved therein. Submissions: 4. We have heard learned senior counsel Sri V. Giri, Sri P.S. Patwalia, Sri Preetesh Kapur, Sri Rajashekhar Rao, Sri Tapesh Kumar Singh and learned counsel Sri Manish K. Bishnoi, Sri Pai Amit, Sri Goutham Shivshankar, Sri Nirmal Kumar Ambastha, Sri Ashwin Kumar Das, Sri B. Ramana Kumar and other learned counsel for the petitioners and learned senior counsel for the respondents Sri Arvind P. Datar ably assisted by Sri Nikunj Dayal, Advocate and learned counsel for the intervenors Sri Wills Mathews. Submissions of the Petitioners: 4.1 Leading the arguments, Sri V. Giri submitted that the primary case of the petitioners is that the impugned Chapter VI of the Guidelines dated 08.08.2008 imposing an unreasonable restriction on a Chartered Accountant duly qualified to practice the profession of Chartered Accountancy in India is violative of Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution. Furthermore, the impugned Guidelines are arbitrary and lack any rational nexus with the objects sought to be achieved by the 1949 Act, namely, the regulation and maintenance of the status and standard of professional qualifications of the members of the Institute. 4.2 Learned senior counsel appearing for petitioners submitted that the intention of the 1949 Act was to provide for a rigorous test and exemplary qualification to enter into the sphere of the profession of accountants in practice and once in possession of requisite qualification, such a person is entitled to follow a profession which is exclusive and special on its own merit without any kind of restriction except for a conduct amounting to misconduct within the rigours of the 1949 Act. As a consequence, petitioners [2024] 6 S.C.R. 807 Shaji Poulose v. Institute of Chartered Accountants of India & Others contended that accepting a legitimate professional engagement by a professional can never be considered unprofessional or be considered a misconduct. 4.3 To highlight the arbitrariness of the restriction, it was contended on behalf of the petitioners that the restriction lacks any reasonable classification and reasonable nexus with the objects sought to be achieved. If the ceiling limit has been imposed on audits under Section 44AB, to achieve purity and quality of work, the restriction should have been imposed on the volume of work, as evidenced from the number of transactions and not on the number of audits. It was argued that a single audit work itself could be voluminous and occupy significant amount of a Chartered Accountant’s time, whereas another audit work itself could be completed with relative ease and within a limited time. 4.4 Furthermore, it was contended that the impugned Guidelines lack any reasonable classification or reasonable differentia on putting a ceiling limit on the number of tax audits under Section 44AB, IT Act, 1961 insofar as no maximum cap is placed on other audit assignments under the IT Act, 1961 that are carried out by Chartered Accountants with similarly taxing reporting requirements, such as Sections 44AD, 44AE, 44AF of the IT Act, 1961.