reported in 2024 SCC OnLine SC 254. 23. He further submitted that ‘Merit-cum-Seniority’ is not a vague literary term, but carries a specific meaning in service jurisprudence. He submitted that the decision in All India Judges’ Association (3) (supra) consciously substituted the earlier criteria of ‘Seniority-cum- Merit’ with ‘Merit-cum-Seniority’. 24. In the last, Mr R. Basant submitted that this Court in a plethora of its decisions has consistently held that where a minimum benchmark is laid down and candidates having secured the minimum required marks are promoted on the basis of the seniority irrespective of the individual marks secured by them, it is an instance of ‘Seniority- cum-Merit’. 1096 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports D. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE HIGH COURT 25. Mr. V. Giri, learned Senior Counsel appearing for the High Court of Gujarat submitted that ‘Merit-cum-Seniority’ should not be conflated with Merit and that there is a clear distinction between the two concepts. He submitted that whilst merit is concerned only with the grade/credit of the candidate, the former not only checks the merit but also lays emphasis on seniority. 26. He submitted that if the interpretation of ‘Merit-cum-Seniority’ as canvassed by the petitioners is accepted, then the entire process of promotion would become solely based on merit and the aspect of seniority would be completely obliterated from the principle of ‘Merit-cum-Seniority’. 27. He further submitted that doing so would have a far-reaching effect. The same would result in an amalgamation of the promotion process against 65% posts on the basis of ‘Merit-cum-Seniority’ and the process against 10% posts on the basis of strict merit in the cadre of District Judges and would completely do away with the fine distinction between the two modes of promotion. 28. Finally, Mr. Giri submitted that the High Court has been following the same methodology since 2011. E. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE PROMOTED CANDIDATES 29. Mr. Dushyant Dave, learned Senior Counsel appearing for judicial officers who found place in the final Select List submitted that the writ petition under Article 32 ought not to be entertained as the petitioners have an alternative efficacious remedy of filing a writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution before the High Court. 30. He submitted that in All India Judges’ Association (3) (supra) the principle of ‘Merit-cum-Seniority’ and Suitability Test was provided only to objectively ascertain a minimum standard of merit for the purpose of promotion to the Higher Judicial Services in the cadre of District & Sessions Judge. 31. Mr. Dave submitted that merely having scored a few marks more than the other candidates is neither an indication of being tangibly more meritorious nor a cogent reason to completely negate the length of service of the senior candidates. He submitted that if the [2024] 5 S.C.R. 1097 Ravikumar Dhansukhlal Maheta & Anr. v. High Court of Gujarat & Ors. interpretation as canvassed by the petitioners is accepted, it would cause undue hardship and result in unjust treatment to his clients whose names were included in the final Select List, as they would end up losing their precious years of seniority in service only on account of having obtained a few marks lesser compared to the petitioners.