8. That Accused No. 5 is the brother-in-law of the first informant and he resides in Delhi. After the marriage he used to come to the matrimonial house of the first informant alongwith Accused No. 4 and used to instigate Accused No. 1 to 3 against the first informant. When the first informant used to oppose this he used to hurl abuses to the first informant. 9. That during this period the Accused persons have beaten the first informant multiple times for demand of dowry and whenever the accused persons threw out the first informant out of the house every time the family of the Petitioner used to come along with panchas of the society and sat with the Accused persons and in every meeting at least something was given to the Accused persons but the Accused [2024] 6 S.C.R. 137 Achin Gupta v. State of Haryana & Anr. persons neither left their demand for dowry nor they changed their behaviour. 10. That on 02.03.2012 a son Advay was born to the first informant, the Accused persons said to the first informant that now in the traditional gifts you have to fulfil our demand for dowry. In the traditional gift the family of the first informant gave 5 tolas of gold ornaments, 51 thousand rupees in cash, and spent about 1 lakh rupees on clothing, sweets and other items. But the Accused persons were not satisfied with the articles gifted at that time and were adamant on their demand. 11. That when the first informant was at her matrimonial house she was posted on the post of Assistant Professor in a college at Delhi but Accused No. 1 to 3 used to snatch the whole salary of the first informant and even did not give pocket money to the first informant. Whenever the first informant demanded pocket money from Accused No. 1 he used to beat her and said that you take your expenses from your family. It is pertinent to mention here that even after the marriage the family of the first informant many times gave pocket money and money for other expenses. Before going for her job the first informant used to do all household work and prepared lunch after waking up early in the morning and then she went to the college and after returning in the evening she used to do all household work. 12. That after the marriage, Accused No.3 and 4 pressurized the first informant that you have to wear saree because according to the tradition, the daughters-in-law used to wear sarees. When the first informant said that I am not able to do the household chores while wearing saree, they both used to beat and abuse the first informant. 13. That in 2014, the first informant came to know that her husband Respondent No.1 is in illicit relationship with Vandana Sharma and when the first informant 138 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports objected to this Accused No. 1 used to abuse and beat her and used to threaten that if you will tell this fact to anyone, I will kill you.