15. Accordingly, punishment of ‘admonition’ dated 18.01.2011 awarded to the petitioner is set aside. Impugned dated 28.04.2011 (Annexure-27 to the petition), and dated 06.01.2010 (Annexure-25 to the petition) are also set side. Consequences to follow. So far as prayer of the petitioner for directing Sqn Ldr H.V. Pandey, respondent no.7 to pay compensation to the petitioner is concerned, we find that the petitioner has not been able to make out a case, hence rejected. 16. T.A is disposed of accordingly.” 6.1 It is apparent from the findings of the Tribunal that the respondent No. 7, took the incident personally and forcefully confiscated the keys of the motorcycle and ed the appellant to report to the Guard room. The Tribunal also notices that he was taken into custody. The Tribunal also recorded that at the instance of respondent No. 7 the appellant was locked in the Cell. While deprecating the conduct of respondent No. 7 for adopting such a severe action over a trivial issue, the Tribunal opined that the officer of a rank of Sq. Ldr. could have given a proper advice to the appellant, to rectify his actions, keeping in view the high discipline and dignity of Airforce. However, the manner in which respondent No. 7 conducted himself was not appreciated. While deprecating the conduct of respondent No. 7 the Tribunal also came to the conclusion that the appellant was subjected to harassment and humiliation giving an impression of vindictiveness at the instance of the concerned officers. It is for this reason the Tribunal had no hesitation in setting aside the punishment. The Tribunal set aside the of Admonition dt. 18.01.2011. It also set aside the dated 28.04.2011, [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2321 S.P. Pandey v. Union of India & Ors. whereby the appellant’s statutory appeal had been dismissed. Lastly, the Tribunal also set aside the dated 06.01.2010, wherein the Air Force Commander had rejected the appellant’s representation. Thus, the decision and the findings of the Tribunal have attained finality. 6.2 However, for reason that the Tribunal rejected the prayer for compensation, the present appeal filed by the appellant. We have gone through the material on record, findings of the Tribunal and noted the submissions of Ms. Vanshaja Shukla, counsel for the appellant and by Mr. R. Bala, senior counsel for the respondents. 7. The initial service of the appellant for 14 long years, from its commencement in 1997 to 2011 was unblemished. This is an admitted fact. From the unfortunate incident on 17.05.2010, the appellant’s life was embroiled in defending in the disciplinary proceedings and contesting the case before the Tribunal. The disproportionate measure adopted by the respondents, the assurance of expunging the admonition, withdrawal of the same and then the retrial, leading to imposition of the punishment caused great amount of distress. 8. The findings of the Tribunal are categorical. It found that the matter was escalated beyond proportion and there is also an element of vindictiveness in the action taken against the appellant. More than anything, the lone battle of the appellant against the unfair and arbitrary treatment meted out to him, we think is the cause and reason for the indignation.