After the plan is presented to the COC for its approval, the COC, under sub-section (4) of Section 30, has to consider its feasibility and viability, the manner of distribution proposed, including the priority and value of the security interest of a secured creditor and such other requirements as may be specified by the Board. Once that exercise is over, the plan is submitted for approval of the Adjudicating Authority, which must, under sub-section (1) of Section 31, satisfy itself as to whether the plan approved by COC under sub-section (4) of Section 30 meets the requirements as referred to in sub-section (2) of Section 30 of IBC. [2024] 2 S.C.R. 277 Greater Noida Industrial Development Authority v. Prabhjit Singh Soni & Anr. 32. In Jaypee Kensington Boulevard Apartments Welfare Association vs. NBCC (India) Ltd.,31 a three-Judge Bench of this Court had occasion to examine the scope of judicial review exercisable by: (a) the Adjudicating Authority, under Section 31 (1), over a resolution plan approved by the COC; and (b) the Appellate Authority exercising its power under Section 32 read with Section 61 (3) of the IBC. After examining the relevant provisions of the IBC and the Regulations framed thereunder, and upon a survey of various judicial pronouncements on the subject, the scope of judicial review was summarised as follows: “108. To put in a nutshell, the adjudicating authority has limited jurisdiction in the matter of approval of a resolution plan, which is well-defined and circumscribed by Sections 30(2) and 31 of the Code read with the parameters delineated by this Court in the decisions above-referred. The jurisdiction of the appellate authority is also circumscribed by the limited grounds of appeal provided in Section 61 of the Code. In the adjudicatory process concerning a resolution plan under IBC, there is no scope for interference with the commercial aspects of the decision of the CoC; and there is no scope for substituting any commercial term of the resolution plan approved by the CoC. Within its limited jurisdiction, if the adjudicating authority or the appellate authority, as the case may be, would find any shortcoming in the resolution plan vis-à-vis the specified parameters, it would only send the resolution plan back to the Committee of Creditors, for re-submission after satisfying the parameters delineated by the Code and exposited by this Court. (Emphasis supplied) 33. In light of the analysis of the provisions of the IBC and the Regulations framed thereunder, in our view, though commercial wisdom of the COC in approving a resolution plan may not be justiciable in exercise of the power of judicial review, the Adjudicating Authority can always take notice of any shortcoming in the resolution plan in terms of the parameters specified in sub-section (2) of Section 30 of the IBC 31 [2021] 12 SCR 603 : (2022) 1 SCC 401 278 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports coupled with Regulations 37 and 38 of the CIRP Regulations 2016. If any such shortcoming appears in the resolution plan, it may send the resolution plan back to the COC for re-submission after satisfying the parameters so laid down.