[2024] 7 S.C.R. 676 : 2024 INSC 502 The State of West Bengal v. Union of India (Original Suit No. 4 of 2021) 10 July 2024 [B.R. Gavai* and Sandeep Mehta, JJ.] Issue for Consideration Instant suit has been filed by the State of West Bengal against Union of India seeking declaration that registration of cases by the defendant-UOI after withdrawal of Notification u/s. 6 of the DSPE Act by the plaintiff-State is unconstitutional and non-est; seeking restraining and forbearing the UOI from registering any case and/or investigating a case in connection with offences committed within the territory of State of West Bengal after withdrawal of the consent u/s. 6 of the DSPE Act by the State, as also sought quashing of such cases; and as regards the jurisdiction of the CBI to investigate cases within the State of West Bengal after the withdrawal of the consent u/s. 6 of the DSPE Act. Headnotes† Constitution of India – Art. 131 – Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, 1946 – Withdrawal of the consent u/s. 6 of the DSPE Act by the State which allowed CBI to conduct investigations of cases in West Bengal – Case of the State that after withdrawal of the consent, the CBI continued to register cases in the State of West Bengal – Suit filed by the State of West Bengal against Union of India seeking declaration that registration of cases by the UOI after withdrawal of the consent u/s. 6 of the DSPE Act by the State is unconstitutional and non-est; sought restraining and forbearing the UOI from registering any case and/or investigating a case in connection with offences committed within the territory of State of West Bengal after withdrawal of the consent u/s. 6 of the DSPE Act by the State, as also sought quashing of such cases; and as regards the jurisdiction of the CBI to investigate cases within the State of West Bengal after the withdrawal of the consent u/s. 6 of the DSPE Act – Preliminary objections raised by the Union of India with regard to the maintainability of the suit: * Author [2024] 7 S.C.R. 677 The State of West Bengal v. Union of India Held: Preliminary objections raised by the Union of India with regard to the maintainability of the suit is rejected – Very establishment, exercise of powers, extension of jurisdiction, the superintendence of the DSPE, all vest with the Government of India – CBI is an organ or a body which is established by and which is under the superintendence of the Government of India in view of the statutory scheme as enacted by the DSPE Act – Plea that UOI having no superintendence or control over the CBI cannot be accepted – Merely because, in any of the proceedings initiated u/Art. 32 or Art. 136 or even Art. 226, one of the parties is common, the pendency of such proceedings would not come in the way of a specific party mentioned in Art. 131 to take recourse to the remedy available therein – Remedy under Art.