The revisional power is severely circumscribed by Rule 5(1)(b) of the A& R Rules and is confined to points of law. 61. In view of that, on facts, it is held that the breach of principles of natural justice in the proceedings before the Collector did not stand cured on account of the proceedings before the revisional authority. Equally so, judicial review proceedings being a review of the decision- making process and not being a merits review, such proceedings also cannot be a cure for the violation of the audi alteram partem rule before the fact-finding authority. 228 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Question No.4 To what relief the appellants are entitled to? 62. As would be clear from the sequence of facts set out above, the appellants were appointed as Shiksha Karmi Grade-III and they joined their duties in September, 1998. Of all the candidates who appeared, only one of them - Archana Mishra (R-4) took up the matter in challenge and filed proceedings before the Collector under Rule 3 of the A&R Rules read with Section 12 of the Recruitment Rules. Before the Collector, she impleaded only the Officers ex-officio. Even though allegations of mala fide and favouritism in the markings during interview were made neither the members of the Committee in their individual capacity nor the selected and appointed candidates, like the appellants were made parties. A reading of the of the Collector and the revisional authority, discloses that, the resolution passed by the Standing Committee of the Panchayat on 01.08.1998 providing for recusal of the committee members from the statutory committee and for re-allocation of marks by vesting it in the Chief Executive Officer, was not even discussed in the s. It is difficult to speculate, what the response of the Collector and the revisional authority would have been, if they were posted of the recusal resolution. Neither in the of the Collector nor in the of the revisional authority is the definition of relative as available in explanation 40(c) of the M.P. Adhiniyam set out or discussed. Admittedly, seven out of the 14 candidates did not come within the definition of ‘relative’, under the explanation to Section 40(c). 63. Learned counsel for the appellants here have, citing the resolution of 01.08.1998, contended that adequate precautions like recusal and absence from the venue was taken. Learned counsel contends that there is no material to show that the committee members influenced the selection process. Even the Collector, it is pointed out, has recorded in the that it was not possible for the Collector to consider the determination of the marks of interview since it was the discretion of the committee. Even after so holding, the Collector set aside the appointments only of the appellants merely on the basis that there was an admission by the Chief Executive Officer, impleaded ex-officio, about the factum of some candidates being related to the committee members. While the Collector and the revisional authority only put it on the factum of some candidates being related, without [2024] 4 S.C.R.