On the contrary it is held that the plaintiff has satisfactorily pleaded and established his title over the suit land and finding recorded by the two courts below with respect to the plaintiff’s title is liable to be set aside.” 11. The contentions of the appellants 1, 2 & 3 herein, who are legal representatives of original defendant No.1 as also appellant No.4 who was the original defendant No.2 is that the alleged sale effected as per Ext.P1/C – sale deed dated 04.06.1968 was merely on paper and was bogus and sham document. According to them, Sitaram, the common cousin of original defendants as also the plaintiff got no right to transfer the suit schedule property to the plaintiff as he himself had not accrued any right over the suit schedule property based on sale deed registered in the year 1963. It is their contention that the said property was purchased in the name of Sitaram by father of original defendants along with his brothers for the joint family (and thus in sum-and-substance) as their benami and hence, he was not the real owner of the suit schedule property. That apart, they would contend that they have perfected the title over the suit schedule property by way of adverse possession since they have been in continuous possession of the suit schedule property since the year 1968. That apart, it is contended that as rightly held by the Trial Court as also the First Appellate Court, the suit filed by the plaintiff-first respondent was barred by limitation as it was not filed within 12 years from the date of alleged sale. 12. Per contra, the learned counsel appearing for the first respondent would contend that the High Court was perfectly justified in interfering with the s and decree of the courts below as they were outcome of perverse appreciation of evidence. To buttress this contention, he relied on Section-4 of Benami Transactions (Prohibitions) Act, 1988 and Article 65 of the Limitation Act, 1963 and the decisions rendered thereunder and relied on by the High Court. It is the contention that in Ex- P-4, the respondent – defendants categorically admitted that 718 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports they were placed in possession of a suit land in 1973 and continued in possession up to 1974 as Adhiyadar (lessee) and hence, their possession could be termed only as permissive possession and it could never be said to be adverse possession except by proving that their possession is adverse to the title of the property to the knowledge of the true owner viz. the plaintiff for a period of 12 years or more. He would further contend that by no stretch of imagination possession of defendants as Adhiyadar (lessee) could be said to be adverse and it could only be permissive possession. 13. A careful analysis of the impugned would reveal that while reversing the concurrent of dismissal of the suit, the High Court found various perversities in the manner of appreciation of evidence.