29. This Court, in Selvi J. Jayalalitha (supra), was concerned with an appeal against an of acquittal passed in a case of disproportionate assets under Section 13 of the Prevention of Corruption Act. The accused persons therein had sought to place reliance on income tax returns and income tax assessment s. In that context the Court had concluded that income tax returns and s are not by themselves conclusive proof that they are lawful sources of income under Section 13 of the Prevention of Corruption Act and that independent evidence to corroborate the same would be required. The Court held: “188. In Anantharam Veerasinghaiah & Co. v. CIT, 1980 Supp SCC 13 : 1980 SCC (Tax) 274] , the return filed by the petitioner assessee, who was an Abkari contractor, was not accepted by the ITO as amongst others, excess expenditure over the disclosed available cash was noticeable and further several deposits had been made in the names of others. The assessee’s explanation that the excess expenditure was met from the amounts deposited with him by other shopkeepers but were not entered in his book, was not accepted and penalty proceedings were taken out against him holding that the items of cash deficit and cash deposit represented concealed income resulting from suppressed yield and low selling rates mentioned in the books. The Appellate Tribunal, however, allowed the appeal of the assessee and set aside the penalty . The High Court reversed [CIT v. Anantharam Veerasingaiah & Co., 1971 SCC OnLine AP 262 : (1975) 99 ITR 544] the decision of the Appellate Tribunal and the matter reached the Supreme Court. 189. It was held that as per Section 271(1)(c) of the Income Tax Act, 1961, penalty can be imposed in case where any person has concealed the particulars of his income or has deliberately furnished inaccurate particulars of [2024] 3 S.C.R. 695 Puneet Sabharwal v. CBI such income. The related proceeding was quasi-criminal in nature and the burden lay on the Revenue to establish that the disputed amount represented income and that the assessee had consciously concealed the particulars of his income or had deliberately furnished inaccurate particulars. The burden of proof in penalty proceedings varied from that involved in assessment proceedings and a finding in assessment proceedings that a particular receipt was income cannot automatically be adopted as a finding to that effect in the penalty proceedings. In the penalty proceedings, the taxing authority was bound to consider the matter afresh on the materials before it, to ascertain that whether a particular amount is a revenue receipt. It was observed that no doubt the fact that the assessment year contains a finding that the disputed amount represents income constitutes good evidence in the penalty proceedings, but the finding in the assessment proceedings cannot be regarded as conclusive for the purpose of penalty proceedings. Before a penalty can be imposed, the entirety of the circumstances must be taken into account and must lead to the conclusion that the disputed amount represented income and that the assessee had consciously concealed the particulars of his income or had deliberately furnished inaccurate particulars.