While on the subject, a study of contrasts would be of profit, if one were to examine the founding Acts of one contemporary university, i.e., the Annamalai University Act, 192840. It would also be of profit to examine the Visva Bharati Act, 195141, which came to be enacted immediately after India attained independence. 70. The 1928 Act records as follows: “AND WHEREAS the Hon’ble Diwan Bahadur Sir S.R.M. Annamalai Chettiyar has established and is maintaining colleges at and near Chidambaram in which higher instruction is imparted in English, Tamil and Sanskrit studies; AND WHEREAS the said Sir Annamalai Chettiyar has agreed with the Local Government to hand over the said institutions together with all the properties attached thereto and further to give a sum of twenty lakhs of rupees for the purposes of establishing and maintaining at Annamalainagar a Teaching and Residential University wherein he and his heirs shall be entitled to certain powers and privileges;” (emphasis supplied) 40 1928 Act, hereafter 41 1951 Act, hereafter [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1887 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. 71. The 1951 Act, similarly, pays homage and specifically recognises its founder, ‘Kabiguru’ to millions of his ardent followers in his state of birth and beyond, as follows: “2. Declaration of Visva-Bharati as an institution of national importance.—Whereas the late Rabindranath Tagore (Thakur) founded an institution known as Visva-Bharati at Santiniketan in the district of Birbhum in West Bengal the objects of which are such as to make the institution one of national importance, it is hereby declared that the institution known as ‘Visva-Bharati’ aforesaid is an institution of national importance and is as such hereby constituted as a University.” (emphasis supplied) 72. It is evident upon bare perusal of the above extracts that while establishing the respective universities, which are obviously statutory creations, the 1928 Act and the 1951 Act categorically recognise establishment of the respective predecessor institution by its founder. Annamalai University and Visva Bharati University are synonymous with Sir Annamalai Chettiar and Gurudeb Rabindra Nath Thakur, respectively; however, the AMU Act is woefully bereft of the same or similar recognition. The AMU Act is conspicuously silent on two major elements which the appellants argue was what brought AMU into existence – the contributions of Sir Syed and that of the donations collected en masse from the Muslim community in to establish the erstwhile MAO College. If the institution was truly founded by the minority community, as contended by the appellants, there is no reason why the Preamble would not have been drafted in a similar manner so as to highlight the same. I am unable to subscribe to the majority opinion of recognition of the respective founders in the 1928 Act and the 1951 Act being of no relevance. 73. It would be further apposite to examine the enactments establishing two other minority universities. Firstly, the Sam Higginbottom University of Agriculture, Technology and Sciences, Uttar Pradesh Act, 2016, whose Preamble decisively recognises the establishment of the said university by the minority Christian community, as follows: 1888 [2024] 11 S.C.R.