Most of the times, the appointments and admissions get stuck up for years on account of litigation. This has caused enormous delay in the recruitment process and the vacancies remaining unfilled for long, giving rise to stop-gap/ad-hoc appointments resulting in further litigation. It is also noticeable that enough time and energy has been spent by all the three wings of the State in streamlining the process of reservation and to evolve a flawless mechanism for implementing the reservation policy but still the non-visionary approach to handle the upliftment of the backward castes has created more difficulties rather than ironing them out. [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1663 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. 53. It is a matter of record that in pro-reservation agitations and anti- reservation agitations, the peace and tranquillity of the entire country, at times, stood disturbed. Specially, during the anti-Mandal Commission agitation somewhere in 1990, most of the States witnessed large scale disturbances. The turmoil so created by such agitations and demonstrations particularly in the months of August-November of 1990 is the ample indication of the wide spread violence. 54. It may not be out of context to point out that apart from the anti- Mandal Commission violence, the country witnessed similar violence in the year 2006 when the students of IITs and AIIMS came out on the streets opposing reservation. Also, there was violence in Maharashtra against the Maratha reservation, to talk about the few. 55. After independence, a special provision was made in the Directive Principles of State Policy to provide compulsory primary education to all children within a period of 10 years but the target could not be achieved even after 77 years of independence. The Central Government, few years back, in to provide free education to children enacted Right to Education Act, 2009. The aforesaid Act proved to be a very weak legislation and have not been able to provide primary education to one and all irrespective of the caste, creed, race, religion and sex as most of the children of the so-called depressed class either fail to attend schools or drop out after one and two years of education. There is no compulsion to give education to such children. The policy of reservation is applicable at the higher level only and for the purposes of employment. Thus, depriving such children or the drop outs, at the primary level of the benefit of reservation or upliftment in any other manner, as a result of which these children ultimately remain the most backward of the backwards. 56. The statistics proves that the deprived and the marginalized persons have not been able to achieve the benefit of reservation which is permissible at higher level as about 50% of the students from the most backward classes drop out of school before Class-V and 75% drop out before Class-VIII. The figure goes to even 95 per cent when it comes to the level of high school. Thus, only the children of some of the castes, who are already affluent or urbanized, are able to obtain higher education and the benefits of reservation.