[Paras 74-79] Education/Educational Institutions – Madarasas – History of Madarsas – Teaching in Madarsas – Elucidated. [Paras 2-23] Constitution of India – Arts.25-30, 14-16 – Secularism in the constitutional context – Secularism and regulation of minority educational institutions – Stated. [Paras 37-45] Constitution of India – Art.30(1) – Secularism – Concept of positive secularism: Held: In the spirit of positive secularism, Art.30 confers special rights on religious and linguistic minorities because of their numerical handicap and to instil in them a sense of security and confidence – Positive concept of secularism requires the State to take active steps to treat minority institutions on par with secular institutions while allowing them to retain their minority character – Positive secularism allows the State to treat some persons differently to treat all persons equally – Concept of positive secularism finds consonance in principle of substantive equality. [Para 70] Constitution of India – Basis structure doctrine – Testing the validity of a statute for violation of the basic structure: Held: Statute can be struck down only for the violation of Part III or any other provision of the Constitution or for being without [2024] 11 S.C.R. 369 Anjum Kadari & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. legislative competence – Constitutional validity of a statute cannot be challenged for the violation of the basic structure of the Constitution since the concepts such as democracy, federalism, and secularism are undefined concepts – Allowing courts to strike down legislation for violation of such concepts will introduce an element of uncertainty – Challenge to the constitutional validity of a statute for violation of the basic structure is a technical aspect because the infraction has to be traced to the express provisions of the Constitution – Thus, in a challenge to the validity of a statute for violation of the principle of secularism, it must be shown that the statute violates provisions of the Constitution pertaining to secularism – High Court erred in holding that a statute is bound to be struck down if it is violative of the basic structure. [Para 55] Constitution of India – Minority educational institutions – Regulation of, by the State: Held: State has an interest in ensuring that minority educational institutions provide standards of education similar to other educational institutions – State can enact regulatory measures to promote efficiency and excellence of educational standards – Regulations about standards of education do not directly bear upon the management of minority institutions – State can regulate aspects of standards of education such as course of study, qualification and appointment of teachers, health and hygiene of students, and facilities for libraries – Affiliation or recognition of minority educational institutions by the Government secures the academic interests of students studying in such institutions to pursue higher education. [Paras 58, 62] Constitution of India – Legislative competence of the state legislature – Interpretation of the entries in the Seventh Schedule – Relevant principles – Elucidated. [Para 84] Case Law Cited Anshuman Singh Rathore v. Union of India and Others, Writ (C) No.