All that is required by the Court is to see as to whether the contracting parties have agreed to bind themselves to the terms with the only supervisory jurisdiction of the Court to consider breach thereof, in the light of the grounds specified under Section 34. 32.6 To our mind, the court lost sight of the fact that the civil contract was composite in nature that is having contracted both of 300 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the building of the office and residence together. In these circumstances, the contractor could not have commenced work of part of the project when the complete site and the drawings were not handed over to him. In the absence of the parties have agreed otherwise, work could not have commenced. Hence, observation of the court, advisory in nature, for the contractor to have commenced the work for one part of the contract is unwarranted and uncalled for, in fact perverse. 32.7 The other observation that there was a delay on the part of the contractor in completing the work or speeding up the work does not reflect in the record. They are nothing short of mere conjectures. This is more so in view of the absence of invocation of the arbitration clause or initiation of the proceedings thereunder on the part of the Respondent against the contractor as also not raising any counter claims for adjudication by the Arbitrator. 32.8 Accounting for the legal position, the court could have at best set aside the award and could not modify the same. 32.9 We also notice the learned Arbitrator, to have accepted the contention of the Claimant-Appellant that there was a delay in supply of drawings, which in turn caused delay in placing the s for steel and other such requirements. The Civil Judge had disagreed therewith on a mere reference to “Ex. R 38 to 95” showing prompt supply. There is no discussion whatsoever. Another instance is noteworthy. It was observed that the question of idleness of the labour does not arise if there was another building to be constructed, and therefore, such claim cannot be paid. This is a clear instance of the court supplanting its view in place of the Arbitrator, which is not a permissible exercise, and is completely de-hors to the jurisdiction under Section 34. 33. As such, the modification of the arbitral award by the learned Civil Judge, Sirsi, does not stand scrutiny, and must be set aside. UNDER SECTION 37 A&C ACT 34. Moving further, we now consider the impugned before us, i.e., the of the High Court upholding such modification, under the jurisdiction of Section 37 of the A&C Act. [2024] 1 S.C.R. 301 S.V. Samudram v. State of Karnataka & Anr 35. It has been observed by this Court in MMTC Ltd. v. Vedanta Ltd.13 “14. As far as interference with an made under Section 34, as per Section 37, is concerned, it cannot be disputed that such interference under Section 37 cannot travel beyond the restrictions laid down under Section 34.