1417 Airports Economic Regulatory Authority of India v. Delhi International Airport Ltd. & Ors. requires AERA to follow principles of natural justice before determining the tariff of aeronautical services; c. The AERA Act does not expressly provide that AERA must be impleaded as a respondent to the appeal against its before TDSAT; d. The interests of affected parties will be safeguarded even if AERA does not file an appeal against the of TDSAT under Section 31. Section 18(2) permits any aggrieved person or even the Central Government who may act as a parens patriae to prefer an appeal against the of AERA, and by extension the of TDSAT; e. Section 31 does not expressly empower AERA to file an appeal against the of TDSAT, unlike Section 53T of the Competition Act 200222 which empowers the Competition Commission to prefer an appeal before the Supreme Court against an of the Appellate Tribunal; f. Section 18(5) provides that TDSAT must send a copy of all its s to (a) parties to the dispute or appeal; and (b) the Authority. The provision by specifying the Authority separately from the parties to the dispute or appeal clarifies that it cannot be a party to the dispute or appeal, and consequently cannot prefer an appeal; and g. TDSAT or this Court may have to remand matters back to AERA for redetermination of tariff. AERA cannot be both a contesting party and also redetermine tariff. It would result in the possible operation of bias. 14. Mr Venkataramani, Attorney General for India and Mr Tushar Mehta, Solicitor General appearing for the Union Government, and Mr N Venkataraman, Additional Solicitor General appearing for AERA made the following submissions: a. An association representing the passengers may not necessarily prefer appeals in every case. While stakeholders may be allowed to make submissions before AERA in terms of Section 13(4), there is no statutory obligation on them to contest disputes 22 “Competition Act” 1418 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports or maintain appeals. AERA is concerned with the outcome of the decision by TDSAT on, inter alia, ‘tariff determination’ in its own interest as a regulatory body and in the interest of the general public; b. AERA will always be a contesting respondent when an appeal against its or direction is filed before TDSAT. It will be covered by the expression “parties to the appeal” in Section 18(5). However, it will not be a party to the dispute. It is to cover such situations that the “Authority” has been separately referred. This is evident from the expression “as the case may be” in the provision; c. AERA is not a quasi-judicial authority. It is a regulator which performs multiple functions other than determination of tariff; d. Even assuming that AERA is a quasi-judicial authority, the embargo that applies to judicial authorities, that they cannot contest an appeal against their own s, need not always apply to quasi-judicial authorities; e. A comparison cannot be made with Section 53T of the Competition Act.