The relevant extract of the communication reads as follows: “Therefore, keeping in view the position explained above, the State Government has decided not to accept the present recommendation for promotion of 13 Haryana Civil Service (Judicial Branch) Officers to the post of Additional District and Sessions Judges (ADSJ), as the State Government as well as the Central Government (Ministry of Law and Justice) have observed that the settled procedure under Article 233 read with Article 309 of the Constitution of India, i.e., Haryana Superior Judicial Service Rules, 2007 has not been followed while sending names to the Government for promotion. Hence, you are requested to send revised recommendations by following set procedures as per law.” 21. The petition before the High Court was amended so as to challenge the letter dated 12 September 2023. Other writ petitions were filed before the High Court by unsuccessful candidates, inter alia, seeking an restraining the State from accepting the recommendations made by the High Court and for quashing the Resolution of 30 November 2021, along with the recommendations for promotion of the petitioners. These candidates who had not been selected also sought a direction to the High Court, on its administrative side, to recommend candidates for promotion to the post of the District and Sessions Judges under Rule 6(1)(a) without observing the requirement of obtaining 50% marks each in the written examination and in the viva voce. The High Court, by its impugned dated 20 December 2023, disposed of the batch of petitions. The High Court directed the State of Haryana to take positive action to accept its recommendations which were made on 23 February 2023. 22. In the batch of appeals which have arisen before this Court, we have heard Mr P S Patwalia, Mr Shyan Divan and Mr Gopal [2024] 2 S.C.R. 1149 Dr Kavita Kamboj v. High Court of Punjab and Haryana & Ors Sankaranarayanan, senior counsel, who have appeared on behalf of the candidates who have not been recommended for appointment by the High Court. Mr Tushar Mehta, Solicitor General, has appeared on behalf of the State of Haryana in urging that the State Government was justified in rejecting the recommendations of the High Court. Mr Nidhesh Gupta, senior counsel, appears on behalf of the High Court. Mr Rameshwar Singh Malik, senior counsel, has supported the plea of the High Court, while appearing on behalf of the candidates who have been recommended for appointment. B. Submissions 23. Mr P S Patwalia, senior counsel, has basically urged the following submissions: (i) In terms of the of this Court in All India Judges’ Association v. Union of India5, the suitability of candidates for promotion as District Judges from amongst in-service candidates is required to be adjudged. Apart from the requirement of conducting a suitability test and a viva voce, Rule 6(1)(b) read with Rule 8 requires the ACRs of the preceding five years to be taken into consideration. The proforma of the ACRs contains an exhaustive elaboration of the criteria which are to be borne in mind while assessing a candidate.