“The discussion so far stresses on a “Rights based approach” so far as adolescents are concerned. We may sound narrow in our view, but the practicality of the facts is that a “Rights based approach” as a panacea for all the problems that come is not the solution, and in our view, not the just and correct approach. For conferring the Rights suggested in the aforesaid discussion on the “captioned group” i.e. adolescents between the age fold of 16 to 18 in “romantic relationship”, some test are to be satisfied first. Those are: i) Whether conferment of suggested Rights on the “captioned group” is/are in their best interest? 588 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports ii) Whether the captioned group has the discretion and maturity to use that Rights for their best interest? iii) Whether such rights at such age is conducive for over all development of their personality or it is destructive of their self development? iv) Who are the persons on whom such Rights are to be conferred, are they disciplined adolescents or a wayward lot, who have no control on their trivial urge to have sex? v) Whether conferment of such Rights on the captioned group is in the best interest of the society?” (para 29) iv. “To find answers to these tests opinions of some individuals, Rights activists, or view of so called liberals are not at all sufficient. [...]” (Para 29.1) v. “Fundamental Rights in the Constitution and various other Rights in different statutes have been given to individuals for a balance in society, to check arbitrariness of the Government and development of best self of an individual. If we go deep into our old texts, we find that Rights are not conferred but they are earned by action of an individual. If we look at Bentham’s theory, it is found that every right has corresponding duty/duties or obligation/ obligations. By performing the obligation, you have to earn the Right/Rights. It is somewhat similar to the old oriental philosophy “Do your duty and earn your Right.” (para 30) vi. “The principal androgenic steroid is testosterone, which is secreted primarily from the testes in men and ovaries in women and in small amounts from the adrenal glands, both in men and women. Hypothalamus and pituitary gland control the amount of testosterone, which is primarily responsible for sex urge and libido (in men). It’s existence is there [2024] 8 S.C.R. 589 In Re: Right To Privacy of Adolescents in the body, so when the respective gland becomes active by stimulation, sexual urge is aroused. But activation of the respective responsible gland is not automatic. It needs stimulation by our sights, hearing, reading erotic materials and conversation with opposite sex. So sexual urge is created by our own action. Sex in adolescents is normal but sexual urge or arousal of such urge is dependent on some action by the individual, may be a man or woman. Therefore, sexual urge is not at all normal and normative. If we stop some actions), arousal of sexual urge, as advocated in our discussion supra, ceases to be normal.” (Para 30.1) vii.