A Division Bench of the Delhi High Court in Saketh India (supra) considered the scope of Section 22(1) of the 1985 Act in the context of the object sought to be achieved by it and held that the term ‘suit for recovery’ as it appears in the said provision must be construed ejusdem generis, meaning thereby that only such a suit for recovery which is in the nature of execution or any other coercive enforcement will be suspended by the effect of the provision. The relevant parts of the said decision are extracted hereinbelow: “5. We think it appropriate, however, to consider the provision of SICA and analyse what it endeavours to achieve. We must immediately take note of the fact that SICA has been repealed by Sick Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Repeal Act, 2003. While it is yet to be notified, it is significant that provisions akin to Section 22 are conspicuous by their absence in the new Scheme of revival of sick companies inserted in form of Part VIA, namely, “Revival and Rehabilitation of Sick Industrial Companies”. 368 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Obviously, empirical analysis discloses that more often than not companies which have sought shelter of SICA have done so to procrastinate, delay and defer clearing its liability, with the obvious intention of coercing creditors into unfair settlements rather than implementing projected schemes supposed to assist in their reconstruction. When the statute is notified, amendments to the Companies Act, 1956 will become effective and all proceedings pending before BIFR will stand abated. To some extent, therefore, the present controversy has been rendered academic. 6. Courts, however, have always been alive to the possible mischief that invocation of SICA can lead to. In a nutshell, where the not worth of a company is reduced to a negative, and the amelioration that is sought is for reviving the company rather than winding it up, the recourse to the Act would be legitimate. There is no justifiable reason, therefore, for all legal proceedings to be immediately even held in abeyance, if not dismissed. We are mindful of the fact that Parliament has incorporated an amendment in the Section with effect from 1.2.1994 in these words — “no suit for the recovery of money or for the enforcement of any security against the industrial company or of any guarantee in respect of any loans or advance granted to the industrial company — shall lie or be proceeded with- further, except with the consent of the Board, or as the case may be, the Appellate Authority”. It appears to us that the phrase “recovery of money” must be construed ejusdem generis and accordingly recovery proceedings in the nature of execution or any other coercive enforcement that has been ordained to be not maintainable. We do not find any logic in holding legal proceedings to be not maintainable, or to be liable to be halted unless, even if the debt sought to be proved in the Plaint has not been admitted.