The right to shelter is one of the facets of Article 21. Depriving such innocent people of their right to life by removing shelter from their heads, in our considered view, would be wholly unconstitutional. 79. It was sought to be urged by the learned SG that most of the houses which were demolished were demolished since the constructions were found to be in breach of the local municipal laws. It was submitted that the houses were demolished since they are found to be in violation of either the provisions of municipal law governing them or the Panchayat laws governing such construction. 80. The learned SG submitted that in some cases it may be by sheer coincidence that the properties which were in breach of local municipal laws governing them also happen to belong to accused persons. He, 778 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports however, reiterated that it was the stand of various States that such properties can be demolished only in accordance with the procedure prescribed by law. 81. The position is disputed by the learned counsels appearing on behalf of the petitioners/applicants. It is stated that the chain of events clearly depicts that the demolition of the houses was an immediate reflection of the persons being implicated in crimes. It was submitted that the time gap between the person being named as an accused and demolition of his property/properties made it apparent that the punishment of demolition was inflicted by the executive on such person being arrayed as an accused. It was also submitted that in case of demolition of the property of an alleged accused, it is difficult to believe that only a single construction belonging to an accused is unauthorized construction, whereas all other structures in the vicinity are legal and authorized as per local laws. 82. Though the learned SG may be right in submitting that in some cases it may be by sheer coincidence that the properties which were in breach of local municipal laws governing them also happen to belong to the accused persons, however, when a particular structure is chosen all of a sudden for demolition and the rest of the similarly situated structures in the same vicinity are not even being touched, mala fide may loom large. In such cases, where the authorities indulge into arbitrary pick and choose of the structures and it is established that soon before initiation of such an action an occupant of the structure was found to be involved in a criminal case, a presumption could be drawn that the real motive for such demolition proceedings was not the illegal structure but an action of penalizing the accused without even trying him before the court of law. No doubt, such a presumption could be rebuttable. The authorities will have to satisfy the court that it did not intend to penalize a person accused by demolishing the structure. 83. While considering the issue with regard to the demolition of the houses which are required to be demolished for breach of the local laws, we find that the principle of the rule of law needs to be considered even in the municipal laws.