The Public Trust Doctrine evolved by this Court may also help identify resources which fall within the ambit of the phrase “material resource of the community”. [Para 229(e)] Held (per B.V. Nagarathna, J. ): 1. Articles 37, 38 and 39 of the Constitution of India which are part of the Directive Principles of State Policy have to be interpreted by bearing in mind the changing economic policies of the State and not in a rigid watertight compartment. The flexibility of interpretation is having regard to the dynamic changes in the Indian socio-economic policies meant for the welfare and progress of the people of India. An interpretation of the aforesaid Articles or for that matter any other provision of the Constitution must be viewed in the historical backdrop of the period in which the interpretation was made by this Court during the course of adjudication. Any interpretation which was found to be sound and in consonance with the socio-economic policy of the State during a particular period of time, cannot be critiqued at a later point of time in any quarter including by a court of law merely because the socio- economic policies of the State have changed over a period of time or there is a paradigm shift in the thinking and policies of the State. [Para 22(I)] 2. Articles 37 and 38 of the Constitution have to be borne in mind by the Courts while considering the validity of any policy or statute which intend to further any of the Directive Principles of State Policy. [Para 22(II)] 3. Article 39(b) has to be read in the context of Article 39(c). Articles 39(b) and (c) supplement and complement each other and cannot be construed in silos. Article 39(b) comprises of 14 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports following five components, namely, (i) ownership and control; (ii) material resources; (iii) of the community; (iv) so distributed; and (v) as best to subserve the common good. (i) The expression “ownership and control” must be given its widest connotation in the context of “distribution of” “material resources of the community” “as best to subserve the common good”. (ii) “Material resources” can in the first instance be divided into two basic categories, namely, (i) State owned resources which belong to the State which are essentially material resources of the community, held in public trust by the State; and (ii) privately owned resources. However, the expression “material resources” does not include “personal effects” or “personal belonging” of individuals, such as, clothing or apparel, household articles, personal jewellery and other articles of daily use belonging to the individuals of a household and which are intimate and personal in nature and use. Excluding “personal effects”, all other privately owned resources can be construed as “material resources”. Thus, all resources whether they are public resources or privately owned resources which come within the scope and ambit of the expression “material resources” as stated above are included within that expression. (iii) “Material resources” which are privately owned could be transformed as “material resources of the community”, inter alia, in the following five ways: a. by nationalisation, which could be either by way of an enactment made by the Parliament or a State legislature or in any other manner in accordance with law; b. by acquisition, which could be by way of a special enactment made by the Parliament or a State legislature having regard to Entry 42 – List III of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution.