When substantial judicial time and resources are spent on references, the same should not be made in a casual or cavalier manner. It is only when a proposition is contradicted by a subsequent of the same Bench, or it is shown that the proposition laid down has become unworkable or contrary to a well- established principle, that a reference will be made to a larger Bench. In this context, a five-Judge Bench of this Court in Chandra Prakash v. State of U.P. [(2002) 4 SCC 234 : 2002 SCC (Cri) 496: 2002 SCC (L&S) 496], after considering series of earlier rulings reiterated that: (SCC p. 245, para 22) “22. … The doctrine of binding precedent is of utmost importance in the administration of our judicial system. It promotes certainty and consistency in judicial decisions. Judicial consistency promotes confidence in the system, therefore, there is this need for consistency in the enunciation of legal principles in the decisions of this Court.” 24. The above exposition of law makes it clear that the doctrines of binding Precedents and Stare decisis, as also the judicial discipline and propriety, developed over the years, warrant that the decision of larger Bench should be followed by the smaller Bench. If the smaller bench had any doubt or disagreement with a decision 1602 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of the larger bench, it could refer the same for reconsideration to the larger bench, however,after setting out the reasons and justification as to why it could not agree or follow the decision of earlier larger Bench. Such disagreement also has to be based on some justifiable reasons, like where the earlier decision of larger Bench is found to be manifestly wrong or where the contextual values giving birth to the earlier view had altered substantially etc. A casual exercise of power to refer the matter to the larger Bench without recording any reason or on the ground that the view placed before it later seems to be more reasonable, may incidentally tend to make law uncertain and introduce confusion, which must be avoided. 25. In the instant case, the reference was made by Three-Judge Bench to the larger Bench for revisitation of the earlier decision of Constitution Bench in E.V. Chinnaiah, without assigning any reason and in a very casual and cavalier manner, and that too after fifteen years of its attaining finality. Such reference could not and should not have been countenanced by the subsequent Five-Judge Bench for reference to the Seven-Judge Bench. When a law was settled by the previous Constitution Bench in E.V. Chinnaiah after considering all the previous s including Indra Sawhney, and after investing substantial judicial time and resources, and when the same had held the field for a substantially long period of fifteen years, in my opinion, the very reference by the Three-Judge Bench to the larger bench for reconsideration of the decision in E.V. Chinnaiah, that too without assigning any reason was inappropriate and not in consonance with the well settled doctrines of Precedents and Stare decisis.