In the present case between 4-3-1992 and 31-12-1992 the appellant had booked rakes for carrying coal to Gurla. 1100 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports A sum of Rs. 3,56,69,671 which had been collected from the appellant over a period of time by mistake. That the mistake has been committed is admitted by the respondent herein and it is has duly been noted by the High Court. However, the High Court, in our view, erroneously rejected the claim on the ground of availability of alternative remedy. On the aforesaid premises the High Court dismissed the wirt petition with the direction to the appellant to approach the Railway Claims Tribunal for alternative remedy provided under Section 13 of the Railway Claims Tribunal Act, 1987 (hereinafter “the Act”). 5. We are clearly of the view that as the respondent Union of India has clearly admitted the liability, the High Court ought not to have relegated the appellant to its alternative remedy and should not have dismissed the writ petition on that count. There is no disputed question of fact in this case. As already noted, in the present case the respondent had admitted its liability and, therefore, the question raised before the High Court being an admitted fact the High Court ought not to have directed the appellant to resort to its alternative remedy under the Act. 6. In the aforesaid premises, we set aside the impugned of the High Court. This appeal is allowed. No costs. The respondents are directed to pay the admitted liability along with interest at the rate of 6% p.a. with effect from 6-1-1993 till payment is made within three months from today.” (Emphasis supplied) 53. In Union of India & Ors. v. West Coast Paper Mills Ltd. & Anr. reported in (2004) 3 SCC 458, the prescribed rate that was being charged as per law by the railways had been declared to be illegal. This Court held that any claim of refund of such charge which is illegal cannot be said to be an overcharge and thus does not attract Section 78B of the Act, 1890. This Court explained that an overcharge is something in excess of what is due according to law, an overcharge must be of the same genus or class as a charge, and it does not include a sum that was collected but was not due. The relevant observations read as under: - [2024] 3 S.C.R. 1101 Union of India v. M/s Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. “19. The term overcharge is not defined in the Act. In its dictionary meaning “overcharge” means “a charge of a sum, more than is permitted by law” (see: Aiyar, P. Ramanatha: The Law Lexicon, 1997 Edn., p. 1389). The term came up for the consideration of the High Court of Gujarat in Shah Raichand Amulakh v. Union of India. Chief Justice P.N. Bhagwati (as His Lordship then was) interpreted the term by holding that “overcharge” is not a term of art. It is an ordinary word of the English language which according to its plain natural sense means any charge in excess of that prescribed or permitted by law.