• The Collector and District Magistrate was nominated as the Competent Authority for transfer of the government land to the land bank in consultation with concerned government departments. • The Collector and District Magistrate would also be competent to acquire private land for public purposes, after examining [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1375 State of Andhra Pradesh and Others v. Dr. Rao, V.B.J. Chelikani and Others the demand and after consulting the agencies in-charge of the land bank. • Each category of land was to be treated as a distinct entity till the same was alienated to the applicant. The objective was to plough back the cost of land acquisition. • The Empowered Committee chaired by the Chief Commissioner of Land Administration and comprising five members was vested with the power to decide allotment of the land, its apportionment and its use, based upon the hierarchy of needs, and submit proposals to the Government. • The designated officers who would be the members of the Empowered Committee, while recommending allotment of land in favour of the Cooperative Societies, would also recommend the price to be fixed for the land proposed for allotment. • The recommended price was to be fixed after taking into account the acquisition cost of land, activity of the beneficiary institution and demand for the land. • Separate s were to be issued on the methodology to be adopted for selecting the housing society/institution for allotment of land from the land bank; deciding conditions of allotment; and ownership rights. 7. On 28.02.2005, GoM No. 243 was also issued. It stated that land from the land bank could be allotted for housing and institutional purposes. For housing, the Government encouraged allocation of land for independent housing sites in areas where such housing schemes were prevalent, and for the construction of flats in regions where flats were established. The key stipulations of the GoM are outlined below: • The Government might alienate lands, preferably for construction of flats in view of land scarcity, in the Municipal Corporation of Hyderabad, Warangal, Vijayawada, Guntur, Rajahmundry, Visakhapatnam, Kurnool and Nellore. • Land was not to be allotted to individual beneficiaries, but to groups or Cooperative Societies of which the beneficiaries would be members. 1376 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports • A Cooperative Society or group was to have a minimum of 12 eligible members. • The applications for allotment of flat/housing site were to be made to the Collector and District Magistrate, who in turn had to obtain necessary approval for land allotment from the Empowered Committee and the Government. • The Collector was to be nominated as the Nodal Authority and was tasked with the duty to make the Scheme operational. • For allotment of the land to institutions, the Collector was to submit the proposal to the Empowered Committee. • The allotment for the Cooperative Societies comprising Judges, MPs, MLAs, officers of the AIS, officers of the Andhra Pradesh cadre, officers of other State cadres who were natives of Andhra Pradesh and who had worked on deputation with the Andhra Pradesh Government, officers of the Government of Andhra Pradesh, and journalists, would be in satellite towns of Hyderabad and Ranga Reddy districts.