No further argument is [2024] 11 S.C.R. 157 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. needed to conclude that Article 39(b) is ample enough to rope in buses. The motor vehicles are part of the material resources of the operators.” (emphasis supplied) 183. The next part of Article 39(b) that Justice Krishna Iyer discussed, in his concurring opinion, is the term “distribution”. More specifically, the opinion explores whether “nationalisation”can be understood to be a form of “distribution” which subserves the “common good”. Justice Krishna Iyer held that a narrow interpretation cannot be given to the term. After referring to the dictionary definition of the term ‘distribution’, it was observed that the nationalisation of resources, which essentially entails classifying and allocating industries/ services/utilities between the private and public sectors, is a form of ‘distribution’. Moreover, nationalisation has been held to be a distributive process which is for the “good of the community”. The observations are reproduced below. “82. The next question is whether nationalisation can have nexus with distribution. Should we assign a narrow or spacious sense to this concept? Doubtless, the latter, for reasons so apparent and eloquent. To “distribute”, even in its simple dictionary meaning, is to “allot, to divide into classes or into groups” and “distribution” embraces “arrangement, classification, placement, disposition, apportionment, the way in which items, a quantity, or the like, is divided or apportioned; the system of dispersing goods throughout a community”. (See Random House Dictionary). To classify and allocate certain industries or services or utilities or articles between the private and public sectors of the national economy is to distribute those resources. Socially conscious economists will find little difficulty in treating nationalisation of transport as a distributive process for the good of the community. You cannot condemn the concept of nationalisation in our Plan on the score that Article 39(b) does not envelop it. It is a matter of public policy left to legislative wisdom whether a particular scheme of take-over should be undertaken.” 158 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 184. The next decision with a bearing on the interpretation of Article 39(b) is Bhim Singhji. As briefly discussed earlier,a five-judge Constitution bench of this Court adjudicated on the constitutionality of the Urban Land (Ceiling and Regulation) Act 1976. The legislation inter alia provided for the imposition of a ceiling on vacant land in urban agglomerations and for the acquisition of land in excess of the ceiling limit, to prevent the concentration of urban land in the hands of a few. Chief Justice YV Chandrachud, Justice Bhagwati, Justice Krishna Iyer and Justice Sen, constituting a majority of four judges held that the Act gave effect to the principles laid down in Articles 39(b) and (c), and, thus was protected by Article 31-C.Initially, when the judgement was pronounced, Chief Justice YV Chandrachud (for himself and Justice Bhagwati) authored a short stating that detailed reasons would follow. Eventually, Chief Justice YV Chandrachud (for himself and Justice Bhagwati) issued an stating that the learned judges agreed with the reasons stated in the opinion of Justice Krishna Iyer.132 Justice Sen concurred with the majority on the question of whether the Act was in furtherance of Articles 39(b) and (c) but disagreed on some other aspects.