On going through the above extract from the impugned , it is evident that the High Court recorded an affirmative finding that the offending truck was parked in the middle of the road. This finding as borne out from the evidence is not under challenge and has attained finality. The accident took place on 18th August, 2013 which as per 436 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the Hindu calendar fell on Shukla Paksha Dwadashi, and thus, there was not even a remote possibility that the road would be illuminated by moonlight at the time of the accident. The discussion of evidence by the Tribunal and the High Court makes no reference to availability of streetlights at the collision site and hence, there is no doubt that at the time of the accident, the conditions on the road would have been pitch dark making it virtually impossible for the incoming vehicles to sight the stationary offending truck within a reasonable distance. 24. Learned counsel for the appellant-claimants, urged that there is neither any evidence nor any finding by the Courts below that the offending truck was parked on the road after taking due care and caution i.e. either by switching on the parking lights or by putting any prominent markers around the vehicle so as to warn the passing vehicles. Apparently thus, the offending truck was left abandoned in the middle of the highway (as concurrently held by both the Courts below) without taking due care and caution to switch on the parking lights or to put in place any other precautionary measures to warn the vehicles traversing the highway in the dead of the night. 25. Common sense requires that no vehicle can be left parked and unattended in the middle of the road as it would definitely be a traffic hazard posing risk to the other road users. 26. We shall briefly refer to the statutory provisions applicable to the situation at hand. 27. A highway or a road is a public place as defined in Section 2(34) of the Act: - “2(34) “public place” means a road, street, way or other place, whether a thoroughfare or not, to which the public have a right of access, and includes any place or stand at which passengers are picked up or set down by a stage carriage;” 28. Section 121 of the Act provides that the driver of a motor vehicle shall make such signals and, on such occasions, as may be prescribed by the Central Government. 29. Section 122 of the Act provides that no person in charge of a motor vehicle shall cause or allow the vehicle or any trailer to be abandoned or to remain at rest on any “public place” in such a position or in [2024] 9 S.C.R. 437 Sushma v. Nitin Ganapati Rangole & Ors. such a condition or in such circumstances so as to cause or likely to cause danger, obstruction or undue inconvenience to other users of the public place or to the passengers.