In this vein, he assailed that the Appellant was arrested without giving any reasons, thus violating the: (i) precondition of just and valid reasons for the change of a case from ‘non-arrest’ to ‘arrest’ under Section 41A (3) of the CrPC; and (ii) the mandatory details that have to be fulfilled under Section 41(1)(b)(ii), to satisfy that the arrest fell within the purview of any of the clauses (a) to (e). Considering that none of these stipulations were complied with, the Appellant’s arrest is fraught with illegality. 5. Dr. Singhvi drew our attention to the High Court having erred in misapplying the provision of Section 41(2) of the CrPC to justify the non-compliances of Section 41(1)(b)(ii) of the CrPC and consequential arrest of the Appellant. He highlighted that Section 41(2) is attracted only to non-cognizable offences, whereas the arrest of the Appellant was made in a case of cognizable offence. This was fortified by contending that none of the applications moved by the CBI seeking remand, sought to invoke Section 41(2). These violations, Learned Senior Counsel contended, were squarely against the dictum of this 1 Arvind Kejriwal v. Directorate of Enforcement, Criminal Appeal No. 2493/2024 694 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Court in Arnesh Kumar v. State of Bihar 2 and a plethora of other subsequent decisions. 6. Dr. Singhvi further argued that the Appellant deserves to be granted bail, as his continued incarceration is not necessitated, given that the entire material is in the safe custody of the CBI. He also emphasized that the Appellant has been granted both interim and regular bail in the ED matter by this Court, where the conditions are stricter, thus demonstrating that he would invariably meet the threshold explicated by the ‘triple test’ in the CBI matter as well: he has no criminal antecedents, is not a flight risk, and poses no threat of tampering with witnesses or evidence. He also assailed that the High Court ought not to have relegated the Appellant to the Trial Court, considering that it exercises concurrent jurisdiction under Section 439 of the CrPC. This measure, he underscored, was akin to taking the Appellant back to square one, leading to a travesty of justice and unwarranted delay in the adjudication of his bail application. 7. Lastly, Dr. Singhvi drew our attention to the fact that the trial was not likely to be concluded in the near future, as the FIR was registered on 17.08.2022, with one chargesheet and three supplementary chargesheets having been filed, 17 accused persons arraigned, as many as 224 witnesses cited and the physical and digital records running into lakhs of pages. Further, the fourth supplementary charge sheet was filed on 29.07.2024, cognizance of which was taken only recently, and which was yet to be supplied to the Appellant. These reasons, he contended, irrefutably validated his apprehension of reasonable delay in the conclusion of trial. 8. Per contra, Mr. S.V. Raju, Learned Additional Solicitor General of India argued that the arrest of the Appellant had been conducted in due compliance with the statutory procedure as contemplated in Section 41(1) and 41A of the CrPC.