[take possession of any land needed for a public purpose]. Such land shall thereupon vest absolutely in the [Government], free from all encumbrances. 11 17. Special powers in case of urgency. – (4) In the case of any land to which, in the opinion of the [appropriate Government], the provisions of sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) are applicable, the [appropriate Government] may direct that the provisions of section 5A shall not apply, and, if it does so direct, a declaration may be made under section 6 in respect of the land at any time [after the date of the publication of the notification] under section 4, sub-section (1). [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1071 Kali Charan and Others v. State of U.P. and Others notifies for the information of the general public that the land mentioned in the Schedule below shall be earmarked for public purposes, namely, the Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority in District Gautam Budh Nagar for Planned Development. Because the Governor is of the opinion that the provisions or sub-section (1) of section 17 of the said Act apply to the said land, because the said land is urgently needed for planned development in district Gautam Buddha Nagar through Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority and in view of this urgency, it is also necessary that the possible delay in conducting the Investigation under Section 5-A of the said Act should be avoided. Therefore, the Governor also directs under sub-section (4) of Section 17 of the said Act that the provisions of Section 5-A of the said Act shall not apply.” (emphasis supplied) 16. Since the land was sought to be acquired by invoking urgency provisions under Sections 17(1) and 17(4) of the Act, the landowners made representations to the Chief Executive Officer(‘CEO’) of YEIDA requesting that their land may not be acquired because the status of the land was ‘Abadi Bhoomi’ which was being used by the landowners as dwelling units and for rearing their cattle. The functionaries/authorities concerned did not accede to the request of the landowners and the State Government issued the notification dated 19th February, 2010 under Section 6 of the Act. 17. The landowners challenged the acquisition of their lands by filing numerous writ petitions before the Allahabad High Court, primarily seeking the relief of quashing the acquisition proceedings undertaken by invoking Sections 4 and 6 read with Sections 17(1) and 17(4) of the Act on several grounds which may be broadly categorized as below:- (i) That the State Government arbitrarily invoked Section 17(1) and Section 17(4) of the Act and deprived the landowners of their valuable right to raise objections under Section 5-A of the Act. 1072 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (ii) That a bare reading of the notification issued under Section 4 would reflect that there was no material with the State Government for invoking the urgency clause in the matter of acquisition of land for planned development. (iii) That there was no genuine public purpose behind the acquisition and thus, the impugned action was illegal, arbitrary and unjustified.