Any other transaction means a transaction which is not covered by clauses (a) to (e). Clause (f) covers all those transactions not covered by any of these sub-clauses of sub- section (8) that satisfy the test in the first part of Section 8. The condition for the applicability of clause (f) is that the transaction must have the commercial effect of borrowing. “Transaction” has been defined in sub-section (33) of Section 3 of the IBC, which includes an agreement or arrangement in writing for the transfer of assets, funds, goods, etc., from or to the corporate debtor. In this case, there is an arrangement in writing for the transfer of funds to the corporate debtor. Therefore, the first condition incorporated in clause (f) is fulfilled. 17. To decide whether the second condition had been fulfilled, it is necessary to refer to the factual findings recorded in the impugned . The NCLAT has referred to the letter dated 26th October 2017 addressed by the corporate debtor to the first respondent. We have perused a copy of the said letter annexed to the counter. By the said letter, the corporate debtor informed the first respondent that for the year 2016-2017, the corporate debtor had provided the interest amounting to Rs.18,06,000/- in the books of the corporate debtor and that the sum will be credited to the account of the first respondent on the date of payment of TDS. In paragraph 21 of the impugned , it is held that the financial statement of the first respondent for the Financial Year 2017-2018 shows revenue from the interest on the security deposit. It is also held that the amounts were treated as long-term loans and advances in the financial statement of the corporate debtor for the Financial Year 2015-2016. Moreover, in the financial statement of the corporate debtor for the Financial Year 2016-17, the amounts paid by the first respondent were shown as “other long-term liabilities”. Therefore, if the letter mentioned above and the financial statements of the corporate [2024] 5 S.C.R. 239 Global Credit Capital Limited & Anr. v. Sach Marketing Pvt. Ltd. & Anr debtor are considered, it is evident that the amount raised under the said two agreements has the commercial effect of borrowing as the corporate debtor treated the said amount as borrowed from the first respondent. CONCLUSION 18. Therefore, we have no hesitation in concurring with the NCLAT’s view that the amounts covered by security deposits under the agreements constitute financial debt. As it is a financial debt owed by the first respondent, sub-section (7) of Section 5 of the IBC makes the first respondent a financial creditor. 19. The contracts subject matter of the Civil Appeal Nos. 6991 to 6994 of 2022 are in the form of letters, which provide for similar clauses as in the case of agreements subject matter of Civil Appeal No. 1143 of 2022. SUMMARY 20. Subject to what is held above, we summarize our legal conclusions: a. There cannot be a debt within the meaning of sub-section (11) of section 5 of the IB Code unless there is a claim within the meaning of sub-section (6) of section 5 of thereof; b.