[(1993) 4 SCC 441] and Special Reference No. 1 of 1998, Re [(1998) 7 SCC 739].” 14. The above view where the Court distinguished between ‘eligibility’ and ‘suitability’ has been consistently followed12 in subsequent decisions of this Court including in the recent decision in Anna Mathews v Supreme Court of India13 where it was noted as under: “10. We are clearly of the opinion that this Court, while exercising power of judicial review cannot issue a writ of certiorari quashing the recommendation, or mandamus calling upon the Collegium of the Supreme Court to reconsider its decision, as this would be contrary to the ratio and dictum of the earlier decisions of this Court referred to above, which are binding on us. To do so would violate the law as declared, as it would amount to evaluating and substituting the decision of the Collegium, with individual or personal opinion on the suitability and merits of the person.” 12 Manohar Reddy and Anr. v. Union of India (2013) 3 SCC 99, Registrar General, Madras High Court v. R. Gandhi (2014) 11 SCC 547, Common Cause v. Union of India (2018) 12 SCC 377 13 [2023] 1 SCR 463 : (2023) 5 SCC 661 [2024] 9 S.C.R. 161 Chirag Bhanu Singh & Anr. v. High Court of Himachal Pradesh & Ors. 15. The following position emerges as a result of the above: i) ‘Lack of effective consultation’ and ‘eligibility’ falls within the scope of judicial review. ii) ‘Suitability’ is non-justiciable and resultingly, the ‘content of consultation’ falls beyond the scope of judicial review. 16. The above legal position clearly suggests that the absence of consultation amongst the members of the Collegium would be within the limited purview of judicial review. Proceeding on this understanding, this Court had issued notice to the Registrar General to ascertain whether the High Court Collegium adhered to the procedural requirement of an ‘effective consultation’ for the reconsideration exercise. The Chief Justice of the High Court, it was submitted had never received the Resolution of the Supreme Court Collegium. It was therefore argued that perusing the Resolution of the Supreme Court was essential for the respective counsel to make their submissions. As earlier noted, a copy of the resolution (dated 4th January 2024) was produced in Court and the same was allowed to be perused by the respective counsel for the parties. 17. The aforesaid re-consideration resolution was requisitioned only for factual determination as to whether ‘effective consultation’ was made, in terms of the resolution of the SC Collegium. This scrutiny has nothing to do with the ‘merits’ or the ‘suitability’ of the officers in question but to verify whether ‘effective consultation’ was made. Such scrutiny is permissible within the limited scope of judicial review as discussed before. Therefore, the present writ petition for this limited scrutiny is found to be maintainable. Issue B 18. The second issue that falls for our consideration is whether elevation for judgeship in the High Court has to be considered collectively by the Collegium of the High Court or whether the Chief Justice acting individually can reconsider the same.