1341 State of Uttar Pradesh and Anr. v. Virendra Bahadur Katheria and Ors. cannot sustain being erroneous in law. We say so for the reason that the final and binding between the parties is the one dated 08.12.2010, passed by this Court. 45. We may now advert to the observations made by the High Court regarding the State allegedly rendering its dated 06.05.2002 nugatory through its executive actions. The High Court, as a matter of principle, has rightly held that the State has no authority whatsoever to annul a Court decision through its administrative fiat. Even legislative power cannot be resorted to, to overrule a binding judicial dictum, except that the legislature can remove the basis on which such is founded upon. However, these settled principles may not be attracted to the facts and circumstances of the instant case. 46. It goes without saying that the 2011 was issued by the State after this Court’s acknowledgement of the Proposed Policy initiated to rectify the pay scale anomaly. This Court, upon review, did not find fault with the proposed measures and instead, deemed them appropriate for addressing the prevailing pay discrepancy. Thus, the measures taken by the State were in deference to and not in defiance of this Court’s s. To the extent above, the view taken by the High Court is legally and factually incorrect. 47. Regardless to what has been held above, we are in agreement with the Learned Single Judge that the pay benefits which had been released to the writ petitioners arrayed before it, and who had meanwhile retired from service, ought not to have been withdrawn and that too with the added measure of recovery s being fastened upon them. Such a recourse to effect recovery initiated by the State is contrary to the principles evolved by this Court in State of Punjab v Rafique Masih (White Washer) and others,5 wherein recovery from retired employees or employees who are due to retire within one year of the of such recovery, did not get the seal of approval. Thus, to this limited context, the Single Judge’s direction deserves to be upheld. ed accordingly. 48. Turning to the impugned passed by the Division Bench of the High Court and as already recounted in the facts, the State’s intra-court appeal has been dismissed on account of the inordinate 5 [2014] 13 SCR 1343 : (2015) 4 SCC 334 1342 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports delay of 428 days in filing. The Division Bench observed that the plea taken by the State regarding movement of the file from one desk to another, particularly in the backdrop of the undertaking provided during the contempt proceedings, did not constitute sufficient ground(s) to condone the delay. The Division Bench accordingly rejected the application for condonation of delay and consequently dismissed the appeal. 49. It is an admitted fact that the State authorities failed to avail their remedy of intra-court appeal within a reasonable time. It was only when contempt proceedings were slapped on them that the authorities woke up and filed the appeal, which, by that time, was highly belated.