If those facts are disputed and require assessment of evidence the correctness of which can only be tested satisfactorily by talking detailed evidence, involving examination and cross-examination of witnesses, the case could not be conveniently or satisfactorily decided in proceedings under Article 226 of the Constitution. Such proceedings are summary proceedings reserved for extraordinary cases where the exceptional and what are described as, perhaps not quite accurately, “prerogative” powers of the Court are invoked. We are certain that the cases before us are not such in which powers under Article 226 of the Constitution could be invoked.” (Emphasis supplied) 37. Similar view as above, was reiterated by this Court in Premji Bhai Parmar & Ors. v. Delhi Development & Ors. reported in (1980) 2 SCC 129 at para 8 and in Divisional Forest Officer v. Bishwanath Tea Co. Ltd. reported in (1981) 3 SCC 238 wherein it was held that any right to relief flowing from a breach of contract cannot be entertained under the extraordinary writ jurisdiction of the court, even if the action of the State or its instrumentality was unauthorized in law. The relevant observations read as under: - “9. Ordinarily, where a breach of contract is complained of, a party complaining of such breach may sue for specific performance of the contract, if contract is capable of being specifically performed, or the party may sue for damages. Such a suit would ordinarily be cognizable by the civil [2024] 7 S.C.R. 559 Subodh Kumar Singh Rathour v. The Chief Executive Officer & Ors. court. The High Court in its extraordinary jurisdiction would not entertain a petition either for specific performance of contract or for recovering damages. A right to relief flowing from a contract has to be claimed in a civil court where a suit for specific performance of contract or for damages could be filed. This is so well-settled that no authority is needed. 10. In substance, this was a suit for refund of a royalty alleged to be unauthorisedly recovered and that could hardly be entertained in exercise of the writ jurisdiction of the High Court.” (Emphasis supplied) 38. We do not propose to dwell any further, on the position of law that existed earlier, and leave it at rest with one last reference to the decision of this Court in Bareilly Development Authority & Anr. v. Ajai Pal Singh & Ors. reported in (1989) 2 SCC 116, wherein this Court once again reiterated that no writ can be issued in contractual disputes between the State and an aggrieved party where the rights or claims arise or stem only from the terms of the contract. The relevant observations read as under: - “22. There is a line of decisions where the contract entered into between the State and the persons aggrieved is non- statutory and purely contractual and the rights are governed only by the terms of the contract, no writ or can be issued under Article 226 of the Constitution of India so as to compel the authorities to remedy a breach of contract pure and simple [...]” (Emphasis supplied) 39.