Grade/Grade “C”) i.e. on completion of 23 years (8+1O+5years) then he would get 3rd financial upgradation after completion of 30 years i.e. 10 years after the 2nd ACP in the PB-ll in the Grade Pay of Rs.4600. B. If a Government servant (LDC) in PB-I in the Grade Pay of Rs.1900 is granted 1 st financial upgradation under the MACPS on completion of 10 years of service in the PB-l in the Grade Pay of Rs.2000 and 5 years later he gets 1 st regular promotion (UDC) in PB-I in the Grade Pay of Rs.2400, the 2nd financial upgradation under MACPS (in the next Grade Pay w.r.t. Grade Pay held by Government servant) will be granted on completion of 20 years of service in PB-I in the Grade Pay of Rs.2800. On completion of 30 years of service, he will get 3rd ACP in the Grade Pay of Rs. 4200. However, if two promotions are earned before completion of 20 years, only 3 rd financial upgradation would be admissible on completion of 10 years of service in Grade Pay from the date 2nd promotion or at 30th year of service, whichever is earlier. C. If a Government servant has been granted either two regular promotions or 2nd financial upgradation under the ACP Scheme of August, 1999 after completion of 24 years of regular service then only 3rd financial upgradation would be admissible to him under the MACPS on completion of 30 years of service provided that he has not earned third promotion in the hierarchy.” 13. A careful reading of the aforesaid clauses/provisions reflects the objective purpose of the MACPS, that is, that an employee should not remain stagnant in the same pay scale/Grade Pay for periods of 10, 20 or 30 years. In such cases, the employee would be entitled to financial upgradation to the immediate next higher Grade Pay, as mentioned in Section 1, Part-A of the first Schedule to the CCS [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1529 Union of India & Ors. v. N.M. Raut & Ors. RP Rules. Emphasis in clause 1 is on the expression “Grade Pay”. Clause 2, similarly, states that the benefit under the MACPS is available where the eligible employee has not got regular promotion. In such cases, he/she will be given financial upgradation. However, such financial upgradation is not the same as a pay-scale/Grade Pay, which is applicable to the next promotional post in the hierarchy of the concerned cadre/ organization. 14. Clause 5 states that the promotions earned/financial upgradations granted under the ACPS in the past shall be taken into account, but where there has been a merger of pay-scales/upgradation of posts recommended by the Sixth CPC, they shall be ignored for the purpose of granting upgradation under the MACPS. This has been explained by given examples A and B, which we have quoted above. At this stage, we would like to clarify that clause 5 will not be applicable to the cases in question. This is not a case of merger of pay-scales or upgradation of posts.