The above quoted provisions contained in sub-rule (2) of Rule 66 of XXI CPC clearly mandates that the sale proclamation should mention the estimated value of the property and such estimated value can also be given under Rule 54 XXI CPC. The fact that the Court is also entitled to enter in the proclamation of sale its own estimate of the value of the property clearly demonstrates that whenever the attached immovable property is to be sold in public auction the value thereof is required to be estimated. In between Rule 54 to Rule 66 of XXI CPC, there is no other provision requiring assessment of value of the property to be sold in auction. 22. It is also important to bear in mind the provisions contained in Rule 54(1) XXI read with Rule 66 of XXI CPC wherein it is provided that either whole of the attached property or such portion thereof as may seem necessary to satisfy the decree shall be sold in auction. If there is no valuation of the property in the attachment Panchanama and there being no separate provision for valuation of the property put to auction, it is to be understood that the valuation of the property mentioned in attachment Panchanama prepared under Rule 54 can always provide the estimated value of the property 648 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports otherwise the provisions enabling the court to auction only a part of the property which would be sufficient to satisfy the decree would be unworkable or redundant. In the case in hand, the assessed value of all the attached properties is Rs. 1,05,700/- whereas the original decretal sum was Rs. 27,694/- which is about 26.2% of the total value of the property. Therefore, when only one of the attached properties was sufficient to satisfy the decree there was no requirement for effecting the sale of the entire attached properties. 23. In the matter of Balakrishnan vs. Malaiyandi Konar11 this Court observed thus: “9. The provision contains some significant words. They are “necessary to satisfy the decree”. Use of the said expression clearly indicates the legislative intent that no sale can be allowed beyond the decretal amount mentioned in the sale proclamation. (See Takkaseela Pedda Subba Reddi v. Pujari Padmavathamma [(1977) 3 SCC 337: AIR 1977 SC 1789].) In all execution proceedings, the court has to first decide whether it is necessary to bring the entire property to sale or such portion thereof as may seem necessary to satisfy the decree. If the property is large and the decree to be satisfied is small the court must bring only such portion of the property, the proceeds of which would be sufficient to satisfy the claim of the decree-holder. It is immaterial whether the property is one or several. Even if the property is one, if a separate portion could be sold without violating any provision of law only such portion of the property should be sold. This is not just a discretion, but an obligation imposed on the court.