Further, it was directed to pay Rs. 5000/- to the appellants towards compensation for mental agony and harassment as also Rs. 2000/- towards costs. Aggrieved by the of the District Forum, the respondent herein/the opponent therein filed an appeal viz. appeal No. 464 of 2002 before the State Commission. The State Commission dismissed the appeal as per dated 25.07.2006 against which the respondent herein filed a revision petition before the National Commission in terms of the provisions of the Section 21 (b) of the Act. The impugned was passed thereon and it resulted in reversal of the concurrent s of the forums below and dismissal of the complaint. 4. Heard, learned counsel for the appellant and also the learned Senior Counsel appearing for the respondent. The factum of submission of proposal for Life Insurance Policy on 06.07.1996 by the deceased and also issuance of cheque bearing No. 1870092 therewithal towards premium are not in dispute. The allotment of policy No. 832471906, rather its blocking in the name of the deceased is also not in dispute. The contention of the appellants before the District Forum was that the respondent had accepted the first premium amount and issued [2024] 6 S.C.R. 457 Mrs. Bhumikaben N. Modi & Ors. v. Life Insurance Corporation of India Acceptance-cum-First Premium Receipt on 09.07.1996 and in view of the nature of the receipt issued the respondent could not have repudiated the claim and wriggled out of the liability to assume the risk. 5. Per contra, the respondent took the stand that the policy prepared was not actually communicated to the deceased and it was blocked on 15.07.1996 owing to the demise of the proposer Shri Narender Kumar Kantilal Modi. Further, it was contended that in the aforesaid circumstances there was no concluded contract between the deceased and the respondent. It is to be noted that even after taking such a stand the respondent offered Rs. 1 Lakh on ex gratia basis to the appellants. However, the appellants refused to accept the same and claimed the amount payable in terms of the terms and conditions in Policy No. 832471906. Obviously, the District Forum took note of the rival factual contentions and also the further fact of payment of commission in respect of the policy to the agent and consequently, the defence raised on behalf of the respondent herein to justify that the repudiation of the claim was rejected and the complaint was allowed. 6. In the appeal before the State Commission, the respondent reiterated the contentions unsuccessfully taken before the District Forum. As noticed before, the core contention was that on the date of death of “the deceased” there was no concluded contract between the insurer and the deceased. The contentions raised did not find favour with the State Commission and the State Commission found that the acceptance of the proposal was unconditional and in favour of the deceased and therefore the contract should relate back to the date from which the insurance coverage was granted i.e., w.e.f.