[Para 266] 4. The minority community may conceptualize the idea of an institution and may advocate for the same, however, if during exchange or negotiation, the actual institution which was established had primacy of governmental efforts and control, then such institution cannot be held to be predominantly established by the efforts and actions of the minority community. [Para 266] 5. In the pre-independence and pre-UGC era, in the absence of a provision like Section 23 of the UGC Act, 1956, it was open for any institutions to adopt the titles such as ‘university’ or in some cases ‘vidyapeeth’ or ‘jamia’ asserting their capability to grant degrees – The absence of a legislative embargo from private establishment of Universities prior to 1956 would be critical for the scope of enquiry. [Para 266] 6. The use of the phrase ‘establish and incorporate’ by the Legislature may be relevant in the larger enquiry but cannot be said to be conclusively determinative of the factum of establishment or not by the minority community – If the intention of the Legislature is to establish or incorporate or recognise a minority University, the Legislatures have incorporated suitable provisions to colour the University with a minority identity. [Para 266] 7. There were no rights, fundamental or otherwise, prior to the Constitution coming into force and therefore, there is no question of surrendering any right – The British Indian Government was a supreme Imperial power in the country, and the question of surrender is illusionary and does not arise in the present case – The coming into force of the Constitution 1660 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports and fundamental right after 1950, cannot alter the events that occurred during the decade of 1910-1920 which led to the establishment of the AMU. [Para 266] 8. There is no legal requirement for the AMU ‘Court’ to be manned by the people from the minority community ever since 1951 and therefore, merely because de facto the persons from the minority community may have manned the posts in the institution, would not be relevant to adjudicate the question. [Para 266] 9. The assertion that ‘neutral’ institutions or non-minority institutions would in the natural course of things be ‘majoritarian’ or that Article 30 contemplates constitutionally protecting certain educational spaces from such ‘majoritarianism-by- default’ tendencies, is wholly erroneous – The purpose of Article 30 is not to create ‘minority only’ ghettos rather provide positive rights to the minorities to establish educational institutions of their choice and kind. [Para 266] 10. Article 30, as a feature of the Constitution, provides important rights which function within the larger penumbra of fundamental rights – There is substantial interplay, intermixing and balancing of rights inter se within the fundamental rights and Article 30 is not absolute and certainly do not exist in a silo. [Para 266] 11. The crux of Article 30(1) lies in its mandate to ensure parity between non-minority [or ‘neutral’] institutions and minority institutions – Its fundamental aim is to prevent any form of discrimination or preferential treatment to non-minority communities, thereby advocating for equal treatment under the law for one and all – This provision underscores that no specific category or type of institution should be disadvantaged or unduly favoured over another within the legal framework.