(2) For the purpose of brining the provisions of any law in force in the territory of India into accord with the provisions of this Constitution, the President may by make such adaptations and modifications of such law, whether by way of repeal or amendment, as may be necessary or expedient, and provide that the law shall, as from such date as may be specified in the , have effect subject to the adaptations and modifications so made, and any such adaptation or modification shall not be questioned in any court of law. (3) Nothing in clause (2) shall be deemed— (a) to empower the President to make any adaptation or modification of any law after the expiration of three years from the commencement of this Constitution; or (b) to prevent any competent Legislature or other competent authority from repealing or amending any law adapted or modified by the President under the said clause. Explanation I.—The expression “law in force” in this article shall include a law passed or made by a Legislature or other competent authority in the territory of India before the commencement of this Constitution and not previously repealed, notwithstanding that it or parts of it may not be then in operation either at all or in particular areas. Explanation II.—.... Explanation III.—.... Explanation IV.—.... List II—State List 1. 1. ... 2. ... 876 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 3. ***Officers and servants of the High Court; procedure in rent and revenue courts; fees taken in all courts except the Supreme Court. List III—Concurrent List x x x x [11A. Administration of Justice; constitution and organisation of all courts, except the Supreme Court and the High Courts.] PART XXI [TEMPORARY, TRANSITIONAL AND SPECIAL PROVISIONS] 372. (1) Notwithstanding the repeal by this Constitution of the enactments referred to in article 395 but subject to the other provisions of this Constitution, all the law in force in the territory of India immediately before the commencement of this Constitution shall continue in force therein until altered or repealed or amended by a competent Legislature or other competent authority. (2) For the purpose of brining the provisions of any law in force in the territory of India into accord with the provisions of this Constitution, the President may by 1 make such adaptations and modifications of such law, whether by way of repeal or amendment, as may be necessary or expedient, and provide that the law shall, as from such date as may be specified in the , have effect subject to the adaptations and modifications so made, and any such adaptation or modification shall not be questioned in any court of law. (3) Nothing in clause (2) shall be deemed— (a) to empower the President to make any adaptation or modification of any law after the expiration of 2[three years] from the commencement of this Constitution; or (b) to prevent any competent Legislature or other competent authority from repealing or amending any law adapted or modified by the President under the said clause.