For this the material relied upon by the defence should not have been refuted, or alternatively, cannot be justifiably refuted, being material of sterling and impeccable quality. The material relied upon by the accused should be such as would persuade a reasonable person to dismiss and condemn the actual basis of the accusations as false. In such a situation, the judicial conscience of the High Court would persuade it to exercise its power under Section 482 CrPC to quash such criminal proceedings, for that would prevent abuse of process of the court, and secure the ends of justice.” [emphasis added] 18.2 In the captioned case, this court had further observed that the discretion vested in the High Court under Section 482 Cr.P.C can be exercised suo moto to prevent abuse of the process of a Court, and/or to secure the ends of justice. After listing the factors that ought to weigh with the High Court to make a just and rightful choice, it was observed thus: “30. Based on the factors canvassed in the foregoing paragraphs, we would delineate the following steps to 1242 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports determine the veracity of a prayer for quashment raised by an accused by invoking the power vested in the High Court under Section 482 CrPC: 30.1. Step one: whether the material relied upon by the accused is sound, reasonable, and indubitable i.e. the material is of sterling and impeccable quality? 30.2. Step two: whether the material relied upon by the accused would rule out the assertions contained in the charges levelled against the accused i.e. the material is sufficient to reject and overrule the factual assertions contained in the complaint i.e. the material is such as would persuade a reasonable person to dismiss and condemn the factual basis of the accusations as false? 30.3. Step three: whether the material relied upon by the accused has not been refuted by the prosecution/ complainant; and/or the material is such that it cannot be justifiably refuted by the prosecution/complainant? 30.4. Step four: whether proceeding with the trial would result in an abuse of process of the court, and would not serve the ends of justice? 30.5. If the answer to all the steps is in the affirmative, the judicial conscience of the High Court should persuade it to quash such criminal proceedings in exercise of power vested in it under Section 482 CrPC. Such exercise of power, besides doing justice to the accused, would save precious court time, which would otherwise be wasted in holding such a trial (as well as proceedings arising therefrom) specially when it is clear that the same would not conclude in the conviction of the accused.” [emphasis added] 18.3 In State of Orissa v. Debendra Nath Padhi,90 the powers of the High Court under Section 482, Cr.P.C and Article 226 of the Constitution of India were highlighted and the court observed that: 90 [2004] Supp. 6 SCR 460 : (2005) 1 SCC 568 [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1243 M/s Karnataka Emta Coal Mines Limited and Another v. Central Bureau of Investigation “29.