In the list of witnesses mentioned in the charge sheet, the name of PW-2 has not been included. Therefore, for all the reasons discussed above, the evidence of PW-2, the only eyewitness, cannot be held to be of sterling quality. It is unsafe to base conviction only on his testimony. Even otherwise, taking his testimony as correct, the evidence of the PW-2 can, at the highest, be the evidence of the last seen together. 13. Therefore, it is necessary to consider the other circumstantial evidence. In this case, the recovery of the victim’s slipper and underwear is alleged at the appellant’s instance. We have perused the recovery memo signed by the circle officer and two independent witnesses. The prosecution did not examine the two independent witnesses. Though the date of recovery is mentioned in the memo, the time and, most importantly, the place of recovery are not mentioned. Therefore, it 344 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports cannot be said that pursuant to the statement made by the appellant, in accordance with Section 27 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1972 (for short, ‘the Evidence Act’), the articles were found at the place stated by the appellant. Hence, the prosecution failed to prove that the recovery was from a particular place. Thus, evidence of recovery will have to be kept out of consideration. The recovery of the articles at the instance of the appellant is a very important circumstance in the chain of circumstances. It is not proved. Hence, the appellant’s guilt beyond reasonable doubt has not been established. EXAMINATION OF THE APPELLANT UNDER SECTION 313 OF CR.P.C 14. Now, we come to the appellant’s statement, recorded per Section 313 of the CrPC. Only three questions were put to the appellant. In the first question, the names of ten prosecution witnesses were incorporated, and the only question asked to the appellant was what he had to say about the testimony of ten prosecution witnesses. In the second question, all the documents produced by the prosecution were referred, and a question was asked, what the appellant has to say about the documents. In the third question, it was put to the appellant that knowing the fact that the victim belongs to a scheduled caste, he caused her death after raping her and concealed her dead body, and he was asked for his reaction to the same. What PW-1 and PW-2 deposed against the appellant was not put to the appellant. The contents of the incriminating documents were not put to the appellant. 15. In the case of Raj Kumar,1 in paragraph 17, this Court has summarised the law laid down by this Court from time to time on Section 313 of the CrPC. Paragraph 17 reads thus: “17. The law consistently laid down by this Court can be summarized as under: (i) It is the duty of the Trial Court to put each material circumstance appearing in the evidence against the accused specifically, distinctively and separately. The material circumstance means the circumstance or the material on the basis of which the prosecution is seeking his conviction; [2024] 12 S.C.R.