22. On 21 November 2021, substantial amendments were made to the definition of “related party” with deferred prospective effect from 1 April 2022 and 1 April 2023. In these amendments, the definition of “related party” was amended to include persons holding 20% or more in the listed company whether directly or indirectly or on a beneficial interest basis under Section 89 of the Companies Act, 2013 with 11 PMLA [2024] 1 S.C.R. 191 VISHAL TIWARI v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS effect from 1 April 2022. However, with effect from 1 April 2023, the deemed inclusion would bring within the scope of the term “related party” persons who hold 10% or more of the listed company. The Expert Committee report has opined that these amendments were necessitated to address the mischief or contrivance of effecting a transaction involving a transfer of resources between a listed company and a third party which is not a related party, only to technically escape the rigours of compliance applicable to a related party transaction, to thereafter transfer the resources from the unrelated party to a related party. The Committee further opined that deferred prospective application of regulations is not bad practice in commercial law, as it allows the market to adjust to the proposed changes and avoid uncertainty. 23. However, the petitioner argues that these amendments to the LODR Regulations have facilitated the mischief or contravention with regard to related party transactions by the Adani group. This, as the petitioner argues, is because the series of amendments have made it difficult to establish contravention of law by first opening a loophole and then plugging the loophole with deferred effect. The petitioner has also argued that while initially the director, their relative, or a relative of a key managerial person was considered a related party, the amendments have changed this position to hold that a person/ entity be deemed ‘related party’ only if the shareholding of that person/entity is at least 20%. These amendments have allegedly made it difficult to investigate the acquisition against the Adani group for flouting minimum public shareholding regulations by engaging in related party transactions through FPIs. It has also made it difficult to assign the specific contravention of a regulation to the Adani group. 24. In essence, the petitioners have argued that the amendments to the two regulations amount to regulatory failure on the part of SEBI and have accordingly prayed that SEBI be directed to revoke the amendments to the FPI Regulations and LODR Regulations or make suitable changes. It may be pointed out that these arguments and prayers were not present in the initial petitions. They have only propped after the report of the Expert Committee dated 6 May 2023. The Report stated that in view of the amendments to the regulations, it cannot return a finding of regulatory failure by SEBI. Thereafter, the petitioners have made arguments to belie the finding of the Expert Committee Report. 192 [2024] 1 S.C.R. DIGITAL SUPREME COURT REPORTS 25. SEBI in its affidavit dated 10 July 2023 has submitted that the entire rouse around regulatory failure caused by amendments to FPI Regulations and LODR Regulations was initiated because of SEBI’s submissions before the Expert Committee in the context of challenges faced in obtaining information regarding holders of economic interest.