Paragraphs nos. 9 to 11 read thus: “9. Thus, this Court directs that all learned trial courts shall, while allowing or disallowing any regular/ anticipatory bail application of any accused person, give the complete details of the antecedents, if any, and also record that there are no antecedents of the accused person in case of none being there. If there are antecedents of the accused, then the complete details of the antecedents i.e. FIR Number(s) & Case Number(s), Section(s), date(s), status and date of arrest & release on any previous occasion, if any, in the chart form shall be prepared and incorporated in the learned trial courts’ , while granting or dismissing the bail application. 10. This shall be conveyed by the Registry of this Court to all learned District & Sessions Judges of the State, who shall ensure the immediate implementation of this amongst all the judicial officers and all courts in their respective jurisdiction, which are hearing the bail applications. The detailed antecedents report in aforesaid format so provided in the trial courts’ shall be the requirement for disposal of any 1 (2020) 4 RLW 3386 684 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports bail application in State of Rajasthan. It is also directed that the learned Public Prosecutors all over the State shall call for the antecedents report well in advance in every case of bail, so as to enable the courts to have a definite and correct information regarding previous criminal antecedents of the accused. A certified copy of this be also sent by the Registry to the Director of the Prosecution Department of the State for necessary compliance, amongst the learned Public Prosecutors all over the State of Rajasthan. 11. The Registry of this Hon’ble Court shall ensure compliance of this , in its letter and spirit, and submit such compliance before this Court on 05.01.2021.” (underline supplied) 4. While dismissing the bail application by dated 20th December 2022, the appellant did not incorporate the details of the antecedents of the accused in the prescribed tabular form in terms of the directions in paragraph 9 quoted above. He merely mentioned in the that there were 10 criminal cases registered against the accused at different police stations. Therefore, the learned Single Judge of the High Court passed an dated 4th April 2023 observing that since the directions issued by the High Court in the case of Jugal Kishore1 were not complied with by the appellant, it not only amounts to indiscipline but may also amount to contempt. Therefore, the learned Judge directed that a copy of the said be forwarded to the appellant and his explanation be called for within five days. Accordingly, the appellant submitted his explanation dated 6th April 2023, in which he accepted that the directions in paragraph 9 of the decision have not been complied with. The appellant stated that this omission happened due to excessive work pressure. He assured the High Court that he would follow directions in paragraph 9 of the said decision.