3 and 4 respectively for breaking the lock and forcibly entering the suit property along with ten other persons. d. Injunction was granted by the trial court by way of a well- reasoned after taking into consideration all the detailed [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1353 Ramakant Ambalal Choksi v. Harish Ambalal Choksi & Others facts and contentions of both the parties. The appellate court should remain slow in substituting its own discretion with the one exercised by the court of first instance unless the exercise of discretion by the first court was shown to be malicious, capricious, perverse or having been exercised in ignorance of the settled principles of law regulating the grant or refusal of interlocutory injunctions. 18. The High Court by way of the impugned , allowed the appeal filed by the defendants and vacated the granting injunction in favour of the plaintiffs. The High Court took the view that with the grant of injunction, the trial court had virtually allowed the suit, though no case for grant of interim injunction could be said to have been made out. The High Court also referred to other pending civil and criminal litigations between the parties and observed that the same suggested that the plaintiffs were intentionally harassing the defendants one way or the other. The relevant observations made by the High Court are extracted below: “16. [...] It also emerges from the record that the respondents seek share from the property which the appellant is entitled to get as family settlement and they are also creating hurdle in utilizing the property by restraining electricity company from granting electricity connection to the appellants. That the respondents approached the electricity company by filing application with regard to non-grant of electricity connection to the appellants and, therefore, the appellants are not given electricity connection. It emerges from the record that against inaction on the part of the electricity company, the appellants preferred Special Civil Application No.21075 of 2022 before this Court and this Court vide dated 19.10.2022 issued notice and it was kept open for the electricity company to consider the application preferred by the appellants in the month of February 2022. In view of the aforesaid facts, it clearly reveals that the respondents are intentionally harassing the appellants by one or the other way. It appears that the original plaintiffs filed the suit for declaration, cancellation of registered sale deed No.2863 dated 23.03.2018 which was executed by original defendant no.1 in favour of original defendant no.3 1354 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports in connection with the suit property of Sub Plot No.1 of Navrang Cooperative Housing Society, R. C. Dutt Road, Alkapuri, Vadodara and permanent injunction against the original defendants along with the injunction application at Exhibit 5. Considering the facts and circumstances of the case, I am of the opinion that by granting interim relief vide dated 10.01.2022, the trial court had virtually allowed the suit, even though none of the circumstances for consideration for grant of interim relief did ever exist.