The State Commission to finalise the aforesaid prices within a period of eight weeks from today. The MAs are disposed of accordingly.” 55. A review application was also filed on behalf of the SKS Power. The said review application was disposed of by this Court vide dated 21st January 2019, with the following directions: “------. We find that as per the Standard Bidding Guidelines the PPA is first to be signed after which the question of adoption of tariff has to be taken up. With this clarification of the 20.09.2018 , we dispose of the review and the M.A. The State Commission which has reserved its 942 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports on 16.01.2019 will hear the parties within a period of two weeks from today and will pass s after taking into account the that we have passed today.” 56. In accordance with the directions issued by this Court, the State Commission considered the rival submissions of the parties and came to a conclusion that the tariff quoted by SKS Power was not market aligned. The State Commission also found that, adoption of such high rate would be against the consumer interest. The State Commission, therefore, vide dated 26th February 2019, decided not to adopt the tariff quoted by L-4 and L-5 bidders. 57. The said dated 26th February 2019 of the State Commission was challenged before the learned APTEL by SKS Power by way of Appeal No.224 of 2019. The learned APTEL framed the following three issues in the said appeal: “ISSUE NO.1: Whether the Respondent Commission could reject the tariff/bid of the Appellant, in terms of Section 63 of the Electricity Act, 2003 and the directions issued by the Hon’ble Supreme Court? ISSUE NO.2: Whether there was a sufficient proof to show that the bid of the Appellant was market aligned? ISSUE NO.3: Whether the argument of Consumer interest be advanced by the Rajasthan Discoms in the facts of the present Appeal?” 58. The learned APTEL while answering the first issue, came to the conclusion that the State Commission, while adopting tariff under Section 63, has to only consider that the Bidding Guidelines issued by the Central Government providing for tariff structure were complied with or not. The learned APTEL also held that the State Commission cannot exercise its powers de hors such guidelines. It further held that the State Commission has no power to reject the tariff of a bidder. 59. Insofar as the second issue is concerned, the learned APTEL came to a finding that, since the bid of SKS Power was already evaluated, and the subsequent certificates were issued by the BEC confirming [2024] 1 S.C.R. 943 Jaipur Vidyut Vitran Nigam Ltd. & Ors. v. MB Power (Madhya Pradesh) Limited & Ors. the transparency of the bid, it was not open for the State Commission to go into the question, as to whether the tariff quoted by SKS Power was market aligned or not. It further held that, after the dated 25th April 2018 was passed by this Court, it was not open for the State Commission to re-evaluate the bid.