This is in consideration of the Films Division supplying films to the exhibitor, packing the film and arranging for its delivery. This is clearly an agreed fee charged for rendering services. It cannot be viewed as a compulsory exaction or as a tax. There is a statutory obligation which is cast on the exhibitors to exhibit certain films. To carry out this statutory obligation, if the exhibitors enter into an agreement with the Films Division and agree to pay a certain amount of rental for procuring the films from the Films Division to comply with the statutory obligation, the levy must, since it is correlated with the Films Division discharging certain obligations under the contract, be viewed, at the highest, as a fee and not as a tax. It is an agreed payment, and is not unreasonable. The High Court [Motion Picture Assn. v. Union of India, 1995 SCC OnLine Del 600 : (1995) 60 DLT 180] has rightly negatived the contention of the respondent exhibitors.” 56. Thus, the expression “royalty” has consistently been construed to be compensation paid for rights and privileges enjoyed by the grantee and normally has its genesis in the agreement entered into between the grantor and the grantee. As against tax which is imposed under a statutory power without reference to any special benefit to be conferred on the payer of the tax, the royalty would be in terms [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1393 The Patna Municipal Corporation & Ors. v. M/s Tribro Ad Bureau & Ors. v Ulhasnagar Municipal Council (1970) 1 SCC 582, the relevant being Paragraph 11,3 and; Union of India v Indo-Afghan Agencies Ltd. (1968) 2 SCR 366, the relevant being Paragraphs 10 and 24.4 of the agreement between the parties and normally has direct relationship with the benefit or privilege conferred upon the grantee.’ 3 ‘11. Public bodies are as much bound as private individuals to carry out representations of facts and promises made by them, relying on which other persons have altered their position to their prejudice. The obligation arising against an individual out of his representation amounting to a promise may be enforced ex contracts by a person who acts upon the promise: when the law requires that a contract enforceable at law against a public body shall be in certain form or be executed in the manner prescribed by statute, the obligation may if the contract be not in that form be enforced against it in appropriate cases in equity. In Union of India v. Indo-Afghan Agencies Ltd. [(1968) 2 SCR 366] this Court held that the Government is not exempt from the equity arising out of the acts done by citizens to their prejudice, relying upon the representations as to its future conduct made by the Government. This Court held that the following observations made by Denning, J., in Robertson v. Minister of Pensions [(1949) 1 KB 227] applied in India: “The Crown cannot escape by saying that estoppels do not bind the Crown for that doctrine has long been exploded.