Per contra, learned counsel for the State of Assam submitted that because of the grave threat to the economy, demography and culture on account of unabated and large-scale illegal migration from Bangladesh, this Court in Sarbananda Sonowal v Union of India (2005) 5 SCC 665 [hereinafter referred to as Sarbananda Sonowal I ] had held that ‘…there can be no manner of doubt that the State of Assam is facing “external aggression and internal disturbance” on account of large-scale illegal migration of Bangladeshi nationals. It, therefore, becomes the duty of India to take all measures for protection of the State of Assam from such external aggression and internal disturbance as in Article 355 of the Constitution…’. 14. It was submitted that the present was a case of illegal migration of a Bangladeshi national to India (Assam) after the cut-off date of 25.03.1971 and has to be dealt with utmost caution, considering the adverse consequence of illegal migration on the whole country in general and the respondent-State in particular. It was further submitted that the present proceedings against the appellant have been initiated under the Act, which under Section 9 provides that 1 ‘27. As stated above, a person aggrieved by the opinion/ of the Tribunal can challenge the findings/ opinion expressed by way of a writ petition wherein the High Court would be entitled to examine the issue with reference to the evidence and material in the exercise of its power of judicial review premised on the principle of “error in the decision-making process”, etc. This serves as a necessary check to correct and rectify an “error” in the s passed by the Tribunal.’ 2336 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the onus is on the person proceeded against/alleged foreigner to prove that he is not a foreigner. 15. Learned counsel contended that the justification for placing the burden upon the alleged foreigner has been dealt with by this Court in Sarbananda Sonowal I (supra) at Paragraph 26.2 16. Learned counsel submitted that the proceeding against the appellant was initiated on the basis of inquiry conducted in the year 2004 and due to the appellant failing to produce any document before the Inquiry Officer, the case was referred to the Tribunal and after service of notice, the appellant had appeared on 18.07.2011 and prayed for time to file written statement which was allowed and the matter was fixed for 11.08.2011, on which date his counsel filed a petition for further time and the matter was fixed for 09.09.2011, but thereafter the appellant remained absent on all subsequent dates. Thus, learned counsel contended that the appellant failed to discharge the burden cast upon him under Section 9 of the Act and the Tribunal had no option but to proceed and pass an ex-parte /opinion on 19.03.2012 holding him to be a foreigner. 17. Learned counsel submitted that in the Writ Petition before the High Court, the appellant placed reliance on the medical certificate of Swahid Mukunda Kakati Civil Hospital, Nalbari dated 24.04.2012 to the effect that he was under treatment from ‘25.11.2011 till now’.