[Para 266] 12. To assume that the minorities of the country require some ‘safe haven’ for attaining education and knowledge is wholly incorrect – The minorities of the country have not just joined the mainstream but comprise an important facet of the mainstream itself. The institutions of national character of the country always serve the interests of the minorities and are diverse centers of learning. [Para 266] [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1661 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. B. Educational Institution – Minority educational institution – Status of AMU vis-à-vis minority rights – Whether the Constitution Bench decision in Azeez Basha was incorrect. Held [per Dr D Y Chandrachud, CJI (for himself, Sanjiv Khanna, J.B. Pardiwala and Manoj Misra, JJ. )]: The view taken in Azeez Basha that an educational institution is not established by a minority if it derives its legal character through a statute, is overruled. [Para 161] Held [per Surya Kant, J. ]: The Constitution Bench in Azeez Basha, when it holds that since Section 6 of the AMU Act, 1920 stipulates that degrees conferred by AMU would be recognised by the Government, it could not have been ‘brought into existence by a private individual or body’, is seemingly incorrect – There is no conflict between the seven-judge bench opinion in Kerala Education Bill and the five-judge Constitution Bench in Azeez Basha on the other – The six-judge Constitution Bench in Sidhajbhai Sabhai, laying down that the right under Article 30 is absolute and unconditional, is not the correct principle of law; the judgement is no more binding in nature and stands effectively overruled in TMA Pai, to that extent – Consequently, Azeez Basha does not suffer from any legal infirmity on the premise that it did not cite or follow Sidhajbhai Sabhai. [Para 192(a), (b) and (f)] Held [per Dipankar Datta, J. ]: Not only is Azeez Basha a judicial verdict more than half a century old on the status of AMU vis-à- vis minority rights, but it has a strong foundational basis and is anchored in robust legal reasoning – The view taken therein, in the given facts and circumstances, is indeed a plausible view which demands due deference rather than the view being overruled at this distance of time. [Para 14] Held [per Satish Chandra Sharma, J. ]: The notion that Azeez Basha categorically prohibits minorities from establishing universities due to statutory requirements is unfounded – The bench in Azeez Basha and present bench are faced with a unique situation and needs to adopt a suitably modulated approach – The in Azeez Basha does not preclude minorities from establishing universities but rather highlights the importance of legislative intent and statutory provisions in determining an institution’s character – The UGC Act or the in Yashpal, in no manner, comes to the aid of the parties challenging the correctness of the 1662 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports in Azeez Basha – The amendment in the NCMEI Act 2004 does not come to the aid of the parties questioning the correctness of the decision in Azeez Basha.