The concept of instrumentality or agency of the Government is not limited to a corporation created by a statute but is equally applicable to a Company or society and in a given case it would have to be decided, on a consideration of the relevant factors, whether the 532 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Company or society is an instrumentality or agency of the Government so as to come within the meaning of the expression “authority” in Article 12.” (emphasis supplied) 24. This Court in Ajay Hasia (supra) established several tests to determine whether an entity can be considered an instrumentality or agency of the Government, and thus an “authority” under Article 12 of the Constitution of India. These tests include but are not limited to ; 1. Extent of financial support from the government; 2. Deep and pervasive control of the government; 3. Functions performed are of public importance and closely related to governmental functions; 4. Entity enjoys monopoly status conferred or protected by the State; 5. The government department has been transferred to the entity. 25. In Pradeep Kumar Bishwas (supra), this Court held that the tests laid down in Ajay Hasia (supra) are relevant for the purpose of determining whether an entity is an instrumentality or agency of the State. Neither all the tests are required to be answered in positive nor a positive answer to one or two tests would suffice. It will depend upon a combination of one or more of the relevant factors depending upon the essentiality and overwhelming nature of such factors in identifying the real source of governing power, if need be by removing the mask or piercing the veil disguising the entity concerned. 26. The relevant paragraphs of Pradeep Kumar Biswas (supra) are reproduced below: - “98. We sum up our conclusions as under: (1) Simply by holding a legal entity to be an instrumentality or agency of the State it does not necessarily become an authority within the meaning of “other authorities” in Article 12. To be an authority, the entity should have been created by a statute or under a statute and functioning with liability and obligations to the public. Further, the statute creating the entity should have vested that entity with power to make [2024] 8 S.C.R. 533 Rajkaran Singh & Ors. v. Union of India & Ors. law or issue binding directions amounting to law within the meaning of Article 13(2) governing its relationship with other people or the affairs of other people — their rights, duties, liabilities or other legal relations. If created under a statute, then there must exist some other statute conferring on the entity such powers. In either case, it should have been entrusted with such functions as are governmental or closely associated therewith by being of public importance or being fundamental to the life of the people and hence governmental. Such authority would be the State, for, one who enjoys the powers or privileges of the State must also be subjected to limitations and obligations of the State.