51. Where a particular mode is prescribed for doing an act and there is no impediment in adopting the procedure, the deviation to act in a different manner which does not disclose any discernible principle which is reasonable itself is liable to be labelled as arbitrary. The State action must be informed by reason and it follows that the action uninformed by reason is per se arbitrary. The basic requirement of Article 14 is fairness in action by the State and non-arbitrariness in 520 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports essence and substance is the heartbeat of fair play. These actions are amenable to the judicial review not only to the extent that the State must act validly for a discernible reason and not whimsically for any ulterior purpose. The public authorities are governed by the “rule of law”. Such authorities are constitutionally obliged in law to maintain absolute fairness and transparency during the conduct of the auction sale right from the initiation of the same till its completion. Judicial audit and scrutiny play a key role in ensuring that the public authorities do not act in an unreasonable manner. 52. The dictum as laid by this Court in Tata Cellular v. Union of India reported in (1994) 6 SCC 651 is that the judicial power of review is exercised to rein in any unbridled executive functioning. It was observed that the restraint has two contemporary manifestations viz. one is ambit of judicial intervention and the other covers the scope of the court’s ability to quash an administrative decision on its merits. These restraints bear the hallmarks of judicial control over administrative action. It was held that the principle of judicial review is concerned with reviewing not the merits of the decision in support of which the application for judicial review is made, but the decision-making process itself. It was held that the principle of judicial review would apply to the exercise of contractual powers by the Government bodies in to prevent arbitrariness or favouritism. It was held that the duty of the court is to confine itself to the question of legality and its concern should be whether a decision-making authority exceeded its powers; whether it committed an error of law or committed a breach of the rules of natural justice or reached a decision which no reasonable tribunal would have reached or, abused its powers. The grounds upon which an administrative action can be subjected to judicial review are classified as illegality, irrationality and procedural impropriety. In that very decision, while deducing the principles from various cases referred, it was held that the modern trend points to judicial restraint in administrative action; that the Court does not sit as a court of appeal but merely reviews the manner in which the decision was made; that the court does not have the expertise to correct the administrative decision and if a review of the administrative decision is permitted, it will be substituting its own decision, without the necessary expertise which itself may be fallible; that the terms of the invitation to tender cannot be open to judicial scrutiny because the invitation to tender is in the [2024] 7 S.C.R.