2225 Om Rathod v. The Director General of Health Services & Ors. c. The college shall be given the report dated 20 October 2024 which makes suggestions as to the accommodations which may be extended to the appellant to successfully pursue the MBBS course; d. The appellant shall be protected from victimisation; e. The judgement shall apply in rem. 60. We further conclude as follows: a. The second respondent shall issue fresh guidelines for admitting persons with disabilities into medical courses. The committee formulating the guidelines must include experts with disability or persons who have worked on disability justice. The guidelines shall comply with the s of this Court and contemporary advancements in disability justice; b. The Disability Assessment Boards shall eschew from a benchmark model to test the functional competence of medical aspirants with disability. The second respondent shall issue appropriate guidelines in this regard; a. The Disability Assessment Boards shall include a doctor or health professional with disability as per the directions of the first respondent dated 24 March 2022; b. The conduct of the Disability Assessment Boards shall be fair, transparent and in compliance with principles of the rule of law. Attention must be paid to ensure that candidates appearing before the Board do not feel uncomfortable on account of physical or attitudinal barriers; c. Reasonable accommodation is a gateway right to avail all other fundamental, human and legal rights for persons with disabilities. Non-availability of reasonable accommodation amounts to discrimination and violates substantive equality of persons with disabilities; d. The inclusion of persons with disability in the medical profession would enhance the quality of healthcare and meet the preambular virtue of fraternity and the guarantees in Articles 21, 19, 14 and 15 of the Constitution; e. Applicants to the NEET examination must be informed about the compliance of accessibility norms and provisions of reasonable 2226 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports accommodation available at colleges. The respondents shall issue appropriate directions to create a database with relevant information on accessibility and reasonable accommodation; and f. Enabling Units at medical colleges shall act as points of contact for persons with disability desirous of accessing clinical accommodations. 61. A copy of this will be transmitted to the Secretaries of all concerned Ministries of the Government of India. 62. The appeal is allowed in the above terms. 63. Pending applications, if any, shall stand disposed of. Result of the case: Appeal allowed. †Headnotes prepared by: Divya Pandey