The second part of Article 31-C can be severed from the remaining part of Article 31-C and its invalidity would not affect the validity of the remaining part. I would, therefore, strike down the following words in Article 31-C – “and no law containing a declaration that it is for giving effect to such policy shall be called in question in any court on the ground that it does not give effect to such policy.” 39. In essence, the second half of Article 31-C was severed from the first half and struck down. The second half of Article 31-C was thus no longer legally enforceable. What follows from the above conclusions is that after the decision in Kesavananda Bharati, Article 31-C ought to be read as follows: “31C. Saving of laws giving effect to certain directive principles. – Notwithstanding anything contained in article 13, no law giving effect to the policy of the State towards securing the principles specified in clause (b) or clause (c) of article 39 shall be deemed to be void on the ground that it is inconsistent with, or takes away or abridges any of the rights conferred by article 14, article 50 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 19 or article 31; *[and no law containing a declaration that it is for giving effect to such policy shall be called in question in any court on the ground that it does not give effect to such policy:] Provided that when such law is made by the Legislature of a State, the provisions of this article shall not apply thereto unless such law, having been reserved for the consideration of the President, has received his assent.” *No longer enforceable after Kesavananda Bharati 40. Subsequently, Article 31-C was further amended by the Constitution (Forty-second Amendment) Act, 1976 (“Forty-Second Amendment”). By Section 4 of this Act, the words “the principles specified in clause (b) or clause (c) of article 39” were replaced with the words “all or any of the principles laid down in Part IV.” The effect of the Forty- Second Amendment was that Article 31-C was amended as follows: “31C. Saving of laws giving effect to certain directive principles. – Notwithstanding anything contained in article 13, no law giving effect to the policy of the State towards securing *[all or any of the principles laid down in Part IV the principles specified in clause (b) or clause (c) of article 39] shall be deemed to be void on the ground that it is inconsistent with, or takes away or abridges any of the rights conferred by article 14, article 19 or article 31; **[and no law containing a declaration that it is for giving effect to such policy shall be called in question in any court on the ground that it does not give effect to such policy:] Provided that when such law is made by the Legislature of a State, the provisions of this article shall not apply thereto unless such law, having been reserved for the consideration of the President, has received his assent.” *Substitution effected by the Forty-Second Amendment ** No longer enforceable after Kesavananda Bharati Shortly thereafter, Article 31-C was once again amended by Section 8 of the Constitution (Forty-fourth Amendment) Act, 1978.