383 Jagdish Prasad Singh v. State of Bihar and Others 11 (supra) of the Government Resolution dated 8th February, 1999 as per which, the appellant was not entitled to the higher pay scale which had wrongly been accorded to him. The said is assailed in this appeal by special leave. Submissions on behalf of the appellant: - 13. Learned counsel for the appellant urged that the impugned s are ex facie bad in the eyes of law because the Government Resolution dated 8th February 1999, was misinterpreted by the authorities as well as by the High Court. He urged that paragraph 11 (supra) of the Government Resolution dated 8th February 1999, clearly postulates that the same would not have any adverse effect on the employees who had received the time bound promotions prior to 31st December 1995. Admittedly, the appellant had been given time bound promotion as Senior Selection Grade, Marketing Officer-cum-Assistant District Supply Officer on 10th March, 1991, which was long before the cut off date fixed under the said Government Resolution, i.e., 31st December, 1995 and thus, he was rightfully conferred the benefit of the revised pay scale i.e. Rs.6500-10500 under the recommendations of the 5th Pay Commission. The Government Resolution dated 8th February, 1999 having clearly indicated the cut-off date as 31st December, 1995, the appellant would be protected from the adverse effects thereof and was entitled to protect his promotion and pay scale. He thus, urged that the impugned s are grossly illegal and cannot be sustained. 14. He further contended that the reduction in the pay scale of the appellant and the direction to effect recovery eight years after his retirement, that too, without adhering to the principles of natural justice, is even otherwise illegal, arbitrary and violative of Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution of India and thus, the same cannot be sustained. He urged that the learned Single Judge as well as the Division Bench of the High Court clearly fell in error while interpreting the Government Resolution dated 8th February, 1999 because paragraph 11 (supra) thereof protects the time bound promotion offered to the appellant as per his entitlement on 10th March, 1991 and so also the revised pay scale applicable to the said post under the 5th Pay Commission. 15. On these grounds, learned counsel for the appellant implored the Court to set aside the impugned s and the proposed recovery from the appellant and so also the consequential reduction in his future pensionary benefits. 384 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Submissions on behalf of the respondent: - 16. Per contra, learned counsel representing the State of Bihar, vehemently and fervently opposed the submissions advanced by the learned counsel for the appellant. It was contended that the Government Resolution dated 8th February, 1999 was made uniformly applicable to all employees in the State of Bihar. The appellant has not been singled out for the impugned action and thus, there is no question of any discrimination being meted out to the appellant.