Nor do they lay down a proposition that even if the discharge of contract is not genuine or legal, the claims cannot be referred to arbitration. […]” 56. Again, in R.L. Kalathia and Company v. State of Gujarat reported in (2011) 2 SCC 400, it was re-iterated that the mere issuance of the no-dues certificate would not operate as a bar against the raising of genuine claims even after the date of issuance of such certificate. The relevant observations are extracted hereinbelow: “13. From the above conclusions of this Court, the following principles emerge: (1) Merely because the contractor has issued “no-dues certificate”, if there is an acceptable claim, the court cannot reject the same on the ground of issuance of “no-dues certificate”. (ii) Inasmuch as it is common that unless a discharge certificate is given in advance by the contractor, payment of bills are generally delayed, hence such a clause in the contract would not be an absolute bar to a contractor raising claims which are genuine at a later date even after submission of such “no-claim certificate”. (iii) Even after execution of full and final discharge voucher/ receipt by one of the parties, if the said party is able to establish that he is entitled to further amount for which he is having adequate materials, he is not barred from claiming such amount merely because of acceptance of the final bill by mentioning “without prejudice” or by issuing “no-dues certificate”. (Emphasis supplied) 868 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 57. The position that emerges from the aforesaid discussion is that there is no rule of an absolute kind which precludes arbitration in cases where a full and final settlement has been arrived at. In Boghara Polyfab (supra), discussing in the context of a case similar to the one at hand, wherein the discharge voucher was alleged to have been obtained on ground of coercion, it was observed that the discharge of a contract by full and final settlement by issuance of a discharge voucher or a no-dues certificate extends only to those vouchers or certificates which are validly and voluntarily executed. Thus, if the party said to have executed the discharge voucher or the no dues certificate alleges that the execution was on account of fraud, coercion or undue influence exercised by the other party and is able to establish such an allegation, then the discharge of the contract by virtue of issuance of such a discharge voucher or no dues certificate is rendered void and cannot be acted upon. 58. It was further held in Boghara Polyfab (supra) that the mere execution of a full and final settlement receipt or a discharge voucher would not by itself operate as a bar to arbitration when the validity of such a receipt or voucher is challenged by the claimant on the ground of fraud, coercion or undue influence. In other words, where the parties are not ad idem over accepting the execution of the no-claim certificate or the discharge voucher, such disputed discharge voucher may itself give rise to an arbitrable dispute.