This inflation has disrupted rankings and affected admission opportunities; e. Concerns have been raised about the handling and transportation of examination materials. Reports indicate a six-day delay in transporting question papers to Hazaribagh, which raises issues of possible tampering. These concerns are compounded by reports that contradict NTA’s claims of secure transportation and live CCTV monitoring; f. The OMR sheets remain at the exam centre for some time after the exam, with persons who may tamper with them if they choose to; g. NTA has not adopted a fair marking system for one of the questions. Although only one option is the correct answer, it has treated two options as being correct and has awarded marks for both answers. This is unfair and disadvantages many candidates; 64 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports h. The question paper was leaked via ‘Telegram’ (an instant messaging platform); i. There are discrepancies in the data provided in ‘Table 8’ of NTA’s press release dated 4 June 2024 compared to the results announced on 20 July 2024; j. The report of the Director, IIT Madras overlooks critical issues such as: (i) the unusually high number of candidates scoring the perfect score i.e., 720/720; (ii) a sharp increase in students scoring above 700 marks; (iii) significant rank inflation in the 600-720 range; and (iv) the concentration of top scorers in a limited number of cities; k. The report of the Director, IIT Madras is not reliable because there is a conflict of interest with this case. This is due to the Director being a member of the General Body of NTA; l. The selective awarding of compensatory marks to 1563 aspirants without transparent criteria as to how they were selected suggests manipulation to benefit certain candidates; m. Independent analyses suggest that anomalies in the data remain undetected, pointing to systemic issues rather than isolated incidents of cheating. This highlights the need for thorough scrutiny of the examination process; n. Systematic failures, including widespread paper leaks, tampering with OMR sheets, and misuse of compensatory marks, suggest a broader security lapse within NTA; o. NTA’s lack of transparency is evident from its initial denial of leaks and inconsistent statements about the extent of paper leaks and compensatory marks; p. The re-examination process was discriminatory. It did not provide all affected candidates an opportunity to participate. Furthermore, NTA did not include details about compensatory marks in its official press release; q. NTA appoints private parties to be invigilators. No adequate system of oversight is present to ensure that these private parties do not enable malpractice or are not corrupt; and [2024] 8 S.C.R. 65 Vanshika Yadav v. Union of India & Ors. r. The scandal has undermined public trust in the examination system and the medical profession, leading to mental health issues among students. Immediate reforms are necessary to restore public confidence and ensure fairness in the examination process. 24. The Solicitor General for the Union of India and Mr Naresh Kaushik, senior counsel for NTA, advanced the following submissions: a.