In the context, the chart produced by the learned counsel for the High Court makes it clear that moderation, in fact, benefited the present writ petitioners to facilitate their participation in the Interview round. The reduction of aggregate marks from 55% to 50% is traceable to the proviso to Clause 10 of Appendix – ‘C’ of the Bihar Rules 1951. A modest variation in the sequence of events narrated in the RTI Reply is shown but even in such situation the additional affidavit makes it clear that following the moderation exercise, the aggregate marks were reduced to 50%, in accordance with the Rules. 79. The argument that for the interview also the qualifying marks should have been reduced just like in the written test is not acceptable since the Rules itself provided for a reduction in the aggregate marks in the written test. The proviso concerning relaxation is contained in Clause 10 which deals only with the written test. The Court in any case should not step into the shoes of the Selection Committee. The assessment and evaluation of the candidates appearing before the Selection Committee/Interview Board should best be left to the members of the Committee unless it is violative of the statutory Rules or tainted with ill motive. The decision of the Selection Committee was approved by the Full Court for increasing the number of candidates available for final selection. 80. On examination of the subsequent steps taken by the High Court after conducting the exam, we do not find any mala fide or statutory violation so as to vitiate the entire selection process in Bihar. Similarly, in the Gujarat cases, besides making vague allegations, the petitioners have 582 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports not presented any material to demonstrate any malicious intent or bias on the part of the selection Committee in the interview process. Thus, the selection process is not found to be tainted. Issue No. iv) Whether non-consultation with the Public Service Commission as required under Article 234 of the Constitution for amending the selection Rules stipulating minimum viva voce marks is rendered void? 81. Mr. Pawanshree Agarwal, the learned counsel for the writ petitioner has argued that in IA 20279 of 2022 in WP(C) 663 of 2021, an additional challenge on account of violation of Article 234 has been raised. It is argued that the prescription of minimum qualifying marks in the viva-voce under Rule 8(3) as amended in 2011 was only in consultation with the High Court of Gujarat but not with the Gujarat Public Service Commission. Therefore, in view of the mandatory requirement of Article 234, the Rules must be declared to be void. On the other hand, Mr. Malkan on behalf of the Gujarat High Court contended that the Public Service Commission itself requested for exemption as per the Gujarat Public Service Commission (Exemption from Consultation) Regulations,1960 framed under the proviso to Article 320(3) of the Constitution of India. Additionally, Ms. Deepanwita Priyanka who appeared through video conferencing for the State of Gujarat, read out the contents of a letter dated 10.6.2005 written by the Gujarat Public Service Commission stating that the proposed post of “Civil Judge”, does not fall within its jurisdiction.