The sentencing courts are expected to consider all the relevant facts and circumstances bearing on the question of sentence and proceed to impose a sentence commensurate with the gravity of the offence. The court must not only keep in view the rights of the victim but also the society at large while considering the imposition of appropriate punishment. Meagre sentence imposed solely on account of lapse of time without considering the degree of the offence will be counterproductive in the long run and against the interest of the society, it was further held. In Bawa Singh’s case (supra), this Court referred to the earlier decisions in Hazara Singh v. Raj Kumar & Ors.,2 and Shailesh Jasvantbhai & Anr. v. State of Gujarat & Ors.,3 with agreement, in paragraphs 13 and 14 thereof, as under:- “13. In Hazara Singh v. Raj Kumar, this Court has observed that: “10. … it is the duty of the courts to consider all the relevant factors to impose an appropriate sentence. The legislature has bestowed upon the judiciary this enormous discretion in the sentencing policy, which must be exercised with utmost care and caution. The punishment awarded should be directly proportionate to the nature and the magnitude of the offence. The benchmark of proportionate sentencing can assist the Judges in arriving at a fair and impartial verdict.” This Court further observed that: “11. … The cardinal principle of sentencing policy is that the sentence imposed on an offender should reflect the 1 [2015] 1 SCR 709 : (2015) 3 SCC 441 2 [2013] 5 SCR 979 : (2013) 9 SCC 516 3 [2006] 1 SCR 477 : (2006) 2 SCC 359 [2024] 7 S.C.R. 785 Baba Natarajan Prasad v. M. Revathi crime he has committed and it should be proportionate to the gravity of the offence. This Court has repeatedly stressed the central role of proportionality in sentencing of offenders in numerous cases.” 14. In Shailesh Jasvantbhai v. State of Gujarat, the Apex Court opined that: “7. The law regulates social interests, arbitrates conflicting claims and demands. Security of persons and property of the people is an essential function of the State. It could be achieved through instrumentality of criminal law. Undoubtedly, there is a cross-cultural conflict where living law must find answer to the new challenges and the courts are required to mould the sentencing system to meet the challenges. The contagion of lawlessness would undermine social and lay it in ruins. Protection of society and stamping out criminal proclivity must be the object of law which must be achieved by imposing appropriate sentence. Therefore, law as a cornerstone of the edifice of ‘’ should meet the challenges confronting the society. Friedman in his Law in Changing Society stated that: ‘State of criminal law continues to be–as it should be–a decisive reflection of social consciousness of society.’ Therefore, in operating the sentencing system, law should adopt the corrective machinery or deterrence based on factual matrix. By deft modulation, sentencing process be stern where it should be, and tempered with mercy where it warrants to be.