16. It is important at this stage to notice the definition of criminal force as defined in Section 350 of the IPC. “350. Criminal force.- Whoever intentionally uses force to any person, without that person’s consent, in to the committing of any offence, or intending by the use of such force to cause, or knowing it to be likely that by the 940 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports use of such force he will cause injury, fear or annoyance to the person to whom the force is used, is said to use criminal force to that other.” As would be clear, what is required to establish criminal force is intentional use of force to any person without that person’s consent in to the committing of any offence. 17. Section 349 of the IPC which defines force is extracted hereinbelow : “349. Force.- A person is said to use force to another if he causes motion, change of motion, or cessation of motion to that other, or if he causes to any substance such motion, or change of motion, or cessation of motion as brings that substance into contact with any part of that other’s body, or with anything which that other is wearing or carrying, or with anything so situated that such contact affects that other’s sense of feeling: Provided that the person causing the motion, or change of motion, or cessation of motion, causes that motion, change of motion, or cessation of motion in one of the three ways hereinafter described. First. - By his own bodily power. Secondly. - By disposing any substance in such a manner that the motion or change or cessation of motion takes place without any further act on his part, or on the part of any other person. Thirdly. - By inducing any animal to move, to change its motion, or to cease to move.” 18. Assault under Section 351 of the IPC would mean whoever makes any gesture, or any preparation intending or knowing it to be likely that such gesture or preparation will cause any person present to apprehend that he who makes that gesture or preparation is about to use criminal force to that person. 19. In this background, if we peruse the evidence on record, insofar as the charge under Section 353 of the IPC is concerned, it will transpire that none of the ingredients required for convicting a person under Section 353 of IPC were attracted. [2024] 8 S.C.R. 941 Mahendra Kumar Sonker v. The State of Madhya Pradesh 20. PW-1 Babulal Ahirwar, insofar as this part of the event that transpired is concerned deposed as under: “6. ….The name and address was asked from the accused and the accused was caught. On being asked from the accused about the money he became uncontrolled and tried to run from there. Taking advantage of the dark, the accused threw away those notes. 7. With much difficulty the accused could be won over. The wife of the accused also came at that time and crowd had also gathered there.