Advs., Varun thakur, Varinder Kumar Sharma, Ms Sneha Kalita, Ms. Kavya Jhawar, Ms. Nandini Rai, Ms. Doly Deka, Jessy Kurian, K.S. Bhati, Pawan Shree Agarwal, Advs. for the Petitioners. [2024] 3 S.C.R. 1317 Association of Democratic Reforms & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. Tushar Mehta, SG, Harish Salve, Sr. Adv., Sanjay Kapur, Ms. Divya Singh Pundir, Ms. Mahima Kapur, Ms. Mansi Kapur, Mrs. Shubhra Kapur, Devesh Dubey, Surya Prakash, Arjun Bhatia, Ms. Isha Virmani, Kanu Agarwal, Rajat Nair, Raman Yadav, Shyam Gopal, Raj Bahadur Yadav, Prashant Bhushan, Ms. Neha Rathi, Ms. Kajal Giri, Pranav Sachdeva, Ms. Shivani Kapoor, Kamal Kishore, Advs. for the Respondents. / of the Supreme Court Miscellaneous Application Diary No 12580 of 2024 1. On being mentioned, the Miscellaneous Application is taken on Board. 2. In sub-paragraphs “b” and “c” of paragraph 2211 of the of this Court dated 15 February 2024, the direction to the State Bank of India are to submit details of the (i) Electoral Bonds purchased; and (ii) Political Parties which have received contributions through Electoral Bonds. 3. This information has to be submitted since the date of the interim dated 12 April 2019. In other words, all details which have been directed to be furnished in the operative directions of this Court are to be submitted with effect from 12 April 2019. 4. The relief which has been sought in the Miscellaneous Application for pre-dating the point of disclosure would amount to a substantive modification of the . Hence, it cannot be dealt with in a Miscellaneous Application. 5. The Miscellaneous Application is, therefore, not maintainable and is accordingly dismissed. Miscellaneous Application No 596 of 2024 6. By the of this Court dated 15 February 2024, this Court directed “the disclosure of information on contributions received by 1 2024 SCC OnLine SC 150 1318 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports political parties under the Electoral Bond Scheme to give logical and complete effect” to the ruling. 7. Thereafter, in paragraph 221, this Court issued operative directions. These directions in sub-paragraph “b” and “c” are in two parts. Sub paragraph “b” requires SBI to submit details of the Electoral Bonds purchased since the interim dated 12 April 2019 “till date to the ECI”. Such details, the Court has indicated, “shall include the date of purchase of each Electoral Bond, the name of the purchaser of the bond and the denomination of the Electoral Bonds purchased”. Under the second part of the operative directions in sub-paragraph “c”, SBI was required to submit “the details of political parties which have received contributions through the Electoral Bonds” since the interim dated 12 April 2019 till date to ECI. SBI was required to disclose details of each Electoral Bond encashed by political parties inclusive of the date of encashment and the denomination of the Electoral Bond. 8. A plain reading of paragraph 221 of the dated 15 February 2024 indicates that SBI was required to submit all details, both in terms of the purchase and in terms of the receipt of contributions.