The High Court while discussing the case, brushed aside the said part of the evidence of the complainant (PW-1) by observing that the same was an afterthought. However, the fact remains that these vital facts were elicited during the cross- 666 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports examination of the complainant (PW-1) and hence, the benefit thereof would have to be given to the appellant (AO1) more particularly as the prosecution did not make any effort to clarify this anomaly by way of re-examination. If at all, the prosecution felt that the captioned admission extracted above as appearing in the cross-examination of the complainant (PW-1) was a material deviation from the case set up by the prosecution, then, the public prosecutor was under an obligation to re-examine the witness to remove the anomaly. Having failed to do so, the prosecution cannot be permitted to cry foul that the decoy complainant (PW-1) modulated his testimony in the cross-examination so as to favour the accused. It is admitted that the DySP (PW-10) and the other members of the trap party were standing outside the coffee shop and thus, they could not have seen the sequence of events wherein, the complainant (PW-1) picked up the bag of the AO1 (appellant). PW-2, of course denied this suggestion, but we cannot be oblivious to the fact that the star witness of the prosecution, namely, the complainant (PW-1) himself made a candid admission to the suggestion given by the defence in cross-examination, that he got unhindered access to the bag of the appellant (AO1) and that this fact remained contraversed by the prosecution. In addition to the above, this Court has to remain conscious of the fact that the prosecution made no effort whatsoever to get the wash taken from the hands of the appellant (AO1) and the rexine bag examined through the FSL. Hence, there is no satisfactory evidence on record to establish that the appellant (AO1) had actually handled the tainted currency notes as claimed by the complainant (PW-1). 55. After a threadbare analysis and evaluation of the evidence available on record, we feel that the prosecution case is full of embellishments contradicting and doubting and thus, it would not be safe to convict the appellant (AO1) for having demanded and accepted the bribe money from the complainant (PW-1). At the cost of repetition, we may state that the manner in which M. Ashok S/o Abbaiah was associated as a panch witness in the trap proceedings, creates a grave doubt that the entire case was orchestrated against the appellant (AO1) at the instance of the said M. Ashok. 56. In wake of the discussion made hereinabove, we are of the view that the prosecution has failed to bring home the charges against the [2024] 7 S.C.R. 667 Mir Mustafa Ali Hasmi v. The State of A.P. appellant (AO1) by leading evidence which can be termed to be of unimpeachable character. The AO1 (appellant), therefore, deserves to be acquitted of the charges. 57. Resultantly, the impugned s dated 2nd August, 2022 and 5th August, 2008 are hereby quashed and set aside.