The minorities can, however, choose to establish an educational institution which is purely of a general secular character and is not designed to conserve their distinct language, script or culture. The right to establish and administer such an institution is guaranteed by Article 30(1) and the fact that such an institution does not conserve the distinct language, script or culture of a minority would not take it out of the ambit of Article 30(1).” 162. The “choice” therefore, is with regard to the type of the institution and cannot be conflated with the “administration” of an institution. The assertion that once the choice includes having secular education in the institution, it would be necessary that non-minority persons are appointed for the purposes of teaching and administration is only partially correct. Indeed, when a minority seeks to provide secular education it would have to appoint non-minority teachers and some administration from outside the community, however, the same cannot mean that even the major decision-making, managerial and superior administrative setup can be “outsourced” by the minority. The lower rungs of administration and the teaching staff may certainly be of a non-minority character however, the higher echelons of administration and policy decision making of the institution ought to be in the hands of the minority community to claim minority status. Further, the “intent” of the minority community unless expressed and actually exercised as the “choice”, cannot govern the question of establishment. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1991 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. 163. The constitutionally sustainable approach qua the question of “establishment” therefore, cannot hinge only upon the “intent” or “choice” of the minority at the time. The intent and choice may be relevant only to a limited extent and cannot be the controlling factors in the judicial enquiry for determining the question of establishment. The question of establishment is to be adjudicated from a multitude of factors as noticed above and cannot be inferred from bald assertions regarding the “wishes” or “choices” or “efforts” of a minority community. 164. The question of establishment would constitute a factual inquiry to ascertain the predominant forces behind the bringing in to being of an institution. Admittedly, the admission or taking help of other members of other communities would not be fatal, but the prominence must be of the minority community in major aspects of the institution. The primary character of the institution and the predominant efforts in its establishment ought to originate from the minority community and must culminate [come in to being] through the said community. The “choice” and “wishes” during the process of establishment – if not accepted, would clearly indicate that the concerned minority community was not the predominant force behind the institution. G.4 The nature of administration at the time of establishment 165. The Appellants urge that it is open for a minority community, while exercising its choice, to hire teacher and other administrative staff from non-minority community while establishing a minority institution. There cannot be any doubt with regard to the said proposition however, while the teaching and administrative staff may be drawn from any community, the Court needs to be ultimately ascertain whether such a choice of having a secular staff was exercised by the minority community or was enforced by other stakeholders who were involved in the process of establishment.