451 Sanjay Kundu v. Registrar General, High Court of Himachal Pradesh & Ors instance. The proceedings were triggered by an email addressed by the complainant to the Chief Justice imputing allegations of the misuse of his official position as DGP against the petitioner. The allegations which were levelled by the complainant are that the petitioner, in his official capacity, intervened in a civil dispute and attempted to used his office to intimidate the complainant. The allegations are apparently serious and evidently formed the basis of the that the High Court originally passed on 26 December 2023. 31. Based on the status reports filed in the proceedings before it, the High Court came to a prima facie conclusion that the investigation into the FIRs could not be conducted fairly with the petitioner at the helm as the DGP. The High Court thus directed that the petitioner be moved to other posts to ensure a fair investigation. In doing so the High court has assumed disciplinary jurisdiction over the petitioner. This was clearly impermissible. As a serving police officer, the petitioner is subject to the disciplinary control which is wielded over him in terms of the rules governing service. The High Court has improperly assumed those powers to itself without considering the chain of administrative control in the hierarchy of the service. The State Government shifted the petitioner as Principal Secretary (Ayush) in compliance with the directions of the High Court. The consequence of shifting out of an IPS officer has serious consequences. The was passed without an opportunity to the petitioner to contest the allegations against him or to place his response before the Court. There was thus a manifest miscarriage of procedural justice. 32. By this Court’s dated 3 January 2024, the petitioner was relegated to the remedy of a recall application before the High Court since his grievance was the denial of an opportunity to be heard before the High Court, before it passed the dated 26 December 2023. 33. The correct course of action for the High Court would have been to recall its ex parte dated 26 December 2023 and to commence the proceedings afresh so as to furnish both the petitioner and the complainant and other affected parties including the SP, Kangra, an opportunity to place their perspectives before it. Instead, the High Court, while deciding the recall application, heavily relied on 452 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the status report submitted by the SP, Shimla on 4 January 2024. The High Court has, in the course of its , also relied on the earlier status reports which were referred to in its dated 26 December 2023. 34. The impugned suffers from a patent error of jurisdiction. The was passed without compliance with the principles of justice, especially, the principle of audi alteram partem. The dated 26 December 2023 had serious consequences, and it was passed without hearing the petitioner who stood to be affected by it. A post- decisional hearing of the kind conducted by the High Court lacks fresh and dispassionate application of mind to the merits of the recall application, and is for that very reason, likely to cause disquiet.