[Paras 48, 49, 51] Evidence – Disclosure statement by the appellant leading to the discovery and seizure of the knife-weapon of offence – Admissibility in evidence – Knife injury, if can be attributed to the appellant: Held: Disclosure statement of the appellant to the extent it led to the recovery of a knife correctly admitted in evidence – Prosecution version was accepted by the courts below – It cannot be ignored that both eyewitnesses, are illiterate labourers, and their testimonies were recorded after a considerable length of time had passed since [2024] 7 S.C.R. 221 Dharmendra Kumar @ Dhamma v. State of Madhya Pradesh the occurrence – Both the witnesses emphatically denied that they were tutored by Police or anyone else – Unfiltered testimony of a rustic witness, even if marred with some minor inconsistencies or discrepancies, cannot debilitate its perseverance – Evidence of such witnesses has to be evaluated comprehensively and carefully, especially when the cross-examination discreetly suggests that the accused persons did make a bid to win them over by exerting some extraneous pressure – Thus, the statements of the prosecution witness does not suffer from the discrepancy of such a nature that they should be discarded – Even the testimony of the Investigating Officer is devoid of any ulterior motive or attempt to fabricate evidence or falsely implicate the appellant and his co-accused – It would be too unfair and unreasonable to expect a witness, unless parroted, to recall every minute detail of the occurrence and present it with a totally accumulative narrative – Appellant’s submission that knife injury was not caused by him, bereft of any merit. [Paras 56-58] Evidence – Absence of blood group classification – Inconclusive FSL results on the recovered weapon – Effect on the prosecution case: Held: Upon a thorough examination of the FSL report, its confirmed that the blood group classification test conducted on the recovered knife yielded inconclusive results – However, the human blood was detected on the knife recovered at the instance of the appellant – Various weapons, including lathis and even the knife attributed to accused underwent an FSL examination, yet, no traces of human blood were found on them – Notably, human blood was solely found on the knife used by the appellant – Furthermore, non-explanation of human blood on the weapon of crime constitutes a circumstance against the accused – It is incumbent upon the accused to provide an explanation regarding the presence of human blood on the weapon – Appellant failed to do so – While it may not be a decisive factor to determine the guilt, but conspicuous silence does lend support to prosecution case. [Para 61] Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 – s. 161 – Statement made by deceased to a police officer u/s. 161, regarding cause of death – Admissibility as dying declaration: Held: s.161 empowers the Police to examine orally any person who is acquainted with the facts and circumstances of the case 222 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports under investigation – Police may reduce such statement into writing also – s. 162(1), nonetheless, mandates that no statement made by any person to a Police Officer, if reduced to writing, be signed by the person making it, nor shall such statement be used in evidence except to contradict a witness in the manner provided by s. 145 of the Evidence Act – However, Sub-Section (2) of s. 162 carves out an exception to Sub-Section (1) that nothing in s. 162 shall be deemed to apply to any statement falling within the ambit of clause (1) of s. 32 of the Evidence Act – Statement made by a person who is dead, as to the cause of his death or to the circumstances of the transaction which resulted in his death, to a Police Officer and which has been recorded u/s.