This was an introductory measure for legislatures in India because the Council of the Governor-General would hold distinct meetings to transact its executive functions and legislative functions. This procedure was envisaged for convenience in enacting laws in the vast and diverse social milieu in India rather than a desire to provide representation as a means for framing better laws. However, reflecting the need for legislative privileges in carrying out the duties of the legislators, the first law member, Lord Macaulay, made efforts to secure some special facilities in the nature of powers by his draft standing s. These special facilities included providing complete information on the subject of the legislation, the right to be present in all meetings of the Council of the Governor-General, freedom of speech, and freedom of voting.30 51. The privileges of attendance and voting even in non-legislative business were extended by the Charter Act 1853. It marked a further separation of the executive and legislative functions. The Legislative Council was to have additional members to help transact the legislative business and give their independent considerations to the laws under scrutiny. These members in the Legislative Council did not have any privileges by statute, but the absence of restrictions on their freedom of speech was construed as conferring inherent rights and privileges on them. The Council therefore attempted to assume to itself powers akin to a mini Parliament modelled around the House of Commons in the UK. The Legislative Council under the Acts of 1833 and 1853 had the power to frame their own rules of procedure. 52. This power was taken away in the Indian Council Act 1861. However, Section 10 of the 1861 Act introduced between six and twelve non- official members into the Legislative Councils, who could be British 30 SK Nag, Evolution of Parliamentary Privileges in India till 1947, Sterling Publication, (1978), 317-18 504 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports or Indians. There was an implicit recognition of the freedom of speech and vote of these additional members. The British Parliament had recognised the existence of the privilege for the members of the Indian Councils, which was also confirmed by the Secretary of State for India.31 Nevertheless the provisions of the 1861 Act were sufficiently stringent and did not allow the Council to have any activity beyond the limited sphere prescribed by the Act. Moreover, there was a marked difference between the freedom of speech effectively enjoyed by official members and nominated Indian members.32 53. The Government of India Act 1909 marked a significant shift in the evolution of India’s political institutions. The Act allowed more Indians to be a part of Legislative Councils and enlarged their functions. Members were allowed to ask questions and supplementary questions to the executive. The Act was a way forward for electoral and representative governance by prescribing the indirect election of Indians to the Council. However, even in these Councils, discussion on certain subjects was not permitted. Non-official members continued to assert the privilege of free speech in the Council.