437 M/s Daimler Chrysler India Pvt. Ltd. v. M/s Controls & Switchgear Company Ltd. & Anr. vertebra. The respondent no. 2 had to be hospitalized for more than six weeks and even after the discharge he was advised strict bedrest at home. It took very long time for him to recover and resume the work. According to the respondents-complainants, if the airbags had opened at the right time, as represented by the appellants-opponents, the respondent no. 2 might have suffered less or no injuries. The complainants had also filed an FIR with the police station at Nasik on 17.01.2006. On 20.01.2006, the car was taken by the respondent No. 3 being authorized service centre and a detailed inspection and assessment of cost for the repairs was made. It was also alleged that in number of cases the airbags had failed to deploy at the time of accidents and people had suffered grievous injuries or had died also. Due to the said accident, not only that respondent no.2 had suffered grave injuries, agony and mental trauma, his family members and the respondent-company itself, had suffered lot of inconvenience and financial loss. It appears that lot of correspondence had ensued between the parties, and ultimately the respondents-complainants had filed the complaint seeking compensation under the various heads. 29. On the maintainability of the complaint, though the learned Senior Advocate Mr. Dhruv Mehta had strenuously urged that the purchase of the car by the respondent no. 1 company for the use of the respondent no.2 i.e., its director would tantamount to purchase for commercial purpose, the said submission cannot be accepted in view of the elaborate discussion and reasonings recorded by us hereinbefore while dealing with the issue in C.A. No. 353/2008. In this case also the appellants had failed to bring on record any material to show that the dominant purpose or dominant use of the car in question was for commercial purpose or that the purchase of the car had any nexus or was linked with any profit generating activity of the respondent no. 1 company. We therefore confirm the finding recorded by the three-member Bench of the National Commission in the dated 08.07.2016 on the maintainability of the complaint filed by the respondent-complainant company. 30. On the merits of the claim made by the respondents – complainants, it was sought to be submitted by Learned Senior Advocate Mr. Dhruv Mehta for the appellants-original opponents that the complainants did not lead any expert evidence or any other evidence to establish that there was any defect in the front airbags of the car in question and in absence of any such evidence, the National Commission could 438 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports not have concluded that the front airbags of the car were defective. According to him, the Commission had committed gross error in discarding the report of the expert produced by the appellants, who had stated as to why deployment of the driver’s airbag was not required in this case.