1384 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 9.2 As can be observed from the above table, the parties and their family members have been involved in numerous litigations during the brief period of their marital relationship. The petitioner-wife filed FIR No.586/2022 against the respondent- husband and her father-in-law, detailing incidents of physical, sexual, mental and emotional abuse that she was subjected to during the period of her marriage and thus alleging commission of grave offences like cheating, cruelty, rape and unnatural offences under the IPC. Though the son of the respondent- husband from his first marriage was not made an accused in the said FIR, allegations of conspiracy were made against him as well. In addition to the said FIR, the petitioner has registered another case for criminal intimidation vide FIR No.586/2022 against one Mr. Paresh Somani, who is not just an employee in the respondent’s company but also the grandson of the respondent’s aunt. Apart from these two FIRs, the petitioner had admittedly also filed a non-cognizable report against her father-in-law for the offence of defamation. The filing of the complaints by the petitioner reflects her negative feelings towards the respondent and his family and the unfortunate state of the marital relationship between the parties is quite evident irrespective of the fate of her criminal complaints and her allegations. 9.3 On the other hand, the respondent filed a criminal complaint against the petitioner before the Magistrate, alleging criminal intimidation and cruelty on the part of the petitioner and detailing as to how the petitioner has threatened to kill herself and falsely implicate the respondent and his family for the same. The respondent thereafter has filed three divorce petitions before the Family Court seeking dissolution of his marriage with the petitioner. The fate of those petitions has been already discussed hereinabove. There is also an application under Section 340 of the CrPC filed in the present case by the respondent, being IA No.52377 of 2024, seeking the prosecution of the petitioner for the offence of perjury. 9.4 The respondent was also arrested pursuant to an FIR filed by the petitioner and had to file a bail application before the Sessions Court and spent almost a month in custody before he was released on bail. The filing of cases by the respondent [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1385 Rinku Baheti v. Sandesh Sharda also unambiguously reflects the bitterness that has seeped into the marital relationship. 9.5 In addition, the octogenarian father-in-law of the petitioner had also filed a complaint under the relevant provisions of the Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act, 2007, seeking the eviction of the petitioner from the matrimonial house. The for eviction was granted in favour of the father-in-law of the petitioner, but it was submitted that the matter is still pending adjudication in the appellate forum. The father-in-law, being one of the accused in the FIR filed by the petitioner, was also constrained to approach the Bombay High Court through a criminal writ petition seeking to quash the FIR filed by the petitioner.