[Paras 20-22] Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 – Object and scope of: Held: Provisions of PMLA are not only to investigate into the offence of money laundering but more importantly to prevent money laundering and to provide for confiscation of property derived from or involved in money laundering and the matters connected therewith and incidental thereto – PMLA is a self-contained Code and the dispensations envisaged thereunder, must prevail in terms of s. 71 thereof, which predicates that the provisions of the Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in any other law for the time being in force, which includes provisions of the Cr.P.C – s. 65 predicates that the provisions of the Cr.P.C. shall apply insofar as they are not inconsistent with the provisions of the PMLA in respect of arrest, search and seizure, attachment, confiscation, investigation, prosecution and all other proceedings under the Act – Thus, having regard to the conjoint reading of s. 71 and s. 65 of the PMLA as also s. 4(2) and s. 5 CrPC, the provisions of PMLA will have the effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in any other law for the time being in force, including the provisions of the Cr.P.C. [Para 13] 112 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 – Power to investigate under – Application of the provisions of Chapter XII CrPC: Held: Dispensation regarding Prevention of Money Laundering, Attachment of Proceeds of Crime, and Inquiry/Investigation of offence of Money Laundering including issuing summons, recording of statements, calling upon persons for production of documents etc. upto filing of the Complaint in respect of offence u/s. 3 of PMLA is fully governed by the provisions of the said Act itself – Jurisdictional police who is governed by the regime of Chapter XII CrPC, cannot register the offence of money laundering, nor can investigate into it, in view of the special procedure prescribed under the PMLA with regard to the registration of offence and inquiry/investigation thereof, and that the special procedure must prevail in terms of s. 71 PMLA – Submission that the sweep of s. 160 Cr.P.C would extend to summoning any person irrespective of whether that person is an accused of that offence or a mere witness, cannot be accepted since the provisions of Chapter XII CrPC (under which s. 160 falls) do not apply in all respects to deal with information derived relating to the commission of money laundering offence much less investigation thereof. [Paras 14, 15] Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 – s. 50 – Power of authorities regarding summons, production of documents and to give evidence – Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 – s.160/161 – Police officer’s power to require attendance of witnesses and examination of witnesses by police – Glaring inconsistencies between s. 50 PMLA and s. 160/161 Cr.P.C: Held: Apart from the fact that s. 50 is a gender neutral, as it does not make any distinction between a man and a woman, there are glaring inconsistencies between the provisions contained in s. 50 PMLA and s.160/161 Cr.P.C – Chapter XII Cr.P.C pertains to the “Information to the Police and their Powers to Investigate” wherein s.160 empowers the Police Officer making an investigation under the said Chapter to require any person to attend within the limits of his own or adjoining station who, from the information given or otherwise appears to be acquainted with the facts and circumstances of the case – Whereas, the process envisaged by s. 50 PMLA is in the nature of an inquiry against the proceeds of crime and is not “Investigation” in strict sense of the term for initiating prosecution; and the authorities referred to in s. 48 PMLA are not the Police Officers – Statements recorded by the [2024] 9 S.C.R.