B 2. Constitution of India – Art.39(b) – Interpretation of – Whether interpretation of Article 39(b) adopted by Justice Krishna Iyer in Ranganatha Reddy case and followed in Sanjeev Coke case must be reconsidered – Held [per Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI (for himself and for Hrishikesh Roy, J. B. Pardiwala, Manoj Misra, Rajesh Bindal, Satish Chandra Sharma, and Augustine George Masih, JJ.)] (Majority opinion) – The majority in Ranganatha Reddy expressly distanced itself from the observations made by Justice Krishna Iyer (speaking on behalf of the minority of judges) on the interpretation of Art.39(b) – Thus, a coequal bench of this Court in Sanjeev Coke erred by relying on the minority opinion – Held (per B.V. Nagarathna, J.) (Dissenting) – On merits it cannot be held that Sanjeev Coke violated judicial discipline – One cannot lose sight of the fact that in Sanjeev Coke [2024] 11 S.C.R. 7 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. this Court did not decide the case only on the basis of the opinion of Krishna Iyer, J. in Ranganatha Reddy – Therefore, Sanjeev Coke is good law insofar as on the merits of the matter is concerned – Held (per Sudhanshu Dhulia, J.) (Dissenting) – In Sanjeev Coke, when the Five Judge Constitution Bench unanimously followed the minority judgement in Ranganatha Reddy, it did not violate judicial discipline of not following the majority, since in Sanjeev Coke, the Five Judges did not go against the law laid down by the majority Judges in Ranganatha Reddy but only adopted the logic of the Three Judges on which the majority of Four Judges were silent – The five learned judges in Sanjeev Coke relied upon the decision of the minority judges in Ranganath Reddy as they were persuaded by the logic and the interpretation given by Justice Krishna Iyer to the phrase “material resources of the community” – The broad and inclusive meaning given to the expression “material resources of the community” by Justice Krishna Iyer and Justice O. Chinnappa Reddy in Ranganatha Reddy and Sanjeev Coke respectively has lost none of its relevance, or jurisprudential value, nor has it lost the audience which appreciates these values. B 3. Constitution of India – Art.39(b) – Phrase ‘material resources of the community’ in Article 39(b) – Meaning of – Single-sentence observation in Mafatlal case to the effect that ‘material resources of the community’ include privately owned resources – Effect of – Held [per Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI (for himself and for Hrishikesh Roy, J. B. Pardiwala, Manoj Misra, Rajesh Bindal, Satish Chandra Sharma, and Augustine George Masih, JJ.)] (Majority opinion) – The single-sentence observation in Mafatlal case to the effect that ‘material resources of the community’ include privately owned resources is not part of the ratio decidendi of the judgement – Thus, it is not binding on the Court – Held (per Sudhanshu Dhulia, J.) (Concurring) – The majority opinion in Mafatlal constitutes obiter dicta and is not binding on this Court – Held (per B.V. Nagarathna, J.)