Appreciation of evidence requires sifting and weighing of material facts against each other and a conclusion of guilt could be arrived at only when the entire set of facts, lined together, points towards the only conclusion of guilt. Appreciation of partial evidence is no appreciation at all, and is bound to lead to absurd results. A word of caution in this regard was sounded by this Court in Sanwat Singh v. State of Rajasthan9, wherein it was observed thus: “9. The foregoing discussion yields the following results : (1) an appellate court has full power to review the evidence upon which the of acquittal is founded; (2) the principles laid down in Sheo Swarup case [LR 61 IA 398] afford a correct guide for the appellate court’s approach to a case in disposing of such an appeal; and (3) the different phraseology used in the s of this Court, 9 [1961] 3 SCR 120 : AIR 1961 SC 715 [2024] 2 S.C.R. 307 Mallappa & Ors. v. State of Karnataka such as, (i) “substantial and compelling reasons”, (ii) “good and sufficiently cogent reasons”, and (iii) “strong reasons”, are not intended to curtail the undoubted power of an appellate court in an appeal against acquittal to review the entire evidence and to come to its own conclusion; but in doing so it should not only consider every matter on record having a bearing on the questions of fact and the reasons given by the court below in support of its of acquittal in its arriving at a conclusion on those facts, but should also express those reasons in its , which lead it to hold that the acquittal was not justified.” (emphasis supplied) 36. Our criminal jurisprudence is essentially based on the promise that no innocent shall be condemned as guilty. All the safeguards and the jurisprudential values of criminal law, are intended to prevent any failure of justice. The principles which come into play while deciding an appeal from acquittal could be summarized as: (i) Appreciation of evidence is the core element of a criminal trial and such appreciation must be comprehensive – inclusive of all evidence, oral or documentary; (ii) Partial or selective appreciation of evidence may result in a miscarriage of justice and is in itself a ground of challenge; (iii) If the Court, after appreciation of evidence, finds that two views are possible, the one in favour of the accused shall ordinarily be followed; (iv) If the view of the Trial Court is a legally plausible view, mere possibility of a contrary view shall not justify the reversal of acquittal; (v) If the appellate Court is inclined to reverse the acquittal in appeal on a re-appreciation of evidence, it must specifically address all the reasons given by the Trial Court for acquittal and must cover all the facts; 308 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (vi) In a case of reversal from acquittal to conviction, the appellate Court must demonstrate an illegality, perversity or error of law or fact in the decision of the Trial Court.