[2024] 10 S.C.R. 1029 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 (iii) Lastly, sub-section (8) is the non-obstante clause in this provision, which states that this section would have effect irrespective of anything contained in any other law for the time being in force. 27. Having understood the interplay between the modes of citizenship, as conferred by the Indian Constitution, the Citizenship Act and the provision of Section 6A itself, we will now examine the genesis of this controversy, the contentions put forth by the parties and the key issues that demand scrutiny. B. TERMS OF REFERENCE 28. The first writ petition before this court in the present matter was filed in 2009 by Assam Public Works, an NGO, seeking the deletion of illegal migrants from electoral rolls in Assam and the updation of the National Register of Citizens (NRC), 1951. Thereafter, in 2012, the Assam Sanmilita Mahasangha and other organisations challenged the constitutionality of Section 6A on the grounds that it was discriminatory, arbitrary, and illegal. Following this, a 2-judge bench of this court started monitoring the NRC updation process. This Court, vide judgement dated 17.12.2014 in Assam Sanmilita Mahasangha v. Union of India,33 framed 13 questions regarding the constitutionality of Section 6A as arising from the abovementioned writ petitions and referred them for adjudication by a Constitution Bench. For reference, the questions as they were framed are put forth hereinbelow: "i. Whether Articles 10 and 11 of the Constitution of India permit the enactment of Section 6A of the Citizenship Act in as much as Section 6A, in prescribing a cut-off date different from the cut-off date prescribed in Article 6, can do so without a “variation” of Article 6 itself; regard, in particular, being had to the phraseology of Article 4(2) read with Article 368(1)? ii. Whether Section 6A violates Articles 325 and 326 of the Constitution of India in that it has diluted the political rights of the citizens of the State of Assam; 33 Assam Sanmilita Mahasangha v. Union of India (2015) 3 SCC 1, para 33. 1030 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports iii. What is the scope of the fundamental right contained in Article 29(1)? Is the fundamental right absolute in its terms? In particular, what is the meaning of the expression "culture" and the expression "conserve"? Whether Section 6A violates Article 29(1)? iv. Whether Section 6A violates Article 355? What is the true interpretation of Article 355 of the Constitution? Would an influx of illegal migrants into a State of India constitute “external aggression” and/or “internal disturbance”? Does the expression “State” occurring in this Article refer only to a territorial region or does it also include the people living in the State, which would include their culture and identity? v. Whether Section 6A violates Article 14 in that, it singles out Assam from other b States (which comprise a distinct class) and discriminates against it. Also, whether there is no rational basis for having a separate cut-off date for regularizing illegal migrants who enter Assam as opposed to the rest of the country; and vi.