Since the said representations were sent by the ordinary post, they cannot be tracked to know where the said ordinary posts have stuck. Hence the question of non-disposal of the representations by the concerned authorities do not arise.” 47. It is thus clear that the detenu had made representations on 27th September 2023, addressed to the Detaining Authority, Central Government and the Advisory Board. The Jail Authorities had merely forwarded the said representations through ordinary post. The said representations neither reached the Detaining Authority nor the Central Government. The perusal of the statements made in the counter affidavit would clearly show that since the said representations were sent by ordinary post, they also could not be tracked. It is further stated in the counter affidavit that after the notice was issued by this Court in the present matter, the ground with regard to non- disposal of the representations of the detenu came to the notice of the concerned Authorities. As such, the representations were sought from the Jail Authorities through email. After receiving the same from the Jail Authorities, the same were placed before the concerned authorities, which were rejected on 11th June 2024 and 12th June 2024 respectively. It is further averred in the counter affidavit that 342 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the Memoranda dated 12th June 2024 to that effect were sent to the detenu/the husband of the appellant. 48. It is thus clear that the representations dated 27th September 2023 of the detenu was rejected by the Detaining Authority and the Central Government on 11th June 2024 and 12th June 2024 respectively i.e. after a period of almost 9 months from the date of making the same. 49. In this respect, it will be apposite to refer to the observation of this Court in the case of Tara Chand vs. State of Rajasthan and others22 wherein this Court was considering the delay of one month and five days in communicating the representation of the detenu from the jail to the detaining authority. This Court observed that: “9. In spite of these evasive answers contained in para 21, it is clear that the representation dated February 23, 1980 of the detenu made by him through the jail authorities reached the detaining authority only on March 27, 1980. It was substantially in the same terms as the representation addressed to the Central Government for revocation of the detention under Section 11. This delay of one month and five days in communicating the representation of the detenu from the jail to the detaining authority demonstrates the gross negligence and extreme callousness with which the representation made by the detenu was dealt with by the respondents or their agents. Even after this huge delay, the representation was sent to the Collector for comments, and no intimation has been sent to the detenu about the fate of his representation dated February 23, 1980, addressed to the detaining authority. In fact, as it appears from the counter, the detaining authority refused to consider the same merely because the detenu had requested that this representation be forwarded to the Advisory Board, also.