in the Legal Aid Defence Counsel system, whenever it is felt necessary and appropriate. vi. For the success of the functioning of the legal aid mechanism, awareness is the key. A robust mechanism should be put in place and periodically updated to ensure that the various beneficial schemes promoted by the Legal Services Authorities reaches the nook and corner of the nation and particularly, to those whose grievances it has set out to address. Adequate literature including in the local languages in the States and appropriate promotional methods should be launched so that the consumers of justice to whom the schemes are intended can make best use of the same. vii. In this regard, inter alia, the following measures to create awareness could be undertaken through the length and breadth of the nation to spread the message of the availability of legal aid: (a) In public places like police stations, post offices, bus stands, railway stations etc. boards in prominent places be displayed furnishing the address for contact and the phone numbers of the nearest legal aid office. This should be done in the local language and in English. (b) Promotional campaigns in the local language be undertaken through Radio/All India Radio/Doordarshan. This will be in addition to the promotional measures undertaken through the digitalization process – like hosting of websites and prominent mention thereon on the landing page of the legal services authority wherever permissible. (c) To create complete awareness about the existence of legal aid schemes, promotional campaigns may include such other creative measures including organization of street corner plays (nukkad natak) in rural areas so that the poor rural masses comprehend the facility available to them through the legal aid scheme. These should be undertaken without dislocating the normal life of citizens. Further, these measures will not only create awareness about legal aid to the accused but will also create awareness for the victims and for those whose civil rights have been infringed. 1800 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports viii. The Legal Services Authorities will periodically review and update SOP-2022 for the Undertrial Review Committee [UTRC]. ix. The huge gap between total number of persons identified by the UTRC and the number of persons recommended for release should be looked into and adequate corrective measures be taken. Similarly, the difference between the number of prisoners/ inmates recommended for release and the number of bail applications filed should be particularly looked into by NALSA/ SLSAs/DLSAs and adequate corrective measures taken. x. The “Early Access to Justice at Pre-arrest, Arrest and Remand Stage Framework” established by NALSA for pre-litigation assistance should be diligently pursued and the work undertaken under the framework be periodically reviewed. xi. Interaction by the Legal Service Authorities at different levels with convicts who had not preferred appeals should be periodically undertaken and the convicts be informed of their right to free legal aid. xii. Periodic interaction should be held with Jail Visiting Lawyers (JVLs) and Para Legal Volunteers (PLVs). This is to ensure updation of their knowledge so that the system functions efficiently as a whole.