Respondent no.7 i.e. Army Welfare Education Society is again a private unaided Society registered under the Registration Act, hence does not come under the writ jurisdiction it does not have any grant from the Government of India, State Government and, therefore, not a State or its instrumentalities as defined in Article 12 of the Constitution of India. In to substantiate this argument, learned counsel for the respondents Mr. Manoj Tiwari, Senior Advocate and Mr. Pullak Raj Mullick have relied upon a Division Bench of Allahabad High Court, namely, Army School, Kunaraghat, Gorakhpur Vs. Smt. Shilpi Paul, 2004 (5) AWC 4934, where it was held that an Army school is purely a private body and not “State” under Article 12 of the Constitution of India, hence writ petition was not maintainable against it. Since it has been held that a writ petition is not maintainable against an Army school by a Division Bench of Allahabad High Court the present writ petition is not maintainable, which is also against an Army School and is exactly on the same footing as the present school i.e. respondent no. 5, which is now known as “Army School No.2”. In paragraph nos. 23, 25 and 26 of the above the Division Bench of Allahabad High Court said as under:- “23. We have carefully considered these s as well as the other decisions relied on by the learned counsels for the parties. We have also considered the decision of the learned single judge of this Court in Abu [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2193 Army Welfare Education Society New Delhi v. Sunil Kumar Sharma & Ors. Etc. Zaid v. Principal Madrasa-Tul-Islah Sarai Mir, Azamgarh, Civil Misc. Writ Petition No. 14238 of 1998, decided on 28.7.1998. In the decision of Abu Zaid v. Principal Madrasa-Tul-Islah Sarai Mir, Azamgarh (supra) the learned single Judge has held that a writ petition lies even against a private educational institution since the educational institution is discharging a public duty of imparting education which has been held to be a fundamental right by the Supreme Court. We do not agree. In our opinion every school cannot be regarded as State under Article 12 of the Constitution and a writ petition will not lie against a purely private educational institution not receiving funds from the Government or a Government agency as it cannot be deemed to be an instrumentality of the State. 25. We agree with the view taken by the learned single Judge in V.K. Walia v. Chairman, Army School Mathura Cannt. (supra) and we do not agree with the view taken by the learned single Judge in Smt. Rajni Sharma v. Union of India (supra) since we are of the opinion that the Army School, Gorakhpur, is not State under Article 12 of the Constitution as it does not receive funds from the Government nor does the Government have any control much less deep and pervasive control over it. 26. A similar view was taken by a Division Bench of the Jammu and Kashmir High Court in Writ Petition No.