v. Shakti Cooperative House Building Society Ltd [2009] 6 SCR 12 : (2009) 12 SCC 369, paras 18-23. 14 ibid. 15 Lakhanpal National Ltd (supra), para 7. 154 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports a false or misleading representation.”16 Therefore, only substantive and material discrepancies are covered under ‘unfair trade practice’. 18. The ingredients of ‘unfair trade practice’ under Section 2(1)(r)(1) are not made out in this case. The promotional trailer does not fall under any of the instances of “unfair method or unfair and deceptive practice” contained in clause (1) of Section 2(1)(r) that pertains to unfair trade practice in the promotion of goods and services. Nor does it make any false statement or intend to mislead the viewers. Furthermore, the burden is on the complainant to produce cogent evidence that proves unfair trade practice17 but nothing has been brought on record in the present case to show the same. Therefore, no case for unfair trade practice is made out in the present case. 19. There is another important distinction that we must bear in mind, i.e., the judicial precedents on this point do not relate to transactions of service relating to art. Services involving art necessarily involve the freedom and discretion of the service provider in their presentation. This is necessary and compelling by the very nature of such services. The variations are substantial, and rightly so. Therefore, the standard by which a court of law judges the representation, followed by the service, must be different and must account for the creative element involved in such transactions. 20. In view of the above reasons and conclusions, we set aside the findings of the impugned that there is deficiency of service and unfair trade practice, and allow the present appeal. 21. Pending applications, if any, stand disposed of. Headnotes prepared by: Ankit Gyan Result of the case: Appeal allowed. 16 KLM Royal Dutch Airlines (supra), para 20. 17 Ludhiana Improvement Trust (supra), para 23.