Even here the court will have to consider the satisfaction under Section 440 of the Code.” (emphasis added) 20. Once cognizance is taken of the offence punishable under Section 4 of the PMLA, the Special Court is seized of the matter. After the cognizance is taken, the ED and other authorities named in Section 19 cannot exercise the power of arrest of the accused shown in the complaint. The reason is that the accused shown in the Complaint are under the jurisdiction of the Special Court dealing with the complaint. Therefore, after cognizance of the complaint under 44(1) (b) of the PMLA is taken by the Court, the ED and other authorities named in Section 19 are powerless to arrest an accused named in the complaint. Hence, in such a case, an apprehension that the ED will arrest such an accused by exercising powers under Section 19 can never exist. 21. We are informed across the Bar by the learned counsel of the appellants that some of the Special Courts under the PMLA are [2024] 6 S.C.R. 889 Tarsem Lal v. Directorate of Enforcement Jalandhar Zonal Office following the practice of taking the accused into custody after they appear pursuant to the summons issued on the complaint. Therefore, the accused are compelled to apply for bail or for anticipatory bail apprehending arrest upon issuance of summons. We cannot countenance a situation where, before the filing of the complaint, the accused is not arrested; after the filing of the complaint, after he appears in compliance with the summons, he is taken into custody and forced to apply for bail. Hence, such a practice, if followed by some Special Courts, is completely illegal. Such a practice may offend the right to liberty guaranteed by Article 21 of the Constitution of India. If the ED wants custody of the accused who appears after service of summons for conducting further investigation in the same offence, the ED will have to seek custody of the accused by applying to the Special Court. After hearing the accused, the Special Court must pass an on the application by recording brief reasons. While hearing such an application, the Court may permit custody only if it is satisfied that custodial interrogation at that stage is required, even though the accused was never arrested under Section 19. However, when the ED wants to conduct a further investigation concerning the same offence, it may arrest a person not shown as an accused in the complaint already filed under Section 44(1)(b), provided the requirements of Section 19 are fulfilled. ON FACTUAL ASPECTS OF THE APPEALS 22. Coming back to the facts of the cases before us, warrants were issued to the appellants as they did not appear before the Special Court after the service of summons. As held earlier, the appellants could have applied for cancellation of warrants issued against them as the warrants were issued only to secure their presence before the Special Court. Instead of applying for cancellation of warrants, the appellants applied for anticipatory bail.