Paper seals are also signed by the candidates or their representatives. 38. The paper seals used from time to time at different stages have a serial number. They also have security features and cannot be replicated. As paper seals are used at different stages, they are given different colours. 39. The polled EVM22 units are sealed and stored in the strong room in the presence of the candidates or their representatives. The candidates or their representatives are also allowed to put their seals on the lock of the strong room. The strong room is guarded by minimum one platoon of armed security and has CCTV coverage. The candidates or their representatives are allowed to stay and watch the strong room and in case where the entrance to the strong room is not visible, CCTV display facility is provided. 40. The VVPAT paper slips are in a roll form of 1500 slips. The control unit can store up to 2000 votes. In view of the restriction on the number of VVPAT paper slips, each EVM can be used for casting of up to 1500 votes and not more. The control unit is configured in a way that each vote would take about 15 seconds. Thus, in one minute only four votes can be cast. This prevents and checks bogus voting. 22 The EVM, as earlier observed and we clarify here, means the ballot unit, the control unit and the VVPAT unit. [2024] 5 S.C.R. 437 Association For Democratic Reforms v. Election Commission of India And Another 41. As explained earlier and to recapitulate, after each vote is cast by pressing the button on the ballot unit, the VVPAT glass window illuminates and the name, serial number, and symbol of the candidate voted is displayed for 7 seconds to the voter. The display of VVPAT slip informs and assures the voter that the vote as cast has been recorded. Thereafter, the VVPAT printer cuts the slip from the roll and the VVPAT slip drops in the box compartment of the VVPAT. The fall sensor in the VVPAT printer drop box senses and chronicles the fall of the slip in the drop box, and thereupon the control unit records the button/ key pressed on the ballot unit. The burnt memory, as noticed above, which records this data is agnostic to the candidates/political parties. The control unit records the serial number of the button/key pressed on the ballot unit by each voter. The presiding officer by pressing the ‘TOTAL’ key on the control unit can ascertain the total number of votes recorded in the control unit. However, the breakup of votes cast in favour of each candidate is not known. On the counting day, in the presence of the candidates/their representatives, the ‘RESULT’ key on the control unit is pressed. The control unit displays the number of times each button/key was pressed in the ballot unit on the polling day, thus depicting the result. EVMs are standalone machines which cannot be connected to internet.