The party defrauded may keep the question open so long as he does nothing to affirm the contact.” (Clough v. L. & N.W. Ry.) [(1871) LRs 7 Ex 26, 34] . 5. The legal position will be different if there is a fraudulent misrepresentation not merely as to the [2024] 9 S.C.R. 969 Khursheed & Anr. v. Shaqoor contents of the document but as to its character. The authorities make a clear distinction between fraudulent misrepresentation as to the character of the document and fraudulent misrepresentation as to the contents thereof. With reference to the former, it has been held that the transaction is void, while in the case of the latter, it is merely voidable. (emphasis supplied) 10. This Court, in Dularia Devi v. Janardan Singh & Ors. AIR 1990 SC 1173 relying upon the law laid down in Ningawwa (supra) and Gorakh Nath Dube (supra) had held that a “voidable” document continues to be in force until it is set aside and such a document can only be set aside by a competent civil court. Further, such documents were held to be binding upon the Consolidation Authorities so long as they are not cancelled or set aside by a Court vested with the jurisdiction to do so. Moreover, in Ram Sakal Singh v. Mosamat Monako Devi (1997) 5 SCC 192 this Court has held that the consolidation authorities do not have the jurisdiction and power to cancel a document, which is required to be set aside or cancelled and the document will continue to be valid till it is cancelled by a Competent Court i.e. a Civil Court. This court also held that if the document is void, it would be open for the Consolidation Authorities to disregard such a document & in such a case, they would get the exclusive jurisdiction to proceed with the matter. But if the document is voidable, the Civil Court is vested with the jurisdiction to declare the same to be voidable. In the case of voidable documents, not only would the Consolidation Authorities have no power to cancel such documents, but even the proceedings pending before any competent Civil Court would not abate. 11. The allegation here is that the fraudulent misrepresentation was by petitioner No. 1’s mother, who executed the sale deed dated 09.08.2016 by impersonation, it would make the sale deed voidable, but not void. As such, in view of the law laid down by this Court in Gorakh Nath Dube (supra), the Sale Deed dated 09.08.2016 will be binding on the Consolidation Authorities unless it is set aside by a competent Civil Court and there would be no bar on jurisdiction of the Civil Court to try a suit for cancellation of such a sale deed. 970 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 12. In view of the aforesaid, we see no reason to interfere with the impugned dated 02.08.2019 passed by the High Court of Uttarakhand. The Special Leave Petition, accordingly, stands dismissed. 13. Pending application(s), if any, shall stand disposed of.