This is also clear from reading Section 4, which states the date from which interest is payable. As per Section 4, the buyer is liable to pay interest if he fails to pay the amount to the supplier as required by Section 3. Non-obstante part of Section 4 only deals with the stipulation in a contract whereby liability to pay interest is barred/prohibited. It does not, in any way, override the contractual clause with regard to the date of payment. In other words, in case the contract states that interest will not be payable even in the case of belated payment, then Section 4 of the Act will come into operation, overriding the negative contractual clause. [2024] 3 S.C.R. 459 Snehadeep Structures Pvt. Limited v. Maharashtra Small Scale Industries Development Corporation Ltd. 7. The effect of the proviso to Section 3, made applicable with effect from 10.08.1998, is that the supplier and the buyer may agree by contract on the date of payment, but in no case can the date of payment exceed 120 days from the day of acceptance or the day of deemed acceptance. The terms ‘the appointed date’, ‘the acceptance date’ and ‘the deemed date of acceptance’ have been defined vide clause (b) to Section 2 of the 1993 Act. 8. After enactment of the proviso to Section 3, the contractual rights of the parties to agree to the date of payment, have been restricted in terms of the said proviso. In other words, if the contractual date of payment exceeds 120 days from the day of acceptance or the day of deemed acceptance, interest would be payable for the period beyond 120 days from the day of acceptance or the date of deemed acceptance. 9. When we turn to the facts of the present case, the supply/purchase dated 30.03.1995 issued by MSSIDCL to SSPL, had stated as under: - “25. The price of the goods delivered and accepted by the consignee and when received from the consignee will be paid to the supplier by the Corporation subject to deductions of advances, if any, paid by the Corporation and the service changes [sic] and other moneys payable to the Corporation by the supplier. No advance payment will be made for any supply of the goods unless otherwise agreed by the Corporation.” 10. The contract had, therefore, postulated and the parties had agreed that MSSIDCL would be liable to pay SSPL only after the goods are delivered and accepted by the consignee, namely, Maharashtra State Electricity Board4 and on the payment being received by MSSIDCL from the MSEB. 11. If the proviso to Section 3 applies, this contractual clause will get modified in terms of the proviso to Section 3, which has fixed the upper time limit for payment to 120 days from the day of acceptance or the day of deemed acceptance. However, the question would 4 For short, “MSEB”. 460 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports arise as to whether the said proviso would be applicable to the agreement in question, which was entered into between the parties on 30.03.1995, albeit the proviso was enacted and enforced with effect from 10.08.1998.