The Code of Civil Procedure allows a plaintiff, in certain circumstances, to combine in one action two or more distinct and independent claims, and it is quite possible that one of the claims may be barred by limitation, and the other may be within time; though both of them arise out of one and the same cause of action. In a case of that description there is no reason why the court should not apply to each claim the rule of limitation specially applicable thereto. It is nowhere laid down that only one article should govern the whole of the suit, though it may consist of several independent claims, and that the suit should not be split up into its component parts for the purpose of the law of limitation. The question, however, is whether the action as brought by the plaintiff can be treated as a combination of two distinct claims. Now, the plaint makes no mention of the price of the materials as distinct from the price of the work and contains no reference whatsoever to two claims. There is only one indivisible claim, and that is for the balance of the money due to the plaintiff on the basis of a contract, by which he was to be paid for everything supplied and Article Description of Suit Period of Limitation Time from which Period begins to run 56 For the price of work done by the Three years When the work is plaintiff for the defendant at his done. request where no time has been fixed for payment. [2024] 9 S.C.R. 575 OPG Power Generation Private Limited v. Enexio Power Cooling Solutions India Private Limited & Anr. done by him in connection with the flooring of the building at a comprehensive rate. The claim, as laid in the plaint is an indivisible one; it cannot be split up into two portions. We must, therefore, hold that it falls neither under article 52, nor under article 56. The learned advocate for the plaintiff contends that as neither of the above articles governs the claim, it should come within article 120.85 The in Radha Kishen v. Basant Lal, which is relied upon in support of this contention, no doubt, related to a suit for the recovery of a sum of money alleged to be due for the work performed and material supplied by the plaintiff to the defendant under a contract, and the learned judges held that neither article 52 nor article 56 was applicable to the entire claim. They then made the following observation – “There is no other articles specially applicable, and hence the only article which can be applied is article 120.” Now with all deference to the learned judges we are unable to hold that there is no other article governing a claim of that character. It seems that their attention was not drawn to article 115,86 which governs every 85 First Schedule of Limitation Act, 1908 Article Description of Suit Period of Limitation Time from which Period begins to run 120 Suit for which no period of Six years When the right to sue limitation is provided elsewhere in accrues.