The comparative analysis of judicial pronouncements across jurisdictions reveals that, while party autonomy is often respected in the appointment of arbitrators, courts are also wary of provisions granting one-sided control over the arbitral panel. Rulings from the U.S., Switzerland, France, and the UK highlight differing views on this matter. This diversity in views across jurisdictions reinforces the need for caution in relying on foreign precedents or laws. J. On the opinion of the Hon’ble CJI 54. I have had the benefit of the exhaustive and erudite of the Hon’ble Chief Justice Dr. D.Y. Chandrachud. I have already given reasons for my decision. I find it necessary to indicate certain issues about the perspective and the final conclusion. 105 [2007] EWCA 1148. 2324 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 54.1 At the outset, I reiterate the necessary distinction between the duty of the parties to arbitration agreement to constitute an independent arbitral tribunal and the duty of the arbitrator to act judicially. In this case, we are concerned with the former and not about the duty of the arbitrator. 54.2 Holding that an arbitral tribunal has the “trappings of a court” as it determines the competing rights and liabilities of parties through an ‘adjudicatory process’, and therefore it must act judicially has the problems of introducing public law principles in contractual dispute resolution. This formulation has engendered the application of principles of procedural equality, equal treatment under Article 14, fairness, non-arbitrariness, justice, reasonableness, impartiality and bias, all of which have been subsequently invoked in the as core values. I tried to locate the obligations of contracting parties to the arbitration agreement within the province of contract law and public policy considerations therein. This approach, I believe, is better suited for the determination of disputes in arbitration law, as it balances and protects the twin values of party autonomy through judicial restraint, and the duty the parties to constitute an independent arbitral tribunal without compromising any one in favour of the other. 54.3 There is a certain difficulty in invoking Section 18 of the Act and applying it as an equality principle mandating equal opportunity to both the contracting parties at the time of constituting the arbitral tribunal. Section 18 is the obligation of the arbitrator in conduct of arbitral proceedings. I have already highlighted the important distinction between the duty of the arbitrator to act judicially and the obligations of the parties to constitute an independent arbitral tribunal. That apart, the text and the context of Section 18 as is evident from the scheme of the Act eschews application of Section 18 at the time of appointment. This is clear through two factors: first, through the placement of Section 18 in Chapter V, on ‘Conduct of arbitral proceedings’, which comes after Chapter III on ‘Composition of arbitral tribunal’; and second, through the wording of Section 18, which makes it clear that the obligation to treat the parties with equality is on the arbitral tribunal, rather than the parties to the arbitration agreement.