committees affected thereby]. (4) Subject to the provisions of [(1-B) Notwithstanding anything sub-sections (1), (2) and (3), the contained in Section 3 and in sub- Government may, by notification – section (1) and (1-A) of Section 4 of the Act, the Government, may, (a) exclude from a notified area, any by notification, also constitution a area comprised therein; or separate market committee to a (b) include in any notified area, any special market in a notified area.] area specified in such notification; or (2) It shall be the duty of the market (c) declare a new notified area by committee to enforce the provisions separation of area from any notified of this Act and rules and bye-laws area or by uniting two or more notified made thereunder in the notified area areas or parts thereof or by uniting (3) (a) Every market committee shall any area to a part of any notified area; establish in the notified area excluding Provided that where, as result of the scheduled areas such number of declaration of a new notified area markets as the Government may, from under this clause, the entire area time to time, direct for the purchase comprised in an existing notified area and sale of any notified agricultural is united to one or more notified areas, produce, livestock or products of the said existing notified are shall stand livestock and shall provide such abolished. facilities in the market as may be specified by the Government, from time to time, by a general or special . [2024] 3 S.C.R. 183 Sangam Milk Producer Company Ltd. v. The Agricultural Market Committee & Ors. (b) Every market committee shall also establish in the notified area such number of markets as the Government may, from time to time, direct for the purchase and sale, solely of vegetables or fruits and shall provide such facilities in the market as may be specified by the Government, from time to time, by a general or special . [(bb) Every market committee may also establish in the notified area such number of special market as the Government may from time to time direct for the purchase and sale of any notified agricultural produce, livestock or products of livestock or fruits and vegetable and may provide such facilities in the special market as may be specified by the Government from time to time, by a general or special .] [(bbb) Every Market Committee may also declare in the notified area any warehouse or cold storage or processing unit or any other place as a market by following the procedure as may be prescribed. ]3 [(c) The Market Committee shall specify the limits of every market established or declared as a market by it and the Government may notify the market with such limits, to be notified market area for the purposes of this Act. ]4 3 Added by the Andhra Pradesh (Agricultural Produce and Livestock) Markets (Amendment) Act, 2015. 4 Subs. by Ibid. 184 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports [(4) As soon as may be after the establishment of a market under sub-section (3), the Government shall declare by the notification the market area such other area adjoining thereto as may be specified in the notification, to be notified market area for the purpose of this Act in respect of any notified agricultural produce, livestock or products of livestock.