It was observed therein that, on the final scheme coming into force, the lands affected by the said scheme which are needed by the local authority for the purposes of the scheme automatically vest in the local authority and there is no need to set in motion the provisions of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894. 2 [1985] Supp. 3 SCR 1025 : (1986) 1 SCC 581 614 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports The Bench pointed out that the Town Planning Officer is authorized to determine whether any reconstituted plot can be given to a person whose land is affected by the scheme, as all rights of private owners in the original plots would determine and certain consequential rights in favour of the owners would arise therefrom. The Bench noted that, if reconstituted or final plots are allotted to them in the scheme, they become owners of such final plots, subject to the rights settled by the Town Planning Officer in the final scheme, and in some cases the original plot of an owner might be completely allotted by the local authority for a public purpose and such private owner may be paid compensation or given a reconstituted plot in some other place. Significantly, it was noted that such a reconstituted plot may be a smaller or a bigger plot and, in some cases, it may not be possible to allot a final plot at all. Reference was made to the provisions of the said Act, which provided for certain financial adjustments regarding payment of money to the local authority or to the owners of the original plots and it was noted that the development and planning carried out under the Act is primarily for the benefit of the public and the local authority is under an obligation to function according to the Act and bear a part of the expenses of the development. The Bench observed that, in one sense, it is a package deal. 26. In Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation and another vs. Ahmedabad Green Belt Khedut Mandal and others3, a 3-Judge Bench of this Court considered the provisions of the Act of 1976. It was observed that the provisions of the Act of 1976, read conjointly, give a clear picture that the Town Planning Scheme is just like consolidation proceedings as the land belonging to various persons is first put into a pool and then allocated for different purposes and, in such a way, after having all deductions, the loss and profit of individual tenure- holders is to be calculated. It was noted that a Town Planning Scheme would provide for pooling the entire land covered by the scheme and, thereafter, reshuffling and reconstituting of plots and the market value of the original plots and final plots is to be assessed and the authority has to determine as to whether a land owner has suffered some injury or has gained from such process. It was also pointed out that reconstitution of plots is permissible, as provided under the scheme of the Act and as is evident from a reading of Sections 3 [2014] 11 SCR 855 : (2014) 7 SCC 357 [2024] 6 S.C.R.