V. Whether, the statutory presumption contained in Section 30 of the POCSO can be invoked only at the stage of trial by the Special Court alone established under the POCSO? In other words, whether it is permissible for the High Court in a quashing petition filed under Section 482 of the Cr.P.C. to resort to the statutory presumption of culpable mental state contained in Section 30 of the POCSO? [2024] 10 S.C.R. 189 Just Rights for Children Alliance & Anr. v. S. Harish & Ors. E. ANALYSIS i. Relevant Statutory Scheme and Provisions. a. Legislative History and Scheme of the POCSO. 39. Before adverting to the rival submissions canvassed on either side, it would be apposite to first look into the statutory scheme and refer to the relevant provisions of the POCSO. 40. As the long title, ‘Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012’ suggests, the POCSO was enacted by the Parliament to address the urgent need for a comprehensive law to protect children from sexual abuse and exploitation. 41. Sexual exploitation of children is a pervasive and deeply rooted issue that has plagued the societies worldwide and has been a matter of serious concern in India. Prior to the enactment of the POCSO, India lacked a specific legal framework dedicated to dealing with sexual offenses against children. While the provisions related to sexual offenses existed in the IPC, they were not adequately tailored to address the unique vulnerabilities and the needs of children. 42. The inadequacy of the existing laws to effectively deal and combat with the sexual abuse of children was starkly evident. The IPC, though equipped to handle sexual offences, did not explicitly recognize the various forms of sexual abuse that children might face. Under the IPC there was no distinction between an adult and a child victim for the purposes of the offences punishable under the Code nor did it account for the specific psychological and developmental needs of such child victims. Moreover, the procedural laws were not child- friendly, often resulting in secondary victimization during the legal process. The increasing incidence of child sexual abuse in India and the growing awareness of the long-term psychological impact on the victims underscored the need for a dedicated law. The POCSO was introduced to fill this gap and provide a robust legal mechanism to safeguard children from sexual crimes and protect them from offences of sexual assault, sexual harassment and pornography. 43. The Statement of Objects and Reasons for the enactment of the POCSO makes it abundantly clear that since the sexual offences against children were not adequately addressed by the existing laws and a large number of such offences were neither specifically 190 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports provided for nor were they adequately penalized, the POCSO has been enacted to protect the children from the offences of sexual assault, sexual harassment and pornography and to provide for establishment of Special Courts for trial of such offences and for matters connected therewith and incidental thereto.