The antenna and BTS are intrinsically linked. Antenna, tower, BTS, generation set, PFBs typically constitute essential components for providing seamless mobile telecommunication service to the consumers/ subscribers. 4. The mobile towers are bought and brought at the site either in completely knocked down condition (CKD) or semi-knocked down condition (SKD) by the service provider. The tower is installed at an appropriate site based on technological viability. It is on this mobile tower that the antenna which receives and transmits the electromagnetic signal is hoisted and fixed at an appropriate height as may be technically determined. The mobile tower, in turn, is fixed to the ground or on the top of a building to provide stability and make it wobble free as the antenna cannot function effectively if the same is not kept at a particular height and is not stable and prevented from shaking due to wind, rain or any other reason. 5. The MSPs or the infrastructure providers purchase these items from the manufacturers for installation at the appropriate locations. It is the excise duties paid on purchase of the mobile towers or parts thereof either in CKD or SKD condition and for erection of PFBs which are sought to be claimed by MSPs as CENVAT credit. This credit is thereafter utilised for payment as service tax for the output service provided by the MSPs to the consumers. This credit availed is the subject matter of dispute in these proceedings wherein the two High Courts have given contrary views. 6. In view of the conflicting decisions of the two High Courts, in to ascertain which of the two views is the correct one, it would be 1536 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports appropriate to examine the findings and reasons assigned by each of these High Courts for coming to different conclusions. 7. Before we proceed to examine the decisions of the two High Courts, it may be apposite to refer to the relevant provisions of the CENVAT Rules as the issues dealt with by the two High Courts and before us are to be examined in the light of the provisions of the CENVAT Rules. 7.1 Rule 3(1) of the CENVAT Credit Rules, 2004 enables a provider of taxable service to claim CENVAT credit paid on any “capital goods” or “input” received in the premises of the service provider. As to what are “capital goods” and “input” have been defined under Rule 2(a)(A) and the Rule 2(k) of the CENVAT Rules. Consequently, if the mobile towers and prefabricated buildings, which are the items in issue here, qualify as “capital goods” or “inputs” received in the premises of the mobile service provider, the mobile service provider will be entitled to claim CENVAT credit which can be further used for paying service tax for the output services rendered by the mobile service provider. 7.2 While Rule 3(1) is the enabling provision for taking CENVAT credit, Rule (4) provides that the CENVAT credit in respect of “inputs” may be taken immediately on receipt of inputs in the factory of the manufacturer or in the premises of the service provider.