The election in question does not form a part of the legislative proceedings of the House carried on at its meeting. Nor the vote cast at such an election is a vote given in the House on any issue arising before the House. The Speaker has no control over the election. The election is held by the Returning Officer appointed for the purpose. As mentioned earlier, under Section 33 of the Act the nomination paper has to be presented to the Returning Officer between the hours of eleven o’clock in the forenoon and three o’clock [2024] 3 S.C.R. 577 Sita Soren v. Union of India in the afternoon before the last day notified for making nominations under Section 30 of the Act. Then all further steps such as scrutiny of nominations and withdrawal of nominations take place before the Returning Officer. Rule 69 of the Conduct of Elections Rules, 1961 provides that at an election by Assembly members where a poll becomes necessary, the Returning Officer for such election shall, as soon as may be after the last date for the withdrawal of candidatures, send to each elector a notice informing him of the date, time and place fixed for polling. Part VI of the Conduct of Elections Rules, 1961 which contains Rule 69 and Part VII thereof deal with the procedure to be followed at an election by Assembly members. Rule 85 of the Conduct of Elections Rules, 1961 provides that as soon as may be after a candidate has been declared to be elected, the Returning Officer shall grant to such candidate a certificate of election in Form 24 and obtain from the candidate an acknowledgment of its receipt duly signed by him and immediately send the acknowledgment by registered post to the Secretary of the Council of States or as the case may be, the Secretary of the Legislative Council. All the steps taken in the course of the election thus fall outside the proceedings that take place at a meeting of the House.” (emphasis supplied) 179. In Madhukar Jetley (supra), the Court relied on Pashupati Nath Sukul (supra) and reiterated that an election to the Rajya Sabha does not form part of the legislative proceedings of the House and the vote cast at such an election does not constitute a vote given at a sitting of the House. Pertinently, both Pashupati Nath Sukul (supra) and Madhukar Jetley (supra) did not relate to any question bearing on the interpretation and scope of Article 194(2) or any claim for parliamentary privilege. 180. As stated above, there is no dispute with the proposition that elections to the Rajya Sabha are not part of the law-making functions and do not take place during a sitting of the House. However, the text of Article 194 consciously uses the term ‘Legislature’ instead of ‘House’ to include parliamentary processes which do not necessarily 578 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports take place on the floor of the House or involve ‘law-making’ in its pedantic sense.