Notably, it was not the State’s argument that every individual pensioner retiring on a particular date was a class unto themselves or that the date of retirement was the basis of classification. Rather, the argument was that those retiring before the designated date were a class, distinct from those retiring after that date: “9. Is this class of pensioners further divisible for the purpose of “entitlement” and “payment” of pension into those who retired by certain date and those who retired after that date? If date of retirement can be accepted as a valid criterion for classification, on retirement each individual government servant would form a class by himself because the date of retirement of each is correlated to his birth date and on attaining a certain age he had to retire. It is only after the recommendations of the Third Central Pay Commission were accepted by the Government of India that the retirement dates have been specified to be 12 in number being last day of each month in which the birth date of the individual government servant happens to fall. In other words, all government servants who retire correlated to birth date on attaining the age of superannuation in a given month shall not retire on that date but shall retire on the last day of the month. Now, if date of retirement is a valid criterion for classification, those who retire at the end of every month shall form a class by themselves. This is too microscopic a classification to be upheld for any valid purpose. Is it permissible or is it violative of Article 14?” (emphasis supplied) 90. All persons are unequal in one or the other aspect. In a given situation, even a single individual may be treated as a class by themselves.136 In that case, it is particularly important that laws do 136 Charanjit Chowdhury (supra) 833 [58]; Ram Krishna Dalmia (supra) [11] [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1385 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. not micro-classify. The question of whether the classification amounts to a micro-classification which is impermissible under Article 14 would depend on the facts of each case. However, the two crucial components of the standard of intelligible differentia prescribe the limits of sub-classification. The two components are (a) the purpose; and (b) the rational basis (or principle) for the differentiation. This Court has previously held that the purpose must be independent of the differentiation.137 The Court grants the State sufficient latitude in identifying the purpose, including the degrees of harm.138 The same degree of latitude is not accorded to the principle underlying the differentiation. It is not sufficient if the principle underlying the classification is relevant or shares a nexus to the purpose. The principle underlying the classification must be reasonable and rational.139 In Nakara (supra), this Court questioned the rationale of classifying the beneficiary class based on the date of retirement. In a concurring opinion in Navtej Singh Johar v. Union of India,140 Justice Indu Malhotra held that a principle of differentiation based on “core and immutable” characteristics is not rational.