The relevant para is extracted hereinbelow: “ 7. ….. clause (5) of Article 22 requires that the grounds of his detention should be made available to the detenue as soon as may be, and that the earliest opportunity of making a representation against the should also be afforded to him. In that the detenue should have that opportunity, it is not sufficient that he has been physically delivered the means of knowledge with which to make his representation. In that the detenue should be in a position effectively to make his representation against the , he should have knowledge of the grounds of detention, which are in the nature of the charge against him setting out the kinds of prejudicial acts which the authorities attribute to him. Communication, in this context, must, therefore, mean imparting to the detenue sufficient knowledge of all the grounds on which the of Detention is based. In this case the grounds are several, and are based on numerous speeches said to have been made by the appellant himself on different occasions and different dates. Naturally, therefore, any oral translation or explanation given by the police officer serving those on the detenue would not amount to communication, in 4 [1962] Supp. 2 SCR 918 : 1962 SCC OnLine SC 117 690 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports this context, must mean bringing home to the detenue effective knowledge of the facts and circumstances on which the of Detention is based. (emphasis supplied) 26. Further, this Court in the case of Lallubhai Jogibhai Patel v. Union of India and Ors.5, laid down that the grounds of detention must be communicated to the detenue in writing in a language which he understands and if the grounds are only verbally explained, the constitutional mandate of Article 22(5) is infringed. The relevant para is extracted hereunder: - “20. …. “Communicate” is a strong word. It means that sufficient knowledge of the basic facts constituting the “grounds” should be imparted effectively and fully to the detenu in writing in a language which he understands. The whole purpose of communicating the “ground” to the detenu is to enable him to make a purposeful and effective representation. If the “grounds” are only verbally explained to the detenu and nothing in writing is left with him, in a language which he understands, then that purpose is not served, and the constitutional mandate in Article 22(5) is infringed…..” (emphasis supplied) 27. From a holistic reading of various s pertaining to the law of preventive detention including the Constitution Bench decision of this Court in Harikisan (supra), wherein, the provisions of Article 22(5) of the Constitution of India have been interpreted, we find that it has been the consistent view of this Court that the grounds on which the liberty of a citizen is curtailed, must be communicated in writing so as to enable him to seek remedial measures against the deprivation of liberty. 28. Thus, there is no hesitation in the mind of this Court that the submission of learned ASG that in a case of preventive detention, the grounds of detention need not be provided to a detenue in writing is ex facie untenable in eyes of law.