157. Hence, Section 5(2) requires an oath for a specific mode of acquisition of citizenship. Similarly, under the Citizenship Rules, 2009, the oath is limited to certain modes, such as citizenship by registration under Section 5, citizenship by naturalization under Section 6, etc. Since Section 5(2) does not mandate the oath for every form of citizenship, the immigrants cannot be said to have violated Section 5 by not taking the oath. Likewise, it is difficult to hold that the immigrants have contravened any constitutional provision, as the Constitution does not explicitly mandate an oath for citizenship. 158. Moreover, the absence of such an oath does not absolve the immigrants from their obligation to respect the law and of India. Even when such oath is not taken before acquiring citizenship, every citizen has to compulsorily abide by the norms of the Constitution, statutory laws, and other rules and regulations. We need not further emphasise that once the immigrants have become Indian citizens by operation of Section 6A, they are regulated by the Constitution of India, the laws framed under it and the values enshrined within [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1073 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 them. Hence, the explicit lack of an oath of allegiance before the conferral of citizenship by Section 6A does not absolve the immigrants covered under this provision from following the laws of our country, just as any other citizen of India. 159. Hence, on account of the above-stated reasons, Section 6A cannot be run down on the premise that it does not mandate an oath of allegiance. v. Article 14 and classification under Section 6A 160. In addition to the numerous other grounds, the Petitioners have vehemently contended that Section 6A falls foul of Article 14 as it treats equals unequally. They argued that the selective application of Section 6A solely to the State of Assam exhibits hostility against it in comparison to other states. They contended that since the issue of illegal immigration from East Pakistan was also prevalent in States like West Bengal or, rather, was significantly greater in comparison, hence singling out Assam is unconstitutional. The Petitioners further argued that such recourse is unjustifiable and that geographical considerations could not be the determining factor for applying laws differently. In support of their contention that the classification under Article 14 has to be on a reasonable basis and based on lawful object, the Petitioners cited, inter alia, Nagpur Improvement Trust v. Vithal Rao113 and Subramanian Swamy v. CBI.114 161. In response, the Respondents have first contested the maintainability of the Petitioners’ plea by asserting that Article 14 can only be invoked by individuals who are alleged to have been unfairly excluded from benefits granted to others and not by those singled out and subjected to restrictions alone. It is the Respondents’ case that Article 14 ensures equality in benefits provided but not in liabilities imposed. Given that the Petitioners’ claim falls into the latter category, the Respondents contended that the same would not be maintainable.