He warned that we should not be content with mere political democracy but make our political democracy a social democracy as well. He emphasized that a social democracy would mean a way of life which recognizes liberty, equality, and fraternity as the principles of life. According to him, liberty, equality, and fraternity, not individually but a trinity of the three was necessary for converting our political democracy into social democracy. He pointed out the contradictions in the country about the social and economic structure. He warned that if we continue to deny equality in social and economic life for long, we will do so only by putting our political democracy in peril. He therefore appealed to the nation to remove this contradiction at the earliest possible moment. He warned that if we do not do so, those who suffer from inequality will blow up the structure of political democracy which the Constituent Assembly had so laboriously built up. 3. Two months thereafter, the Constitution of India came into force on 26th January 1950. On 26th November 2023, we have completed 74 years from the date on which the Constitution of India was enacted, adopted, and given to ourselves. On 26th January 2024, we have completed 74 years from the date on which the Constitution of India came into effect. We are now in the 75th year of our Republic. 4. For the last 75 years, there has been a march towards achieving social and economic equality. There have been efforts to give social and economic justice to the millions of citizens who on account of centuries and centuries of discrimination and inhuman treatment were denied the legitimate right to come into the mainstream of life. The trinity of Articles 14, 15, and 16 along with Articles 46, 335, 338, 341 and 342 have provided a tool to march towards social and economic equality; emphasis on affirmative action so as to give a special treatment to the underprivileged so that they can march forward; providing reservations in the matters of education and in the matter of public employment have been used so as to provide a special treatment to these backward classes. 1446 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 5. The present case raises a dispute amongst various classes in the group of Scheduled Castes who claim to be more underprivileged and therefore claim for a more differential treatment qua the more advantageous in that group. Per contra, the rival classes inside them claim that once the classes are brought into the Presidential List of Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes, they become a part of homogeneous group, and a further classification is not permissible under the Constitution. 6. This quest of the underprivileged for more preferential treatment as compared to the more advantageous in the larger group falls for consideration in the present reference. 7. The 5-Judge Bench of this Court in the case of E.V. Chinnaiah vs. State of A.P. and others1 has held that such a further classification on the ground of more backwardness among the backwards listed in the Presidential List is not permissible.