We, therefore, reject the contention in this behalf. 89. We further find that the Court, while interpreting a particular provision, will have to apply the principles of purposive construction. The Constitution Bench of this Court in the case of Vivek Narayan Sharma (supra) after surveying various s on the issue has held thus: “148. It is thus clear that it is a settled principle that the modern approach of interpretation is a pragmatic one, and not pedantic. An interpretation which advances the purpose of the Act and which ensures its smooth and harmonious working must be chosen and the other which leads to absurdity, or confusion, or friction, or contradiction and conflict between its various provisions, or undermines, or tends to defeat or destroy the basic scheme and purpose of the enactment must be eschewed. The primary and foremost task of the Court in interpreting a statute is to gather the intention of the legislature, actual or imputed. Having ascertained the intention, it is the duty of the Court to strive to so interpret the statute as to promote or advance the object and purpose of the enactment. For this purpose, where necessary, the Court may even depart from the rule that plain words should be interpreted according to their plain meaning. There need be no meek and mute submission to the plainness of the language. To avoid patent injustice, anomaly or absurdity or to avoid invalidation of a law, the court would be justified in departing from the so-called golden rule of construction so as to give effect to the object and purpose of the enactment. Ascertainment of legislative intent is the basic rule of statutory construction.” 964 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 90. It could thus be seen that it is a settled principle that the modern approach of interpretation is a pragmatic one, and not pedantic. An interpretation which advances the purpose of the Act and which ensures its smooth and harmonious working must be chosen and the other which leads to absurdity, or confusion, or friction, or contradiction and conflict between its various provisions, or undermines, or tends to defeat or destroy the basic scheme and purpose of the enactment must be eschewed. 91. If the contention that clause 5.15 of the Bidding Guidelines will come into play, which permits the Evaluation Committee to reject “all” price bids and not “any” one of them is accepted, it will lead to nothing else than resulting in absurdity. Suppose, if L-1 bidder quotes Rs.3 per unit and L-5 bidder quotes Rs.7 per unit, requirement to reject the bid of L-1 bidder, whose bid is found market aligned along with that of L-5 bidder, which is not market aligned, would lead to an anomalous situation. Could the consumer be deprived of the electricity to be procured from L-1 at a market aligned price only because some of the bidders have quoted much higher prices and are not market aligned. In our view, such an interpretation would result in defeating one of the main objects of the enactment, i.e., protection of the consumer.