Section 8-A of the Act begins with a non-obstante clause and it states that notwithstanding anything contained in any , decree or of any court, tribunal or other authority or any law for the time being in force, the Custodian may, within such time as may be specified by the Central Government in this behalf, dispose of whether by sale or otherwise, as the case may be, with prior approval of the Central Government, by general or special , enemy properties vested in him immediately before the date of commencement of the Amendment Act, 2017 in accordance with the provisions of this Act, as amended by the Amendment Act, 2017. The sale proceeds have to be deposited into the Consolidated Fund of India and the details thereof have to be intimated to the Central Government. The directions issued by the Central Government, by way of general or special , vis-à-vis disposal of enemy property is binding upon the Custodian and the buyer of the enemy properties and the other persons connected to such sale or disposal. Further, instead of the Custodian disposing of enemy property, any Ministry or Department of the Central Government may do so as authorised and the provision of Section 8A applies to such authority or Ministry or Department. The Central Government can also deal with or utilise enemy property in such manner as it may deem fit. The scheme of Section 8A of the Act is only to regulate the disposal of the enemy property by the Custodian bearing in mind the guidelines and/or directions issued by the Central 908 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Government and to deposit the sale proceeds into the Consolidated Fund of India. The Custodian would nevertheless be acting as a trustee of the enemy property but under the directions of the Central Government as the Custodian is appointed under the Central Government and he, with the prior approval of the Central Government may dispose of the enemy property for valid reasons. It could be for the reasons that there is no succession to the enemy property or the said property is in a dilapidated condition or, if for any reason, there is litigation or legal or other complications arising which would make it difficult for the Custodian as the trustee of such property to manage the same. In such circumstance, there could be alienation of the said property. On such alienation, the sale proceeds would have to be deposited in the Consolidated Fund of India, as the Custodian, being an officer appointed under the provisions of the Act by the Central Government, would be discharging his duties under the Act. But the power of sale of an enemy property as envisaged under Section 8A of the Act, in our view, would also not imply that the Custodian would be acting as the owner of the property but only as a Custodian of such property. This view is further supported by Section 9 of the Act, which states that all enemy property vested in the Custodian under the Act shall be exempt from attachment, seizure or sale in execution of a decree of a civil court or s of any other authority.