The Appellant is admittedly one of those accused. She has further deposed that sabhee ne (all of them) assaulted Tillu with lathi, rods and pipes. She further stated that when she tried to intervene, Ahmad abused her and threatened to kill her. She then went and stood at some distance and witnessed that those aaropigan, i.e., all the accused, had given fatal assaults to Tillu and Tularam. Most importantly, she further testified that she, along with Lalaram, then went to the Police Station Kamla Nagar, whereafter the Police Officials immediately sent Lalaram and Tularam for treatment at Hamidia Hospital. Tillu, however, could not reach the hospital as he succumbed to the injuries on the way. Additionally, in paragraph 4 of her deposition, Usha Bai (P.W.10) unmistakably states that she reported the matter to Police Station Kamla Nagar through Ex.P.7, 236 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports which is thumb marked by her. This part of her deposition has not been questioned by the Appellant while cross-examining Usha Bai (P.W.10). We have also gone through the Appellant’s own statement recorded under Section 313 CrPC. Aside from a vague denial and claims of false implication, there is no suggestion that he was not present at the scene; that he did not participate in the incident, or that he was falsely implicated for any reason. The Appellant, thus, has failed to demonstrate any prejudice resulting from the alleged non- reading of the contents of the FIR to the Informant. The contention raised in this regard is entirely misconceived. 43. Be that as it may, this Court in State v. N.S. Gnaneswaran 2 has ruled that the stipulations outlined in Section 154 CrPC concerning the reading over of the information after it is written down, the signing of the said information by the informant, and the entry of its substance in the prescribed manner are not obligatory. These requirements are procedural in nature, and the omission of any of them does not impact the legal consequences resulting from the information provided under the section. 44. It is equally well-settled that when the testimonies of eyewitnesses are consistent, unimpeachable, and duly corroborated by medical evidence or the recovery of incriminating material like the weapon used, the deficiencies, if any, in the recording of FIR alone do not constitute a valid ground to overturn the conviction or undermine the prosecution case. A.3 Presence of Appellant on the Place of Occurrence 45. Learned Senior Counsel for the Appellant argued that it is a case of false implication as the presence of the Appellant at the spot of occurrence has not been established beyond doubt. He relied upon the statement of Usha Bai (P.W.10), who, in the opening statement of her examination-in-chief, named Ahmad, Asgar, Ravi and Kanija Bi as accused and claimed that she did not know anyone else. It was highlighted that Usha Bai (P.W.10) not only failed to name the Appellant in her entire statement but also admitted during the cross- examination that she never provided the names of the assailants, as mentioned by the Police in the FIR (Ex.P.7).