Hyder Consulting (UK) Ltd. (supra). In the said decision, this Court held that an arbitrator has the power to grant post- award interest under Section 31(7) of the 1996 Act on the sum comprising of the principal plus interest on the principal which has accrued from the date of cause of action to the date of passing of the award. Leave was granted whereafter the civil appeal of the respondent was allowed by this Court. Following the law laid down in M/s. Hyder Consulting (UK) Ltd. (supra), the s of Single Bench and Division Bench were set aside. Liberty was granted to the respondent to seek execution as per the law in M/s. Hyder Consulting (UK) Ltd. (supra). 31.2. In the above context, it is contended on behalf of the respondent that the clarification issued by the learned Arbitrator stood affirmed by this Court. Therefore, post the decision of this 1594 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports Court, it is not open to the appellant to again question the clarification on the ground that learned Arbitrator had no jurisdiction to issue such clarification. 31.3. Notwithstanding the same, appellant had filed M.A. No. 927/2018 before this Court seeking clarification of the dated 12.03.2015 passed in the disposed of civil appeal which was decided in favour of the respondent. Same grounds qua lack of jurisdiction on the part of the learned Arbitrator were raised in the miscellaneous application as are being raised now. The miscellaneous application was extensively argued before this Court. It was orally observed by this Court during the hearing that the clarification was in consonance with the law laid down by the three-Judge Bench of this Court in M/s. Hyder Consulting (UK) Ltd. (supra) and was on the verge of dismissing the miscellaneous application. It was at that stage that learned counsel for the appellant sought leave of this Court to withdraw the miscellaneous application and accordingly, the same was disposed of as withdrawn. However, no liberty was granted to the appellant to reagitate the said issue again in any other proceeding. That being the position, appellant is estopped from raking up the said issue again before this Court. 31.4. It is contended that learned Arbitrator was well within his powers under Section 33 of the 1996 Act to issue the clarification which has now attained finality. 31.5. In that view of the matter, the civil appeal being devoid of any merit should be dismissed. Submissions 32. Ms. Madhavi Divan, learned senior counsel for the appellant, at the outset, submitted that the clarification of the learned Arbitrator dated 15.03.2005 is a nullity in the eyes of law. Referring to the final award dated 16.12.1997, learned senior counsel submits that learned Arbitrator had awarded simple interest @ 18% per annum from the date of the cause of action i.e. 01.04.1990 till the date of actual payment which includes the post-award period as well. She submits that since the award provided for post-award interest, provisions of Section 31(7)(b) of the 1996 Act would not come into play.