Digital Supreme Court Reports in view of Section 18-G of the Industries (Development and Regulation) Act, 1951. 36. In our view, if the decision in the Synthetics and Chemicals case (supra) with regard to the interpretation of Section 18-G of the 1951 Act is allowed to stand, it would render the provisions of Entry 33 (a) of List III nugatory or otiose. 37. We are, therefore, also of the view that this aspect of the matter requires reconsideration by a larger Bench of this Court, particularly, when the views expressed by 7 Judge Bench on the aforesaid question have been distinguished in several subsequent decisions of this Court, including the two decisions rendered by Constitution Benches of five Judges.” (emphasis supplied) 24. This Court formulated six questions for adjudication by a larger Bench. They are reproduced below: a. Does Section 2 of the IDRA have any impact on the field covered by Section 18G of the same or Entry 33 of List III of the Seventh Schedule? b. Does Section 18G of the aforesaid Act fall under Entry 52 of List I of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution, or is it covered by Entry 33 of List III thereof? c. In the absence of any notified by the Central government under Section 18G of the above Act, is the power of the State to legislate in respect of matters enumerated in Entry 33 of List III ousted? d. Does the mere enactment of Section 18G of the IDRA, give rise to a presumption that it was the intention of the Central government to cover the entire field in respect of Entry 33 of List III so as to oust the States’ competence to legislate in respect of matters relating thereto? e. Does the mere presence of Section 18G of the IDRA, oust the State’s power to legislate in regard to matters falling under Entry 33(a) of List III? [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1973 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons f. Does the interpretation given in Synthetics (supra), in respect of Section 18G of the IDRA correctly state the law regarding the States’ power to regulate industrial alcohol as a product of the Scheduled industry under Entry 33 of List III in view of clause (a) thereof? 25. The batch was placed before a Constitution Bench pursuant to the above . By an dated 8 December 2010, the Constitution Bench observed that the decision in Synthetics (7J) (supra) requires to be considered by a Bench of nine Judges and directed the matter be placed before a larger Bench: “Having meticulously examined the of the Constitution Bench of seven learned Judges in the case of Synthetics and Chemical Limited & Ors. vs. State of Uttar Pradesh & Ors., reported in 1990 (1) SCC 109, we are of the view that the matter requires consideration by a Bench of nine Judges.” 26. Though the three-Judge Bench by an 25 October 2007 only referred the issue of the interplay between Section 18-G of the IDRA and Entry 33 of List III to the Constitution Bench, the of the Constitution Bench categorically noted that the correctness of the decision in Synthetics (7J) ought to be reconsidered by a nine Judge Bench.