Shri Kherdekar, the learned counsel for the petitioner, contended that having regard to the object of the Rules, its background, the language used in Clause B(5) and the ratio of various Supreme Court decisions on the validity of various reservations on region/residence basis, the requirement of passing Indian School Certificate Examination “from an institution located in Maharashtra State” is not intended to be applied to the candidates 1 1986 SCC OnLine Bom 262 2 2000 SCC Online Bom 359 710 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports covered by Rule B(3). It seems to us that the contention is well-founded. Course and the examination of the Indian School Certificate Examination is common all over India. Serviceman has no control on his posting which can be anywhere. Rule of denial of admission to a meritorious son/ daughter of a serviceman who is domicile of Maharashtra only because of a fortuitous circumstance of his being not posted at the time of his ward studying in 12th Standard within the State of Maharashtra cannot have any nexus to the object of the Rule. Mere chance cannot be the valid disqualifying factor. Such a Rule will not only be arbitrary and unreasonable but will permit discrimination between two classes of servicemen of Maharashtra domicile lactually posted at material time (i) in Maharashtra and (ii) outside Maharashtra. This classification will be clearly invidious having no nexus whatsoever to the object sought to be achieved. Supreme Court has repeatedly held against denial of admissions only on the basis of residence and/or region. Canons of interpretation mandates that interpretation which leads to unconstitutionality has to be avoided, and harmonious construction to be preferred, if possible. Thus the Rule will have to be interpreted keeping the above principles in view. The Rule is not clearly worded and does present some difficulty in construing it. It is not as if that Clause C applies universally and without exception to all admissions under the Rule. Take for example cases covered by Rule B(4)(iii) — reservation for son or daughter of Non-resident Indians of Maharashtra origin. Even 20 per cent seats out of category B(3) are reserved for Defence Personnel transferred to the Maharashtra Region. It is in this light and background that Rule B(5) has to be read. The terminology “after excluding validly reserved seats” used in Rule B(5) is significant. It means that all parts of Clause C do not universally apply to validly reserved seats under Clause B. This is not to suggest that no part of Clause C applies to any varieties of reservations mentioned in Clause B. All will depend upon a specie of reservation and its intendment. Construed in that light it seems to us that the last part of Rule C(3)(ii) reading as “from an [2024] 3 S.C.R. 711 Vansh S/o Prakash Dolas v. The Ministry of Education & The Ministry of Health & Family Welfare & Ors. institution located in Maharashtra State” is not intended to be applied to candidate covered by Clause B(3).” 12.