51 3rd meeting of the National Commission for Scheduled Castes held on 13.12.2010 under the Chairmanship of Dr PL Punia. 1362 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports C. Issues 43. The Constitution Bench has to adjudicate upon whether the sub- classification of Scheduled Castes for the purpose of providing affirmative action, including reservation is valid. In this context, the following issues arise for consideration: a. Whether sub-classification of a reserved class is permissible under Articles 14, 15 and 16; b. Whether the Scheduled Castes constitute a homogenous or a heterogenous grouping; c. Whether Article 341 creates a homogenous class through the operation of the deeming fiction; and d. Whether there any limits on the scope of sub-classification. D. Analysis i. The jurisprudence on reservation 44. The jurisprudence surrounding reservations has undergone turbulations, both inside and outside the courts. Two crucial issues have dominated the jurisprudential debate – identifying the model of equality espoused by the Constitution and the interplay of equality with ‘efficiency’ or ‘merit’. It is important that we trace the core principles governing reservations in India before we proceed to answer the issue of whether sub-classification of the Scheduled Castes is violative of Articles 14,15 and 16. This would enable us to analyze whether sub-classification furthers the constitutional promise of equality. a. Reservation as an exposition of substantive equality 45. The purpose of the equal opportunity principle in Article 16(1) and the reservation provision in Article 16(4) has emerged as a focal point of the jurisprudence on reservations in this Court. A discussion of the journey of the competing models of equality that the Court has espoused and their evolution over the course of the years is necessary to understand the constitutional vision on equality. I. The competing visions of equality 46. Articles 14, 15 and 16 of the Constitution encompass an equality code in pursuance of the preambular values of equality of status and opportunity and social justice. Article 14 lays down general principles [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1363 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. governing equality by postulating that there must be “equality before the law” and “equal protection of law”. In its formative years, this Court interpreted Article 14 through the lens of the classification doctrine52 which is premised on the recognition that formal equality in law, by which every person irrespective of their circumstances is treated alike, does not translate to factual equality. The underlying foundation of this doctrine is that two persons who are not similarly situated cannot be treated alike.53 47. Articles 15(1) and 16(1) were viewed as an elucidation of the equality principle housed in Article 14.54 However, the Courts were reticent in applying the doctrine of reasonable classification and its underlying assumption that ‘not all persons (and not all situations) are alike’ to the realm of reservation. The reason for the hesitation was that the means adopted (that is, reservation) were understood to not have relevance to securing equality of opportunity which was defined in terms of formal equality and efficiency.55 In the State of Madras (now Tamil Nadu), seats in Medical and Engineering colleges were apportioned among different groups in the proportion set forth in a Government called the “Communal GO”.