However, such exercise could have been undertaken by inviting evidence in such regard. The appellate authority purported to enhance the quantum from Rs 5 lakh to Rs 55 lakh without indicating any or cogent grounds for such enhancement. Though an element of guesstimation is permitted while assessing damages, when an initial authority has indicated a ballpark figure, any tinkering with such figure at the appellate stage would require material in support thereof, which is completely lacking in the and impugned dated July 30, 2021 passed by the appellate authority in the present case. xxx xxx xxx 20. Before parting, there is another aspect that has to be referred to for the completeness of the discussion. The purpose of the Act of 2002 is to ensure speedy recovery of the debt due to secured creditors covered by such statute. Towards such end, the provisions of the said Act and the Rules made thereunder give primacy to the secured creditor in initially assessing the quantum of debt 32 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports due and in proceeding against the securities furnished for realising such debt due. However, no secured creditor, not even by embracing the provisions of the said Act of 2002, can unjustly enrich itself or obtain any more by way of resorting to any of the measures contemplated under Section 13(4) of the Act or otherwise than the debt that is due to it and the costs that may have been incurred in course of trying to recover the debt due. In a sense, if the forfeiture provision in Rule 9(5) of the said Rules is ready to imply what the secured creditor in this case seeks to, it may result in a secured creditor unjustly enriching itself, which is not permissible.” (Emphasis supplied) 20. The plain reading of the aforesaid findings recorded by the High Court lays down three propositions of law as follows: (1) Rule 9(5) of the SARFAESI Rules is merely an enabling provision that permits forfeiture in principle. It cannot override the underlying ethos of Section 73 of the 1872 Act. It should yield to the principle recognised in Section 73 of the 1872 Act or must be read down accordingly. (2) By virtue of the delegated legislation as in the SARFAESI Rules, the fundamental principle envisaged in the 1872 Act should not be permitted to be diluted or altogether disregarded. (3) Rule 9(5) of the SARFAESI Rules if not read along with the principle recognised in Section 73 of the 1872 Act, the same may result in a secured creditor unjustly enriching itself which is not permissible. 21. In view of the aforesaid, the Bank being aggrieved with the impugned passed by the High Court is here before this Court with the present appeals. C. SUBMISSIONS OF THE APPELLANT 22. Mr. Dhruv Mehta, the learned Senior Counsel appearing for the appellants submitted that the issue framed by the High Court in its Impugned is wholly alien to the sale conducted under the SARFAESI Rules, more particularly Rule 9.