Section 8612, inter alia, provides that,— (a) the candidates is void, claims a further declaration, that he himself or any other candidate has been duly elected, all the contesting candidates other than the petitioner, and where no such for the declaration is claimed, all the returned candidates; and (b) any other candidate against whom allegations of any corrupt practice are made in the petition. 10 Section 83. Contents of petition.— (1) An election petition— (a) shall contain a concise statement of the material facts on which the petitioner relies; (b) shall set forth full particulars of any practice that the petitioner alleges, including as full statement as possible of the names of the parties alleged to have committed such corrupt practice and the date and place of the commission of each such corrupt practice; and (c) shall be signed by the petitioner and verified in the manner laid down in the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908) for the verification of pleadings: [Provided that where the petitioner alleges any corrupt practice, the petition shall also be accompanied by an affidavit in the prescribed form in support of the allegation of such corrupt practice and the particulars thereof.] (2) Any schedule or annexure to the petition shall also be signed by the petitioner and verified in the same manner as the petition. 11 Section 84. Relief that may be claimed by the petitioner.— A petitioner may, in addition to claiming a declaration that the election of all or any of the returned candidates is void, claim a further declaration that he himself or any other candidate has been duly elected. 12 Section 86. Trial of election petitions.— (1) The High Court shall dismiss an election petition which does not comply with the provisions of section 81 or section 82 or section 117. Explanation. – An of the High Court dismissing an election petition under this sub-section shall be deemed to be an made under clause (a) of section 98. (2) As soon as may be after the election petition has been presented to the High Court, it shall be referred to the judge or one of the judges who has or have been assigned by the Chief Justice for the trial of election petitions under sub-section (2) of section 80 A. (3) Where more election petitions than one are presented to the High Court in respect of the same election, all of them shall be referred for trial to the same judge, who may, in his discretion, try them separately or in one or more groups. (4) Any candidate not already a respondent shall, upon application made by him to the High Court within 14 days from the date of commencement of the trial and subject to any as to security for costs, which may be made by the High Court, being entitled to be joined as a respondent. Explanation.— For the purposes of this sub-section and of section 97, the trial of a petition shall be deemed to commence on the date fixed for the respondent to appear before the High Court and answer the claim or claims made in the petition.