The Writ Petition will have to be remanded to the High Court to decide the same in accordance with the law. 22. The construction of the compound wall is complete; therefore, while remanding the Writ Petition to the High Court, we must clarify that the construction will be subject to the final decision in the Writ Petition. After remand, the High Court will have to call upon the 1st and 2nd respondents to implead necessary parties to the petition. If required, the Court must decide who the necessary parties to the petition are. It will always be open for the appellants to apply for impleadment. While determining who the necessary and proper parties are, the appellants’ application will have to be considered by the High Court. It follows that on the failure of the 1st and 2nd respondents herein to implead the necessary parties, the High Court will be well within its power to dismiss the Writ Petition and pass an of restoration of status quo ante by directing demolition of the compound wall. 172 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 23. Hence, we pass the following : a) We set aside the dated 16th March 2022 in Writ Petition No. 2584 of 2022 and the dated 20th July 2023 in the Review Petition and restore Writ Petition No. 2584 of 2022 to the file of the High Court; b) We direct the Registrar (Judicial) of the Bombay High Court to list the restored Writ Petition before the roster Bench on the first day of re-opening of the Court after the ensuing summer vacation. The parties to the appeal shall appear before the Court on that day as they will not be entitled to any further notice of the Writ Petition; c) It will be open for the appellants to apply for impleadment in the Writ Petition on all available grounds; d) After the remand, the High Court will decide whether all the necessary parties likely to be affected by the construction of the compound wall in terms of the “Minutes of ” were impleaded as party respondents. While doing so, the case of the petitioners shall also be considered; e) If the Court concludes that the 1st and 2nd respondents had not impleaded necessary parties to the Writ Petition and within a reasonable time if the 1st and 2nd respondents fail to implead the necessary parties, the High Court will be free to follow the logical course of dismissing the Writ Petition. While doing so, the High Court will have to the restoration of the status quo ante by directing the demolition of the compound wall; and f) After the 1st and 2nd respondents implead all the necessary parties to the Writ Petition, the same shall be decided finally in accordance with law. We clarify that construction of the compound wall made by the 1st and 2nd respondents shall be subject to the final outcome of the restored petition. Therefore, if the construction is found to be illegal or if it is found that it adversely affects the rights of the third parties, the High Court may pass an of demolition of the compound wall or a part thereof.