What is under scrutiny in judicial review of an action is the decision-making process and whether there is any element of arbitrariness or mala fide. 71. Thus, the question to be answered in such situations is whether the decision was based on valid considerations. This is undertaken to ensure that the reasons assigned were the true motivations behind the action and it involves checking for the presence of any ulterior 588 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports motives or irrelevant considerations that might have influenced the decision. The approach of the court must be to respect the expertise and discretion of administrative authorities while still protecting against arbitrary and capricious actions. Thus, now the only question that remains to be considered is whether the action of the respondent to cancel the tender could be termed as arbitrary? ii. Whether the action of cancelling the tender is arbitrary or unfair and in consequence of violation of Article 14 of the Constitution? 72. The principal contention of the appellant is that the notice of cancellation dated 07.02.2023 that was issued by the respondent is manifestly arbitrary, unreasonable and influenced by mala fide and extraneous considerations. 73. Before we proceed to determine whether the cancellation of tender could be termed as arbitrary, it is necessary to understand the stance of the respondent in the present litigation, as discernible from their pleadings, which has left us quite perplexed. The argument of the respondent is two-fold: - (i) First, that the tender had to be cancelled as there was a technical fault. The tender was found to be ‘non-specific’ & ‘not well defined’ as a result it created ambiguity resulting in financial losses to the respondent. (ii) Secondly, the cancellation was also on account of a change in policy whereby, the operation & maintenance of the concerned underpasses had been handed over to another authority. 74. The primary thrust of the respondent’s contention is that the decision to cancel the tender was taken in view of the technical faults in the same, more particularly the ambiguity as to whether the advertisement boards could be put up beyond the area of the concerned underpasses. 75. The learned Single Judge of the High Court in its dated 24.04.2023 observed that there was an ambiguity in the Special Terms & Conditions of the Memorandum of Tender more particularly clauses 10 and 14 respectively which gave rise to a conflicting interpretation as to the placement of the signboards. This in the opinion of the High Court was a technical fault, which the respondent sought to [2024] 7 S.C.R. 589 Subodh Kumar Singh Rathour v. The Chief Executive Officer & Ors. rectify by way of cancelling the tender. The relevant observations read as under: - “18. [...] In fact, the letter of cancellation provides further reasons, namely, that the tender has been found to be non-specific and having technical faults. This would also be borne out from clauses 10 and 14 of the Special Terms and Conditions of the tender document which give rise to conflicting interpretations on the placement of the signboards.