There is no evidence of any substantive enquiry, inquiry, or investigation made against him prior to coming into operation of the Section 17A of the 1988 Act. Hence, the case at hand is distinguishable from the ratio laid down in the of this Court of in the case of Tejmal Choudhary (supra). 21. The Amendment Act by which Section 17A of the 1988 Act was brought into the said statute also deleted the provisions of sub-clauses (c) and (d) of Section 13 (1) thereof. At the time the memorandum of adding the appellant as accused was issued, the said Amendment Act had become operational, but at the time of alleged commission of offence, aforesaid two sub-clauses were part of the statute book. Thus, per se, the appellant could be held liable for commission of offences stipulated in the said provisions, though their subsequent deletion might have some impact on the ultimate outcome of the case. We are not concerned with that aspect of the controversy at this stage. It has been asserted by Mr. Rohtagi, however, that since at the time of commission of offence, the protective shield of Section 17A was not in force, the appellant could not claim the benefits thereof. I, however, do not accept this argument. It has been already observed by me that the point of time Section 17A of 1988 Act would become applicable is the starting point of enquiry, inquiry, [2024] 1 S.C.R. 569 Nara Chandrababu Naidu v. The State of Andhra Pradesh & Anr. or investigation and not the time of commission of the alleged offence. In the event any of the three acts on the part of the prosecution is triggered off post 26.07.2018, the mandate of Section 17A would be applicable. The wording of Section 17A restricts the power of a police officer to conduct any of the three acts into any offence by a public servant “under this act”. Thus, if the process of enquiry commences at a time attracting specific provisions of the 1988 Act which stand deleted by the Amendment Act of 2018, the restrictive protection in form of Section 17A ought to be granted. The phrase “under this act”, on such construction ought to include offences which were in the statue book at the time the subject-offences are alleged to have been committed. Mr. Rohatgi, however, wants me to construe this expression, i.e. “under this Act” to mean the 1988 Act, as it existed on and from the date the provisions of Section 17A was introduced. As the said section did not exist at the time of alleged commission of the offences, his submission is that the said provision could not apply in the case of the appellant. The said section, however, as I have already narrated, had become operational when the enquiry started. Thus, proceeding on the basis that the said provision is prospective in its operation, the material point of time for determining its prospectivity would be the starting point of enquiry or inquiry and investigation.