Let us appreciate that it will serve no public purpose. 48. The High Court has thus erroneously held that the objections were disposed of cryptically merely because they were grouped. Had the respondents substantiated that the consolidation was done arbitrarily, impairing the fairness in adjudication, then only it could be said that each objection ought to have been dealt with separately. 49. We, however, find from the record that some of the objections have ostensibly been left out from the aforementioned five groups. For instance, the objection filed by the respondent in Civil Appeal No. 23 Women’s Education Trust v. State of Haryana, (2013) 8 SCC 99, para 33. 24 Aflatoon v. Lt. Governor of Delhi (1975) 4 SCC 285, para 13. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1027 New Okhla Industrial Development Authority v. Darshan Lal Bohra & Ors. 8053 of 2019 was summarised as Objection No. 22, but have not been included in any of the groups per se while disposing it off. Similar is the case with the objections in Civil Appeals Nos. 8054 and 8061 of 2019, which were mentioned as Objection No. 23 and 8, respectively, in the Collector’s report but were not included in any of the groups. 50. This would nevertheless lead to no legal implications. We say so for the reason that the Collector first summarized each of these objections separately, and noted that the objectors have sought exemption of their land on the ground of it being an ‘abadi’ area. Thereafter, the Collector went on to reject this plea, albeit while disposing of other objections. He specifically observed that the lands claimed to be ‘abadi’ merely have temporary and illegal constructions, and no person is residing there. Finally, the Collector noted that all the objections are disposed of “in aforementioned terms”. The objections that were left out from the groups are also squarely covered by the above-cited reasoning. 51. In addition to what has been found on facts, it seems to us that the absence of a formal rejection in the case of a few objections would not per se vitiate the acquisition proceedings for two reasons. Firstly, the non-consideration of such objections is inconsequential, because even if it was an ‘abadi’ land, there is nothing in law that bars the State Government from acquiring the same. Instead, the exemption of such lands from the acquisition is a matter of State Policy and depends on the government’s discretion.25 If the State Government opines that the land is needed for a larger public purpose and development projects, such land can be acquired, notwithstanding the fact that it was a residential property. 52. Secondly, it is an admitted position that the acquisition proceedings in the instant case have nearly attained finality. Most landowners (i.e., 185 out of 210) have accepted compensation and, as discussed previously in Section D.1.3. (supra), are deemed to have acquiesced to the acquisition process. Subsequently, significant investment has been made into the development projects conceptualised there. Accepting the respondents’ claim would require turning back the clock, which would adversely impact the larger public interest.