Section 306 of the 1925 Act reads as under: “Section 306 – Demands and rights of action of or against deceased survive to and against executor or administrator.— All demands whatsoever and all rights to prosecute or defend any action or special proceeding existing in favor of or against a person at the time of his decease, survive to and against his executors or administrators; except causes of action for defamation, assault, as defined in the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (45 of 1860) or other personal injuries not causing the death of the party; and except also cases where, after the death of the party, the relief sought could not be enjoyed or granting it would be nugatory.” 19. We may also advert to Sections 37 and 40 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872, which read as under:- “37. Obligation of parties to contracts.—The parties to a contract must either perform, or offer to perform, their respective promises, unless such performance is dispensed with or excused under the provisions of this Act, or of any other law. Promises bind the representatives of the promisors in case of the death of such promisors before performance, unless a contrary intention appears from the contract. x x x 40.Person by whom promise is to be performed.—If it appears from the nature of the case that it was the intention of the parties to any contract that any promise contained 140 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports in it should be performed by the promisor himself, such promise must be performed by the promisor. In other cases, the promisor or his representatives may employ a competent person to perform it.” 20. Section 37 of the aforesaid Act states that a promise made by a promisor is binding on his representatives in case of his/her death, unless a contrary intention appears from the contract. Legal representatives are liable for the debts of their predecessor, but their liability is limited to the extent of the estate of the deceased inherited by them. Therefore, the representatives of a promisor are bound to perform the promisor’s contract to the extent of the assets of the deceased falling in their hands. But they are not personally liable under the contracts of the deceased and are also not liable for personal contracts of the deceased. Therefore, when personal considerations are the basis of a contract they come to an end on the death of either party, unless there is a stipulation express or implied to the contrary. This is especially so when the contracts involve exercise of special skills such as expressed in Section 40 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872. 21. Thus, a contract can be performed vicariously by the legal representatives of the promisor depending upon the subject matter of the contract and the nature of performance that was stipulated thereto. But a contract involving exercise of individual’s skills or expertise of the promisor or which depends upon his/her personal qualification or competency, the promisor has to perform the contract by himself and not by his/her representatives.