SBI must disclose details of each Electoral Bond encashed by political parties which shall Include the date of encashment and the denomination of the Electoral Bond; d. SBI shall submit the above information to the ECI within three weeks from the date of this , that is, by 6 March 2024; e. The ECI shall publish the information shared by the SBI on Its official website within one week of the receipt of the Information, that is, by 13 March 2024; and f. Electoral Bonds which are within the validity period of fifteen days but that which have not been encashed by the political party yet shall be returned by the political party or the purchaser depending on who is in possession of the bond to the issuing bank. The Issuing bank, upon the return of the valid bond, shall refund the amount to the purchaser’s account.” 5. The SBI filed a Miscellaneous Application before this Court two days before the expiry of the deadline seeking an extension of time until 30 June 2024 for complying with the directions. The petitioners before this Court – Association for Democratic Reforms4 and the Communist Party of India (Marxist) – instituted a petition invoking the contempt jurisdiction of this Court against SBI for willful disobedience of the of this Court. 6. In support of the application by the SBI, we have heard Mr Harish N Salve, senior counsel. Mr Salve submitted that the information which was received by the SBI was maintained in two separate silos and was maintained with the utmost secrecy to fulfill the core purpose of the Electoral Bond Scheme. The learned Senior counsel submitted 4 “ADR” [2024] 3 S.C.R. 643 State Bank of India v. Association for Democratic Reforms and Others that there is no difficulty in the disclosure of information available in two separate silos which are referred to in (b) and (c) of the operative directions. The counsel submitted that this exercise can be completed within three weeks. However, it is submitted that the difficulty of SBI arose since it construed the direction of this Court as requiring it to carry out a matching exercise of the donor and bond details with the corresponding details pertaining to encashment by political parties. 7. While evaluating the submission made on behalf of the SBI, a reference to some of the key aspects of the Scheme would be in at this stage. Clause 7(4) of the Electoral Bond Scheme stipulates that the information furnished by the buyer of an Electoral Bond shall be treated as confidential by the authorized bank and shall be disclosed only when called upon to do so by a competent court or upon the registration of an offence by a law enforcement agency. Thus, in terms of the provisions of the Electoral Bond Scheme itself, SBI is mandated to disclose information when demanded by a court. What has to be analyzed is whether SBI is justified in seeking an extension of time. 8. The SBI seeks an extension of time on the ground that the process of “decoding the Electoral Bonds and matching the donor to the donations” is a complex and time-consuming exercise.