The High Court also directed that the alleged lessee can be dispossessed only in accordance with the law. However, the High Court did not interfere with the findings recorded by the Trial Court on merits. 5. Based on the application made by the alleged lessee on 26th November 2001, the Special Nazul Officer of the authority converted the plot into freehold subject to the alleged lessee depositing a total amount of Rs.67,022.21. On the basis of the said , on 29th January 2002, a deed of freehold was executed on behalf of the Governor of the State in respect of the said plot in favour of the alleged lessee. After becoming aware of the deed and conversion of the plot during the pendency of the Writ Petition, the school applied for amendment of the Writ Petition seeking to incorporate the additional prayers for challenging the dated 20th June 1996 of cancellation of the highest bid of the school, for challenging the of conversion in favour of the alleged lessee and consequently, the deed dated 29th January 2002. There is some controversy about whether the amendment was allowed. By the impugned , the High Court held that the of conversion from leasehold to freehold was illegal as even the market value of the plot was not ed to be paid by the alleged lessee. Therefore, the High Court held that the deed executed in favour of the alleged lessee was a nullity. However, the High Court kept open the question of whether the plot could be subjected to a fresh auction. Both the school and the alleged lessee have filed these two appeals. SUBMISSIONS 6. Shri Vinay Navare, the learned senior counsel appearing for the school, has taken us through the relevant documents. He also pointed out that the plot is a garden plot, which is adjacent to the land held by the school. He pointed out that the High Court has not accepted that the bid offered by the school could have been cancelled on the ground that the school purchased the tender document on the last date. The learned counsel submitted that the dated 6th December 2000 passed by the Allahabad High Court in the appeal filed by the alleged lessee against dismissal of his suit is a collusive . He submitted that the Trial Court decided all issues framed [2024] 8 S.C.R. 27 City Montessori School v. State of U.P. & Ors. against the alleged lessee except the issue of his possession. The learned counsel urged that the lease claimed by the alleged lessee is not in subsistence. He pointed out that the alleged lessee is a defaulter who has not paid rent for a long time. He submitted that, in any case, the original lessee could not have transferred the leasehold rights regarding the plot to the alleged lessee. The learned senior counsel, therefore, submitted that, firstly, the of cancellation of the highest bid offered by the school was bad in law. Secondly, during the pendency of the Writ Petition, the authority had no right to consider the prayer made by the alleged lessee for conversion.