Digital Supreme Court Reports in Entry 49 List II is land as a unit – Subject of tax in Entry 50 List II is the mineral rights – There is a distinction between the two legislative entries – Legislative competence of the States to tax lands under Entry 49 List II will not be affected by the MMDR Act. [Paras 275, 278-280] Constitution of India – Arts.245, 246, 265 – Scheme of distribution of legislative powers between the Parliament and the State Legislature and constitutional limitations – Stated. (per Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI) (for himself and for Hrishikesh Roy, Abhay S Oka, J.B. Pardiwala, Manoj Misra, Ujjal Bhuyan, Satish Chandra Sharma and Augustine George Masih, JJ.) [Paras 29-37] Constitution of India – Seventh Schedule – Legislative entries – Interpretation of – Stated. (per Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI) (for himself and for Hrishikesh Roy, Abhay S Oka, J.B. Pardiwala, Manoj Misra, Ujjal Bhuyan, Satish Chandra Sharma and Augustine George Masih, JJ.) [Paras 38, 40-47] Doctrines/Principles – Public trust doctrine – Natural resources and the public trust doctrine: Held: (per Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI) (for himself and for Hrishikesh Roy, Abhay S Oka, J.B. Pardiwala, Manoj Misra, Ujjal Bhuyan, Satish Chandra Sharma and Augustine George Masih, JJ.) Public trust doctrine is founded on the principle that certain resources are nature’s bounty which ought to be reserved for the whole populace, for the present and for the future – State holds all natural resources, including minerals, as a trustee of the public and must deal with them in a manner consistent with the nature of such a trust – Central Government or State Government may not always be the owner of the underlying minerals – Constitution has entrusted the Union and the States with the responsibility to regulate mines and mineral development in consonance with the principles of the public trust doctrine and sustainable development of mineral resources – Entrustment to the State being subject to the power of Parliament to regulate the domain – Under the MMDR Act, the Central Government, acting as a public trustee of minerals, regulates prospecting and mining operations in public interest. [Paras 55, 57-60] [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1571 Mineral Area Development Authority & Anr. v. M/s Steel Authority of India & Anr. Etc. Tax/Taxation – Nature of – True test – Measure of tax and levy of tax – Nexus between: Held: (per Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI) (for himself and for Hrishikesh Roy, Abhay S Oka, J.B. Pardiwala, Manoj Misra, Ujjal Bhuyan, Satish Chandra Sharma and Augustine George Masih, JJ.) Among its elements tax has to provide for the charge of tax, the incidence of tax, the measure of the tax and would contain provisions in the nature of the machinery for assessment and recovery – Measure of tax is not a true test of the nature of tax – Standard adopted as a measure of tax may be a relevant consideration in determining the nature of tax, but is not conclusive – Nexus between the measure and levy of tax need not be “direct and immediate” – Nexus has to be “reasonable” and must have some relationship with the nature of levy – Reasonability of the nexus would largely depend upon the nature of the tax and the means available with the legislature to design the measure of the tax – Since the measure of the levy is a matter of legislative policy and convenience, the reasonability of the nexus between the measure and tax has to be determined by the courts on a case-to-case basis.