But in to constitute a sale, the parties must intend to transfer the ownership of the property for a price to be paid in present time or in future. Sub-section (2) of Section 55 states that the seller shall be deemed to contract with the buyer that interest which the seller professes to transfer to the buyer which subsists and he has power to transfer the same. Proviso thereto further states that, where the sale is made by a person in a fiduciary character, he shall be deemed to contract with the buyer that the seller has done no act whereby the property is encumbered or whereby he is hindered from transferring it. 14.4 Similarly, gift is the transfer of certain existing movable or immovable property made voluntarily and without consideration, by one person, called the donor, to another, called the donee, and accepted by or on behalf of the donee. Such acceptance must be made during the lifetime of the donor and while he is still capable of giving. If the donee dies before acceptance, the gift is void. The donor is the person who gives. Any person who is sui juris can make a gift of his property. Therefore, it is only a person who is the owner of the property, can gift 894 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports his property and according to the provisions of the Transfer of Property Act. 14.5 In the same vein, an exchange is when an exchange of immovable property takes place when two persons mutually transfer the ownership of one thing for the ownership of another, neither thing or both things being money only. A transfer of property in completion of an exchange can be made only in a manner provided for the transfer of such property by sale. In the case of an exchange also, the person must have the ownership in the property before the same can be exchanged for any immovable property. 14.6 Similarly, transfer of ownership of movable property is by sale, gift or exchange and in the case of a sale, the provisions of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930 would apply. 14.7 Transfer of ownership other than transfer inter vivos is by succession or inheritance under a testament or a will/codicil in which case, the provisions of the Indian Succession Act, 1925 would have to be adhered to. 14.8 In the context of acquisition of land under the power of eminent domain such as under the provisions of Land Acquisition Act, 1894 or the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013, there is divesting of ownership of the owner of the property only when land “vests absolutely in the Government free from all encumbrances” such as under Section 16 of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894. This Court in Fruit and Vegetable Merchants Union, Subzi Mandi, Delhi vs. Delhi Improvement Trust, Regal Buildings, Cannaught Place, AIR 1957 SC 344 has held that the property acquired becomes the property of the Government without any conditions or limitations either as to title or possession when it vests free from all encumbrances in the Government.