25. Even otherwise, absence of approval before conducting any enquiry or inquiry or investigation into an offence alleged to have been committed by a public servant, as contemplated in Section 17A could never be the ground for quashing the FIR registered against 18 (2012) 3 SCC 64 19 (2014) 8 SCC 682 600 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the public servant or the proceedings conducted against him, more particularly when he is also charged for the other offences under the IPC in respect of the same set of allegations. As stated earlier, there are other important facets contained in Section 17A, like whether the alleged offence is relatable to the recommendation made or decision taken by the public servant or not, and whether such recommendation or decision was made or taken in discharge of his official functions or duties or not etc. Such facets could be examined only when the evidence is led during the course of trial. The alleged acts which prima facie constitute the offences, though done under the purported exercise of official function or duty, could not fall within the purview of Section 17A. The Protection sought to be granted to a public servant under Section 17A could not be extended to his acts which prima facie were not in discharge of his official functions or duties. Any other interpretation would certainly tantamount to scuttling the investigation at a very nascent stage. Such could neither be the intention of the legislature nor could such provision be interpreted in the manner which would be counter productive or frustrating the very object of the PC Act. 26. In response to the court’s query as to how an FIR could have been registered in 2021 for the offences under Section 13(1)(c) and 13(1) (d) which have already been deleted by the Amendment Act 2018, Mr. Rohtagi submitted that though the old provision of Section 13 has been substituted by the new provision, and though Section 13(1)(c) and 13(1)(d) are no more offences under the amended provision of Section 13, the right of the investigating agency which had accrued to investigate the crime which took place prior to the amended provision of Section 13, continues in view of Clauses ‘c’ and ‘e’ of Section 6 of the General Clauses Act. According to him, unless a different intention appears in the Amendment Act 2018, the right of the investigating agency to investigate the offences under Section 13(1)(c) and 13(1) (d) could not be said to have been affected by the Amendment Act 2018. I find substance in the said submission of Mr. Rohtagi, in view of the observations made by this Court in M.C. Gupta vs. Central Bureau of Investigation, Dehradun20, which clinches the issue. 20 (2012) 8 SCC 669 [2024] 1 S.C.R. 601 Nara Chandrababu Naidu v. The State of Andhra Pradesh & Anr. “14. Viewed from this angle, clauses (c) and (e) of Section 6 of the GC Act become relevant for the present case. Sub-clause (c) says that if any Central Act repeals any enactment, the repeal shall not affect any right, privilege, obligation or liability acquired, accrued or incurred under any enactment so repealed.