(2) The Reserve Bank may, on representation made to it or on its own motion, modify or cancel any direction issued under sub-section (1), and in so modifying or cancelling any direction may impose such conditions as it thinks fit, subject to which the modification or cancellation shall have effect.” 9. Thus, Section 21 read with Section 35A makes it clear that the directions issued by the Reserve Bank of India to the Banking companies are binding on them and they are bound to comply with such directions. 10. As stated earlier, the whole controversy in the instant appeals centers around the Notification dated 29.05.2015 issued by the Central Government in exercise of the powers conferred by Section 9 of the MSMED Act. The said Notification contains the Instructions for the “Framework for Revival and Rehabilitation of MSMEs”. The [2024] 8 S.C.R. 147 M/s Pro Knits v. The Board of Directors of Canara Bank & Ors. relevant part thereof with regard to the identification of the incipient stress and the committees for stressed MSMEs being relevant are reproduced hereunder: - “NOTIFICATION S.O.(E). 1432 In exercise of the powers conferred in section 9 of the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006, the Central Government, for the purpose of facilitating the promotion and development of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises, hereby notifies the instructions for the Framework for Revival and Rehabilitation of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (hereinafter referred to as the “Framework”), which shall come into force on the date of its publication in the official Gazette, namely the Framework for Revival and Rehabilitation of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises. 1. Identification of incipient stress (1) Identification by Banks or creditors - Before a loan account of a Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise turns into a Non-Performing Asset (NPA), banks or creditors are required to identify incipient stress in the account by creating three sub - categories under the Special Mention Account (SMA) category as given in the Table below: Special Mention Basis for Account classification Sub-categories (1) (2) SMA-0 Principal or interest payment not overdue for more than 30 days but account showing signs of incipient stress SMA-1 Principal or interest payment overdue between 31-60 days SMA-2 Principal or interest payment overdue between 61-90 days 148 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (2) Identification by the Enterprise - Any Micro, Small or Medium Enterprise may voluntarily initiate proceedings under this Framework if enterprise reasonably apprehends failure or its business or its inability or likely inability to pay debts and before the accumulated losses of the enterprise equals to half or more of its entire net worth. (3) The application for initiation of the proceedings under this Framework shall be verified by an affidavit of authorised person. (4) When such a request is received by lender, the account should be processed as SMA-0 and the Committee under this Framework should be formed immediately. 2. Committees for Stressed Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises. (1) Subject to any regulations prescribed by the Reserve Bank of India for this Framework, all banks shall constitute one or more Committees at such locations as may be considered necessary by the board of directors of such bank to provide reasonable access, to all eligible Micro, Small and Medium enterprises which have availed of credit facilities from such bank.