9.2.5 In the earlier litigation of Synthetics and Chemicals (7J), the question was whether the State Legislature could levy vend fee or excise duty on “industrial alcohol”. The seven-Judge Bench answered in the negative as “industrial alcohol” being unfit for human consumption, the State Legislature was incompetent to levy any duty of excise either under Entry 51 or Entry 8 - List II of the Seventh Schedule. The of this Court in Synthetics and Chemicals (7J) has been considered in later decisions and they could be adverted to at this stage itself. Bileshwar Khand Udyog: 9.3 In Shri Bileshwar Khand Udyog Khedut Sahakari Mandali Ltd. vs. State of Gujarat (1992) 2 SCC 42 (“Bileshwar Khand Udyog”), it was observed that Synthetics and Chemicals (7J) finally brought down the curtain in respect of “industrial alcohol” by taking it out of the purview of both Entry 8 and Entry 51 - List II and the competency of the State to frame any legislation to levy any tax or duty was excluded. But by that a provision enacted by the State for supervision which is squarely covered under Entry 33 – List III which deals with production, supply and distribution which includes regulation cannot be assailed. It was further observed as under: “4. …The Bench in Synthetic & Chemical’s case made it clear that even though the power to levy tax or duty on industrial alcohol vested in the Central Government the State was still left with power to lay down regulations to ensure that non-potable alcohol, that is, industrial alcohol, was not diverted and misused as substitute for potable alcohol. … In paragraph 88 of the decision it was observed that in respect of industrial alcohol the States, were not authorised to impose the impost as they have purported to do in that case but that did not effect [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2087 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons any imposition of fee where there were circumstance, to establish that there was quid pro quo for the fee nor it will affect any regulatory measure.” 9.4 It was further observed that the principle of occupied field precluded States from trenching on any power which was already covered by a Central legislation. But in absence of any provision in IDRA touching upon regulation or ensuring that “industrial alcohol” was not diverted the State was competent to legislate on it under Entry 33 – List III. Gujchem Distillers: 9.5 In Gujchem Distillers India Ltd. vs. State of Gujarat (1992) 2 SCC 399 (“Gujchem Distillers”), the in Synthetics and Chemicals (7J) was followed and the fee of 7 paise per litre was held to be a regulatory measure, namely, for denaturation of spirit and supervision of the said process. Modi Distillery: 9.6 In State of UP vs. Modi Distillery (1995) 5 SCC 753 (“Modi Distillery”), the facts were that the Allahabad High Court had allowed the writ petitions filed by the respondents therein who are manufacturers of Indian-made foreign liquor and quashed the s impugned demanding excise duty from them.