18. The Division Bench also noted that though it is the specific case on behalf of the original Petitioners that counting the earlier services of 85 Assistant Professors as ad hoc is absolutely illegal, still the very Petitioners are asking the same pay which all those 85 Assistant 478 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Professors are getting by counting their earlier ad hoc services, meaning thereby, it can be said that the original Petitioners pray that they may also be granted the benefit of such illegality. There cannot be negative discrimination. Accordingly, it was held that the Single Judge had materially erred in granting the benefit of stepping up under Rule 21. The Division Bench allowed the appeals preferred by the State and set aside the passed by the Single Judge. 19. Aggrieved by the said , the original writ Petitioners are in appeals before us. We have heard Mr. Shyam Divan, learned senior counsel appearing for the appellants and Mr. Kanu Agarwal and Ms. Swati Ghildiyal, learned counsels appearing for the respondents. ARGUMENTS ADVANCED – 20. Appellants have submitted that it is an undeniable fact that the subsequent appointees are junior to the Petitioners. The appellants who are seniors are seeking pay parity with the junior members of the cadre. That the instant case fulfils the requisite conditions for invoking Rule 21 of the 2002 Pay Rules as the said rule does not contemplate such anomalous situation where the junior is paid more salary than the senior. It was argued that the provisions of Rule 21 are applicable in the fact-situation of the present case in view of: - a. Junior and senior government employees belong to one and same cadre; b. Time-scale of pay of the lower post held by the junior and senior is identical; and, c. Time-scale of the higher-post to which the government employee is promoted, is identical. 21. It is also submitted by the appellants that the State Government has resolved that Career Advancement Scheme is in the nature of promotion as indicated in the UGC guideline. Thus, Rule 21 is applicable and if the junior to the appellants have been granted the benefit of Career Advancement Scheme, the appellants who are senior to them, are entitled to the salary that they draw when the appellants are granted the benefit of Career Advancement Scheme. 22. Further, at one point, it is also argued by some of the appellants that the change from ad hoc to regular employees should be treated as break in service and service rendered as ad hoc ought not to [2024] 8 S.C.R. 479 Maheshkumar Chandulal Patel & Anr. v. The State of Gujarat & Ors. be considered at the time of calculating total length of service. The Respondents, by passing the aforementioned resolutions, have led to the present anomaly. 23. Appellants also argued that if juniors get higher pay than the seniors, and the seniors have no promotional avenue, their seniority becomes insignificant. In that case, the very purpose of making regular appointment through GPSC after following the due recruitment process would be frustrated and this could have demoralizing effect on the working of seniors.