The said Mining Plan had the approval of the MoC which did not raise any objection relating to the absence of any condition for dealing with the coal rejects. The inevitable conclusion is that disposal of the coal rejects was to be undertaken by KECML strictly in terms of Article 5(2)(b) of the JVA and no more. 14.3. Moreover, a closer look at the clauses of the JVA and FSA clearly indicate that KECML was only obliged to provide a specified grade of washed coal (Grade – D) having a specific GCV in the range of 4200-4940 Kcal/kg.85 When coal has been defined in the JVA and FSA as “washed coal with guaranteed value” and one that satisfied the parameters laid down in Annex-1 attached to the JVA and FSA86 and further, KECML was required to ensure that all “shales/stones” are removed from the coal before making the supply,87 there was no occasion for KECML to account for the rejects. All that KPCL was required to do was to buy from KECML, the washed coal with a particular guaranteed value and one that would satisfy the specified quality parameters, at a predetermined price.88 The agreement governing the parties required KECML to dispose off the rejects safely. KECML was not required to account for the coal rejects to KPCL. KPCL itself understood the clauses in the JVA and the FSA to mean the same and it was satisfied with the manner in which KECML was discharging its obligations under the agreements till Audit Objections were raised by the CAG in October, 2013. That’s when KPCL did a complete flip flop and for the first time, raised a demand on KECML seeking reimbursement towards the value of the coal rejects, a decision that was successfully assailed by the appellants in the High 85 ‘Grade D Coal’ as defined under ‘Definition and Interpretation’ clause of the JVA dt 13th September, 2002. 86 ‘Coal’ as defined under ‘Definition and Interpretation’ clause of the JVA dt. 13th September, 2002 and Article 1 of FSA dt. 09th May, 2007 87 Article 5.2.2 of the FSA 88 Annexure-II of the JVA and Article 6.1.1 of the FSA [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1237 M/s Karnataka Emta Coal Mines Limited and Another v. Central Bureau of Investigation Court and the challenge laid by KPCL to the said judgement was repelled by this Court. 15. CAN KECML BE BLAMED FOR NOT SETTING UP THE COAL WASHERY AT THE PITHEAD? 15.1. As for the allegation levelled by the respondent–CBI that KECML violated the terms of Articles 2(4)(g) and 5(2)(b) of the JVA having failed to setup the coal washery at the pithead, the sequence of events narrated above, shows that the fault does not lie at the door of the appellants. It was on account of some litigation between CIPCO and MoC in relation to the coal blocks allocated to KPCL wherein interim s were granted by the High Court in favour of CIPCO, that the project got delayed. Production of coal could commence only in September, 2008 after the aforesaid litigation came to an end.