[2024] 10 S.C.R. 69 Kailashben Mahendrabhai Patel & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Anr. 9.2 Further, the rights and claims in the suit are the very basis and provocation for filing the criminal cases. The Complaint/ FIR is replete with just one theme i.e. that the appellants are threatening them that they will deny share in the property. The Complaint/FIR is intended only to further their interest of the civil dispute. In G. Sagar Suri v. State of U.P 2 this Court cautioned that: “8. Jurisdiction under Section 482 of the Code has to be exercised with great care. In exercise of its jurisdiction the High Court is not to examine the matter superficially. It is to be seen if a matter, which is essentially of a civil nature, has been given a cloak of criminal offence. Criminal proceedings are not a short cut of other remedies available in law. Before issuing process a criminal court has to exercise a great deal of caution. For the accused it is a serious matter. This Court has laid certain principles on the basis of which the High Court is to exercise its jurisdiction under Section 482 of the Code. Jurisdiction under this section has to be exercised to prevent abuse of the process of any court or otherwise to secure the ends of justice.” 9.3 The duty of the court, when FIR has predominating and overwhelming civil flavour is also reflected in the opinion of this Court in Jaswant Singh v. State of Punjab,3 this court observed that: “19. From the above discussion on the settled legal principles, it is clear from the facts of the present case that there was a clear abuse of the process of the Court and further that the Court had a duty to secure the ends of justice. We say so for the following reasons; a) The allegations made in the FIR had an overwhelmingly and predominatingly a civil 2 (2000) 2 SCC 636. 3 [2021] 6 SCR 1100 : 2021 SCC OnLine SC 1007. 70 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports flavour inasmuch as the complainant alleged that he had paid money to Gurmeet Singh, the main accused to get employment for his son abroad. If Gurmeet Singh failed the complainant could have filed a suit for recovery of the amount paid for not fulfilling the promise. … 20. In our considered view, the High Court erred in firstly not considering the entire material on record and further in not appreciating the fact that the dispute, if any, was civil in nature and that the complainant had already settled his score with the main accused Gurmeet Singh against whom the proceedings have been closed as far back as 26.09.2014. In this scenario, there remains no justification to continue with the proceedings against the appellant.” 10. We will now examine the ‘specific allegations’ in the FIR/complaint. Firstly, the complainant referred to certain items which are said to have been given by her father at the time of marriage.