● 267. Classification necessary in the case of every convict- The Superintendent shall see that every convicted prisoner has been 232 Ibid, Section 27 233 Ibid, Section 34. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 587 Sukanya Shantha v. Union of India & Ors. classified as habitual or casual in accordance with the form of classification furnished by the convicting court. ● 269. In a jail where prisoners of more than one class are confined, the Superintendent shall make arrangements, as far as possible, for the complete segregation of different classes in separate circles, enclosures or barracks in accordance with the requirements of section 27 of the Prisons Act, 1894 and the rules contained in this chapter. ● 270. Segregation of casual from habitual prisoners - Casual convicts shall as far as possible, be kept separate from habitual convicts. ● 271. There shall, as far as possible, be separate wards for nonprofessional and professional sub-categories of habitual prisoners. Prisoners belonging to the latter sub-category should be kept entirely separate from all other categories of prisoners. ● 289. Rules for observance - A convict sentenced to simple imprisonment, -(a) shall rise and retire to rest at such hours as may be prescribed by the Superintendent ;(b) shall be permitted to wear his own clothes, which if insufficient for decency or warmth shall be supplemented by such jail clothing, not exceeding the scale provided for convicts sentenced to rigorous imprisonment, as may be necessary to make up the deficiency, but shall wear the ordinary convict’s clothing if he elects to labour and is employed on extra-mural labour;(c) shall clean his own cell, barrack or yard and keep his bedding and clothing in a clean and ly condition;(d) shall, with the approval of the Superintendent, be allowed to possess and use his own books and periodicals in addition to those available from the prison library;(e) shall not be allowed to purchase his own food;(f) shall not be shaved unless he desires it or under the s of the Medical Officer on grounds of health;(g) shall not be called upon to perform duties of a degrading or menial character unless he belongs to a class or community accustomed to perform such duties; but may be required to carry water for his own use provided he belongs to the class of society the members of which are accustomed to perform such duties in their own homes. 588 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports The West Bengal Jail Code Rules for Superintendence and Management of Jail in West Bengal, 1967 ● 404. Qualification for eligibility of a convict overseer for appointment as a night guard – A convict overseer may be appointed to be a night guard provided— (a) that he has served as a convict overseer for three months; (b) that he does not belong to any class that may have a strong natural tendency to escape, such as men of wandering tribes and those whose homes are outside India; and (c) that his antecedents have been verified through the Superintendent of Police.