As per the findings of the trial court, the plaintiff is an absolute owner of suit properties. The respondents have filed the cross appeal challenging the said appeal. But the trial court comes to conclusion that the plaintiff is not in possession over the suit properties. That is the reason plaint came to be dismissed. But the legal heirs of the plaintiff are still contending that they have continued the possession over the suit properties. But they want to amend the plaint by inserting the alternative prayer of possession. Since the possession is a fact in issue between the parties, it has to be ascertained at the time of argument. However, the proposed amendment is just an alternative relief of possession, the entitlement of the said relief is subject to proof of the particular fact. If the legal heirs of plaintiff are able to establish the possession, seeking the possession is not necessary. On the other hand, if they failed to prove the possession as it is settled principle of law without seeking possession, suit for declaration is not maintainable when the party is not in possession over the properties. Hence the proposed amendment is just and necessary to resolve the actual dispute between the parties. 12. It is settled principle of the law that appeal is the continuation of the proceedings and even the parties can amend their pleadings before the appellate court also subject to proof of the fact. At this juncture it is beneficial to refer the decision of Hon’ble High Court of Karnataka reported in 2016 KCCR(1) 73 in between 1890 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports Puttamaramma V/s Giriyappa & Ors. wherein Hon’ble High Court in para-17 held as hereunder: “17. Appeal being continuation of original proceedings and Appellate Court having power to exercise all the powers vested with the trial Court, would necessarily have power to examine an application filed under 6, Rule 17 CPC and it cannot be said that such power to entertain the application for amendment by the Appellate Court would not be available on the ground of proviso to Rule 17 of VI CPC curtailing such power which in fact it does not for the reasons already indicated herein above. An appeal being proceedings in continuation of original suit, it can be safely concluded that First Appellate Court is vested with similar power possessed by Court of original jurisdiction. Language employed in sub section (2) of Section 107 CPC is clear, unambiguous and explicit, which would clearly indicate that Appellate Court shall have the same power and shall perform as nearly as may be the same duties as are conferred and imposed by the Code on Courts of original jurisdiction in respect of suits instituted therein.” In view of the dictum of Hon’ble High Court the First Appellate Court can exercise the power under 6 rule 17 of CPC as it is a continuation of the proceedings. Hence as per the detailed discussion above IA deserved to be allowed. Accordingly point No.