However read, they must be intended to serve in some sense as a condition limiting the exercise of an otherwise arbitrary power. But if the question whether the condition has been satisfied is to be conclusively decided by the man who wields the power the value of the intended restraint is in effect nothing. No doubt he must not exercise the power in bad faith; but the field in which this kind of question arises is such that the reservation for the case of bad faith is hardly more than a formality.” While agreeing with the first part of the aforesaid quotation, the Constitution Bench went on to refer to Joseph Kuruvilla Vellukunnel v. Reserve Bank of India and others,30 wherein Hidayatullah, J., speaking for the majority, had observed: “It is enough to say that the Reserve Bank in its dealings with banking companies does not act on suspicion but on proved facts.” Thereafter, it was further observed: “But this seems certain that the action (winding up) would not be taken up without scrutinising all the evidence and checking and re-checking all the findings.” 32. Accordingly, in Barium Chemicals Ltd. (supra), it was held that the expression “reason to believe” is not a subjective process altogether, not lending itself even to a limited scrutiny of the court that such “reason to believe” or opinion is not formed on relevant facts or within the limits. 28 [1966] Supp. 1 SCR 311 : AIR 1967 SC 295 29 1951 A C 66 30 [1962] Supp. 3 SCR 632 : AIR 1962 SC 1371 2392 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 33. Section 26 of the IPC, defines the expression “reason to believe” as sufficient cause to believe a thing and not otherwise. Joti Parshad v. State of Haryana,31 referring to Section 26 of the IPC, has observed: “5… “Reason to believe” is not the same thing as “suspicion” or “doubt” and mere seeing also cannot be equated to believing. “Reason to believe” is a higher level of state of mind. Likewise “knowledge” will be slightly on a higher plane than “reason to believe”. A person can be supposed to know where there is a direct appeal to his senses and a person is presumed to have a reason to believe if he has sufficient cause to believe the same. Section 26 IPC explains the meaning of the words “reason to believe” thus: “26. ‘Reason to believe’.— A person is said to have ‘reason to believe’ a thing, if he has sufficient cause to believe that thing but not otherwise.” In substance what it means is that a person must have reason to believe if the circumstances are such that a reasonable man would, by probable reasoning, conclude or infer regarding the nature of the thing concerned. Such circumstances need not necessarily be capable of absolute conviction or inference; but it is sufficient if the circumstances are such creating a cause to believe by chain of probable reasoning leading to the conclusion or inference about the nature of the thing…” 34.