Supreme Court Reports impliedly, and (iii) delivery of possession either actually or constructively to the donee, are to be satisfied; that solely because the writing is contemporaneous of the making of the gift deed, it does not warrant registration under Section 17 of the Registration Act.” (Emphasis supplied) This position was reiterated by this Court in Hafeeza Bibi v. Sk. Farid 24 - “10. In Mahboob Sahab v. Syed Ismail [(1995) 3 SCC 693] this Court referred to Principles of Mahomedan Law by Mulla, 19th Edn. and in para 5 noticed the legal position, in relation to a gift by a Muslim incorporated therein, thus: (SCC pp. 696-97) “5….It would, thus, be clear that though gift by a Mohammadan is not required to be in writing and consequently need not be registered under the Registration Act; for a gift to be complete, there should be a declaration of the gift by the donor; acceptance of the gift, expressed or implied, by or on behalf of the donee, and delivery of possession of the property, the subject-matter of the gift by the donor to the donee. The donee should take delivery of the possession of that property either actually or constructively. On proof of these essential conditions, the gift becomes complete and valid. In case of immovable property in the possession of the donor, he should completely divest himself physically of the subject of the gift.” (Emphasis supplied) This Court in D.N. Joshi v. D.C. Harris25 placed reliance on the following observation of Hafeeza Bibi (supra): 24 [2011] 5 SCR 1155 : (2011) 5 SCC 654 25 [2017] 7 SCR 326 : (2017) 12 SCC 624 [2024] 12 S.C.R. 941 Mansoor Saheb (Dead) & Ors. v. Salima (D) By Lrs. & Ors. “31… 27. In our opinion, merely because the gift is reduced to writing by a Mohammadan instead of it having been made orally, such writing does not become a formal document or instrument of gift. When a gift could be made by a Mohammadan orally, its nature and character is not changed because of it having been made by a written document. What is important for a valid gift under Mohammadan Law is that three essential requisites must be fulfilled. The form is immaterial. If all the three essential requisites are satisfied constituting a valid gift, the transaction of gift would not be rendered invalid because it has been written on a plain piece of paper. The distinction that if a written deed of gift recites the factum of prior gift then such deed is not required to be registered but when the writing is contemporaneous with the making of the gift, it must be registered, is inappropriate and does not seem to us to be in conformity with the rule of gifts in Mohammadan Law…” (Emphasis supplied) 28. Under Mohammedan Law, a gift is to be effected in the manner laid down under the law. If the conditions prescribed by that law are fulfilled, the gift is valid, even though it is not effected by a registered instrument.