[Paras 11, 12 and 13] Bill of Lading – Purpose of, Explained. Held: A Bill of Lading serves the following purposes: (a) it is receipt of the goods shipped and the terms on which they have been received; (b) it is evidence for the contract of carriage of goods; and (c) it is a document of title for the goods specified therein. [Para 8] Territorial Jurisdiction – Question of – Stage at which to be decided – At the outset. Held: The issue of territorial jurisdiction should be decided at the outset rather than being deferred till the matter is resolved. [Para 15] List of Acts Code of Civil Procedure Code, 1908. List of Keywords Territorial Jurisdiction, Bill of Lading, Dominus Litis, Letters of Credit, Sale of Goods. Case Arising From CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 5599 of 2024 From the and dated 08.01.2024 of the High Court of Delhi at New Delhi in FAO (OS) (COMM) 19 of 2019 406 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Appearances for Parties E.R. Kumar, D.P. Mohanty, Ms. Sonal Gupta, Ms. Manisha Arya, Abhishek Thakral, M/S. Parekh & Co., Advs. for the Petitioner. Joy Basu, Shashank Gautam, Arvind Thapliyal, Surya Kapoor, Ms. Saravna Vasanta, Siddhant Pandey, Rajesh Banati, Ashish Sareen, Anoop George, Kunal Chaterjee, Ms. Aagam Kaur, Advs. for the Respondents. / of the Supreme Court Sanjiv Khanna, J. Leave granted. 2. This gives reasons and decides a question of territorial jurisdiction under the Code of Civil Procedure, 19081. 3. We begin by briefly referring to the facts of the case and pleadings in the plaint - Suit No. 458/2000: ο The original plaintiff is Bhushan Steel & Strips Ltd2. Bhushan Steel has merged with Tata Steel Limited (respondent no. 1 before this Court). ο The defendant nos. 1-4 are, TYO Trading Enterprises3 (respondent no. 2 before this Court), Commercial Bank of Ethiopia4 (respondent no. 3 before this Court), Arcadia Shipping Limited5 (appellant before this Court) and M.G. Trading Worldwide Pvt Ltd6 (respondent no. 4 before this Court). ο Bhushan Steel was, inter alia, a manufacturer of galvanized steel corrugated sheets. ο TYO Trading was a company based in Ethiopia that had instructed its agent, M.G. Trading, to place certain supply 1 For short, “Code.” 2 For short, “Bhushan Steel”. 3 For short, “TYO Trading”. 4 For short, “Bank of Ethiopia”. 5 For short, “Arcadia”. 6 For short, “M.G. Trading”. [2024] 5 S.C.R. 407 Arcadia Shipping Ltd. v. Tata Steel Limited and Others s for galvanized steel corrugated sheets with Bhushan Steel. ο Accordingly, M.G. Trading placed s with Bhushan Steel, at Delhi, for the supply of 400 MT of galvanized steel corrugated sheets. ο TYO Trading had initially opened the Letter of Credit in favour of its agent M.G. Trading. ο Subsequently, the Letter of Credit was transferred in the name of Bhushan Steel, pursuant to which, the material was dispatched by Bhushan Steel, as per the supply s. ο The material was loaded by the shippers, Arcadia, in their vessel - Winco Pioneer, from a port in Mumbai, India to a port in Djibouti, Ethiopia.