Books and Periodicals Cited Whittaker Chambers, Witness Quotes (Washington DC, Regnery Gateway, 1952) p.5; Witness Protection in Criminal Trial in India by Girish Abhyankar & Asawari Abhyankar. List of Acts Notaries Act, 1952; Notaries Rules, 1956; Supreme Court Rules, 2013; Bar Council of India Rules; Bhartiya Nyaya Sanhita, 2023. [2024] 9 S.C.R. 777 Bhagwan Singh v. State of U.P. & Ors. List of Keywords Abuse of process of law; Misuse of process of law; Fraud; Fraud on Court; False proceedings; False, fabricated documents; Nitish Katara case; False implication; Unscrupulous litigants; Notary; Notarized by Notary; Vakaltnamas; CBI; Investigation handed over to CBI; Affidavit notarized in absence of person; Witnesses; Condition of witnesses; Legal profession; Role of advocates; Degradation of professional ethics; Advocates-on-Record (AoRs); Appearances given by AoRs. Case Arising From CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal Nos. 3883-3884 of 2024 From the and dated 16.12.2019 and 02.04.2024 of the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad in A482 No. 41533 of 2019 and CRMRA No. 3 of 2020 respectively Appearances for Parties Siddhartha Dave, Sr. Adv., Anubhav, Ms. Jemtiben AO, Nikhil Majithia, Rishi Kumar Singh Gautam, Advs. for the Appellant. Ms. Sakshi Kakkar, Harsh Pratap Shahi, Sanchar Anand, Apoorva Singhal, Shiv Kumar, Varinder Kumar Sharma, Advs. for the Respondents. / of the Supreme Court Bela M. Trivedi, J. 1. Delay condoned. 2. Leave granted. PREFACE 3. While the finest of the legal minds and legal eagles on the Bench and in the Bar of the Supreme Court are busy developing the best of the jurisprudence and laying down the best of the laws for the country, there are certain sinister cabal of unscrupulous litigants and 778 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports a coterie of their counsellors, who are always busy in taking undue advantage of the systemic lacunae and in misusing the process of law, in turn damaging the image of the Courts as also of the entire legal fraternity/legal profession. The huge quantum of work load in the Courts, limitations of the human agencies in manning the Justice Delivery System and the fertile minds of the unscrupulous litigants and their legal counsellors are some of the factors responsible for not allowing the Justice Delivery System to work as effectively and efficiently as it is expected to work. 4. The wrongdoers must fear the law that they will be punished, the innocents must rest assured that they will not be, and the victims must be confident that they will get the justice. This is what a citizen of the democratic country like India, governed by Rule of Law would legitimately expect from the Courts. The Courts are called the ‘Temple of Justice’. However, often brazen attempts are being made to abuse and misuse the process of law by committing frauds on Courts. This is one of such cases where such an attempt has been made to pollute the stream of justice. With this little Preface let us deal with the facts of the case. PROCEEDINGS BEFORE THIS COURT 5. The instant two appeals were sought to be filed in the name of the appellant- Bhagwan Singh.