519 Sukanya Shantha v. Union of India & Ors. long shall we continue to live this life of contradictions? How long shall we continue to deny equality in our social and economic life? If we continue to deny it for long, we will do so only by putting our political democracy in peril. We must remove this contradiction at the earliest possible moment or else those who suffer from inequality will blow up the structure of political democracy which this Assembly has so laboriously built up.”28 The vision laid down by Dr. Ambedkar, Jaipal Singh Munda, H.J. Khandekar, and Dakshayani Velayudhan, among others, emphasizes that there shall be no discrimination in the country. The Constitution envisions a society where there is no room for anyone to feel superior to another citizen. 17. The chapter on fundamental rights places the provisions on equality, non-discrimination, equality of opportunity, affirmative action, abolition of untouchability, freedom of speech and expression, right to life, and prohibition of forced labour together. This has been done for a special reason. The framers of the Constitution conceptualized that without the provisions on the prohibition of discrimination, abolition of untouchability, and prohibition on forced labour, the imagination of broader rights such as equality before law, freedom of speech and expression, and the right to life would remain incomplete. The Constitution thus complements the basic principles of constitutionalism with provisions designed specifically to address India’s social problems. 18. This underlying philosophy of the Constitution has been highlighted by this Court in several s. Chief Justice S.M. Sikri, in his opinion in Kesavananda Bharati v. State of Kerala,29 held that the objective of various provisions of the Constitution is to build “a welfare State and an egalitarian social in our country”, and “to bring about a socio-economic transformation based on principles of social justice”. Referring to Part III of the Constitution, the stated that the founders were “anxious that it should be a society where the citizen will enjoy the various freedoms and such rights as are the basic elements of those freedoms without which there can be no dignity of individual”. 28 Constituent Assembly Debates (25 November 1949) 29 [1973] Supp. 1 SCR 1 : (1973) 4 SCC 225 520 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 19. Justice Krishna Iyer in his concurring opinion in State of Kerala v. N.M. Thomas30 called the Constitution “a great social document, almost revolutionary in its aim of transforming a medieval, hierarchical society into a modern, egalitarian democracy”. In Indian Medical Association v. Union of India,31 the Court held that “various aspects of social justice, and an egalitarian social , were also inscribed, not as exceptions to the formal content of equality but as intrinsic, vital and necessary components of the basic equality code itself”. 20. This Court held in Justice K.S. Puttaswamy v. Union of India32 that the “vision of the founding fathers was enriched by the histories of suffering of those who suffered oppression and a violation of dignity both here and elsewhere”.