village Khatta, U.P. The fact regarding his abscondence was also published. Accordingly, a charge sheet came to be filed under Section 299 CrPC showing the accused appellant to be an absconder. 26. The trial Court passed an dated 18th March, 1991 declaring the accused appellant to be an absconder and permission was granted to the prosecution to proceed with the trial by resorting to the procedure under Section 299 CrPC. This was never questioned before any court of law. 27. The trial Judge recorded the statement of Ashok Kumar Pathak, the complainant as PW-1 under Section 299 CrPC on 17th July, 1991 after administrating oath to him which begins in the following manner: - “Shri Ashok Kumar Pathak, s/o Shri Ram Puran aged 28 years, R/O Kartar Nagar, Gali No. 14, Delhi on S.A. (sworn affirmation)” 28. This statement bears the signature of the presiding officer of the Court and so also of the complainant Ashok Kumar Pathak. Three more witnesses, namely, Head Constables Mohan Lal and Surender Kumar and Inspector Bal Kishan were also examined on oath in proceedings under Section 299 CrPC. 29. In this background, the fervent submission of the learned counsel for the appellant that the prosecution only exhibited the statement of complainant Ashok Kumar Pathak recorded under Section 161 CrPC and that he was never examined on oath in proceedings under Section 299 CrPC seems to have been made out of sheer ignorance and without ascertaining the correct position from the original record. 30. Section 299 of CrPC expressly provides for the power of the Court to record evidence in absence of the accused in the following term: - “299. Record of evidence in absence of accused.— (1) If it is proved that an accused person has absconded, and that there is no immediate prospect of arresting him, the court competent to try or commit for trial, such person for the offence complained of may, in his absence, examine the witnesses (if any) produced on behalf of the prosecution, and record their depositions and any such deposition may, on the arrest of such person, be given in [2024] 6 S.C.R. 327 Sukhpal Singh v. NCT of Delhi evidence against him on the inquiry into, or trial for, the offence with which he is charged, if the deponent is dead or incapable of giving evidence or cannot be found or his presence cannot be procured without an amount of delay, expense or inconvenience which, under the circumstances of the case, would be unreasonable. (2) If it appears that an offence punishable with death or imprisonment for life has been committed by some person or persons unknown, the High Court or the Sessions Judge may direct that any Magistrate of the First Class shall hold an inquiry and examine any witnesses who can give evidence concerning the offence and any depositions so taken may be given in evidence against any person who is subsequently accused of the offence, if the deponent is dead or incapable of giving evidence or beyond the limits of India.” 31.