We say so, as we have already expressed the opinion that the dicta laid down in Reshma Kumari being earlier in point of time would be a binding precedent and not the decision in Rajesh. 28. In this context, we may also refer to Sundeep Kumar Bafna v. State of Maharashtra [Sundeep Kumar Bafna v. State of Maharashtra (2014) 16 SCC 623 : (2015) 3 SCC (Cri) 558] which correctly lays down the principle that discipline demanded by a precedent or the disqualification or diminution of a decision on the application of the per incuriam rule is of great importance, since without it, certainty of law, consistency of rulings and comity of courts would become a costly casualty. A decision or can be per incuriam any provision in a statute, rule or regulation, which was not brought to the notice of the court. A decision or can also be per incuriam if it is not possible to reconcile its ratio with that of a previously pronounced of a co-equal or larger Bench. There can be no scintilla of doubt that an earlier decision of co-equal Bench binds the Bench of same strength. Though the in Rajesh case was delivered on a later date, it had not apprised itself of the law stated in Reshma Kumari but had been guided by Santosh Devi . We have no hesitation that it is not a binding precedent on the co-equal Bench.” 21. It can thus be seen that, this Court in unequivocal terms has held that an earlier decision of a Bench of particular strength would be binding on the subsequent Benches of this Court having the same or lesser number of judges. 22. While considering the rule of per incuriam, the Constitution Bench of this Court has held that a decision or can be said to be per incuriam if it is not possible to reconcile its ratio with that of a previously pronounced of a co-equal or larger Bench. [2024] 12 S.C.R. 477 Banwari and Others v. Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited(HSIIDC) and Another 23. In any case, the in Pradeep Kumari and Others (supra) has been rendered by three learned Judges of this Court after considering the relevant provisions of the Statute and the principles of interpretation. However, the in the case of Ramsingbhai (Ramsangbhai) Jerambhai (supra) is a short only referring to the text of Section 28-A(1) of the 1894 Act. 24. As already discussed hereinabove, the provisions of Section 28-A(1) of the 1894 Act have been elaborately considered by a three Judges Bench of this Court in the case of Pradeep Kumari and Others (supra). In the said case, it has been held that the Statement of Objects and Reasons of Section 28-A would reveal that the object underlying the enactment of the said provision is to remove inequality in the payment of compensation for same or similar quality of land. It has been held that the said provision is for giving benefit to inarticulate and poor people not being able to take advantage of the right of reference to the civil court under Section 18 of the Act.