In this case, when an offence like multiple murders is committed inside a house in secrecy, the initial burden has to be discharged by the prosecution. Once the prosecution successfully discharged the burden cast upon it, the burden did shift upon the appellant being the only other person inside the four corners of the house to offer a cogent and plausible explanation as to how the offences came to be committed. The appellant has miserably failed on that score. This can be considered as a very important circumstance, constituting a vital link in the chain. 930 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 13. Though the trial Court and the High Court have adverted to few other circumstances, we are satisfied that the circumstances set out hereinabove are by themselves consistent with the sole hypothesis that the accused and the accused alone is the perpetrator of these murders which were most foul. 14. It is also to be noted that the law on the appreciation of circumstantial evidence is well settled and it will be an idle parade of familiar learning to deal with all the cases. We do no more than set out the holding in Sharad Birdhichand Sarda vs. State of Maharashtra (1984) 4 SCC 116, which dealt with the panchsheel or the five principles essential to be kept in mind while convicting an accused in a case based on circumstantial evidence: “153. A close analysis of this decision would show that the following conditions must be fulfilled before a case against an accused can be said to be fully established: (1) the circumstances from which the conclusion of guilt is to be drawn should be fully established. It may be noted here that this Court indicated that the circumstances concerned “must or should” and not “may be” established. There is not only a grammatical but a legal distinction between “may be proved” and “must be or should be proved” as was held by this Court in Shivaji Sahabrao Bobade v. State of Maharashtra [(1973) 2 SCC 793 : 1973 SCC (Cri) 1033 : 1973 Crl LJ 1783] where the observations were made: [SCC para 19, p. 807: SCC (Cri) p. 1047] “Certainly, it is a primary principle that the accused must be and not merely may be guilty before a court can convict and the mental distance between ‘may be’ and ‘must be’ is long and divides vague conjectures from sure conclusions.” (2) the facts so established should be consistent only with the hypothesis of the guilt of the accused, that is to say, they should not be explainable on any other hypothesis except that the accused is guilty, (3) the circumstances should be of a conclusive nature and tendency, [2024] 3 S.C.R. 931 Navas @ Mulanavas v. State of Kerala (4) they should exclude every possible hypothesis except the one to be proved, and (5) there must be a chain of evidence so complete as not to leave any reasonable ground for the conclusion consistent with the innocence of the accused and must show that in all human probability the act must have been done by the accused.