Therefore, the period of limitation for the commencement of an arbitration runs from the date on which, had there been no arbitration clause, the cause of action would have accrued. Just as in the case of civil actions the claim is not to be brought after the expiration of a specified number of years from the date on which the cause of action accrued, so in the case of arbitrations, the claim is not to be put forward after the expiration of the specified number of years from the date when the claim accrued. 12. In Russell on Arbitration…. At p. 80 it is stated thus: ‘An extension of time is not automatic and it is only granted if “undue hardship” would otherwise be caused. Not all hardship, however, is “undue hardship”; it may be proper 98 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports that hardship caused to a party by his own default should be borne by him, and not transferred to the other party by allowing a claim to be reopened after it has become barred.’ ” (emphasis supplied) 50. Having traversed the statutory framework and case law, we are of the clear view that there is no doubt as to the applicability of the Limitation Act, 1963 to arbitration proceedings in general and that of Article 137 of the Limitation Act, 1963 to a petition under Section 11(6) of the Act, 1996 in particular. Having held thus, the next question that falls for our determination is whether the present petition seeking appointment of an arbitrator is barred by limitation. 51. The determination of the aforesaid question is an exercise involving both law and facts. As is evident from Article 137 of the Limitation Act, 1963, the limitation period for making an application under Section 11(6) of the Act, 1996 is three years from the date when the right to apply accrues. Thus, to determine whether the present petition is barred by limitation, it is necessary to ascertain when the right to file the present petition under Section 11(6) of the Act, 1996 accrued in favour of the petitioner. a. When does the right to apply under Section 11(6) accrue? 52. It has been held in a catena of decisions of this Court that the limitation period for making an application seeking appointment of arbitrator must not be conflated or confused with the limitation period for raising the substantive claims which are sought to be referred to an arbitral tribunal. The limitation period for filing an application seeking appointment of arbitrator commences only after a valid notice invoking arbitration has been issued by one of the parties to the other party and there has been either a failure or refusal on part of the other party to make an appointment as per the appointment procedure agreed upon between the parties. 53. O.P. Malhotra in The Law & Practice of Arbitration and Conciliation, 3rd Edition, pp. 688-689 has summarised the position of law on the limitation period for a Section 11(6) petition thus: “There is no specific period of limitation prescribed for making the request under Section 11(6) to the Chief Justice or his designate, to take the necessary measure [2024] 3 S.C.R.