(5) The Board may, by notification, wherever necessary or appropriate, require two or more officers of customs (whether or not of the same class) to have concurrent powers and functions to be performed under this Act.” [2024] 12 S.C.R. 243 Commissioner of Customs v. M/s Canon India Pvt. Ltd. Section 94 - Insertion of new section 110AA to the Act, 1962 “94. After section 110A of the Customs Act, the following section shall be inserted, namely:-- 110AA. Action subsequent to inquiry, investigation or audit or any other specified purpose.- “Where in pursuance of any proceeding, in accordance with Chapter XIIA or this Chapter, if an officer of customs has reasons to believe that-- (a) any duty has been short-levied, not levied, short-paid or not paid in a case where assessment has already been made; (b) any duty has been erroneously refunded; (c) any drawback has been erroneously allowed; or (d) any interest has been short-levied, not levied, short- paid or not paid, or erroneously refunded, then such officer of customs shall, after causing inquiry, investigation, or as the case may be, audit, transfer the relevant documents, along with a report in writing. (i) to the proper officer having jurisdiction, as assigned under section 5 in respect of assessment of such duty, or to the officer who allowed such refund or drawback; or (ii) in case of multiple jurisdictions, to an officer of customs to whom such matter is assigned by the Board, in exercise of the powers conferred under section 5, and thereupon, power exercisable under sections 28, 28AAA or Chapter X, shall be exercised by such proper officer or by an officer to whom the proper officer is subordinate in accordance with sub- section (2) of section 5.” Section 97 - Validation of certain actions taken under the Act, 1962 “97. Notwithstanding anything contained in any , decree or of any court, tribunal, or other authority, or 244 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports in the provisions of the Customs Act, 1962 (52 of 1962), (hereinafter referred to as the Customs Act):- (i) anything done or any duty performed or any action taken or purported to have been taken or done under Chapters V, VAA, VI, IX, X, XI, XII, XIIA, XIII, XIV, XVI and XVII of the Customs Act, as it stood prior to its amendment by this Act, shall be deemed to have been validly done or performed or taken; (ii) any notification issued under the Customs Act for appointing or assigning functions to any officer shall be deemed to have been validly issued for all purposes, including for the purposes of section 6; (iii) for the purposes of this section, sections 2, 3 and 5 of the Customs Act, as amended by this Act, shall have and shall always be deemed to have effect for all purposes as if the provisions of the Customs Act, as amended by this Act, had been in force at all material times. Explanation. -- For the purposes of this section, it is hereby clarified that any proceeding arising out of any action taken under this section and pending on the date of commencement of this Act shall be disposed of in accordance with the provisions of the Customs Act, as amended by this Act.” 49.