[2024] 7 S.C.R. 525 M/s Al-Can Export Pvt. Ltd. v. Prestige H.M. Polycontainers Ltd. & Ors. 63. From the aforesaid, the following inescapable conclusions are discernible: a. The sale of the Property took place before the expiry of the mandatory 30 days’ notice. This clearly shows that the sale was conducted in breach of the provisions of Section 194 of the Revenue Code. The notice was issued on 19.11.2008 and the auction came to be conducted on 03.12.2008. b. The sale certificate was issued on the same day, i.e., on the date of the auction itself, much before the confirmation of sale by the Additional Collector. This clearly shows that the sale was conducted in breach of the provisions of Section 212 of the Revenue Code. c. The purchaser, that is, the appellant was put in possession of the property much before the sale came to be confirmed i.e. on 15.01.2009 and that too prior to the cheque being realised. This clearly shows that the sale was conducted in breach of the provisions of Sections 212 and 208 respectively of the Revenue Code. d. The undue haste exhibited by the Tahsildar in completing the sale in favour of the appellant speaks for itself. Why did the Tahsildar supress an important fact before the Additional Collector as regards the objections received by him from IFCI? This itself indicates that there was some collusion between the Tahsildar and the appellant. 64. The aforesaid lapses, in our opinion, cannot be termed as irregularity. Once it is evident that the mandatory provisions as stipulated under the rules and regulations are not followed or abridged, any action pursuant to the same could be termed as gross illegality. There is a fine distinction between illegality and irregularity. Whereas the former goes to the root of the matter and renders the action null and void, of no effect whatsoever, the latter does not ipso facto invalidate the action, unless prejudice is caused to the person making a complaint, even if, for the purposes of XXI Rule 90 of the CPC the lapses we have taken note of could be termed as material irregularities going to the root of the matter. 526 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 65. Almost a century back, in Ashutosh v. Behari Lal (1908) 35 Cal 61, drawing the distinction between ‘nullity’ and ‘irregularity’, Mookerjee, J. stated; “No hard and fast line can be drawn before a nullity and irregularity; but this much is clear, that an irregularity is a deviation from a rule of law which does not take away the foundation of authority for the proceeding, or apply to its whole operation, whereas a nullity is a proceeding that is taken without any foundation for it or is so essentially defective as to be of no avail or effect whatever, or is void and incapable of being validated”. 66. Whether a provision falls under one category or other is not of easy discernment, and in the ultimate analysis it depends upon the nature, scope and object of a particular provision.