These include the time taken by the government to provide the PTCL that is required for approval of land conversion, and the delay caused by the authority in evacuation approval. Considering these additional factors, the APTEL has reappreciated the evidence to find that the delay was not attributable to the respondents but to the government [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1045 Bangalore Electricity Supply Company Limited v. Hirehalli Solar Power Project LLP & Others bodies and relevant authorities. We find that there is no error in the APTEL’s approach, and it is reasonable in its reappreciation of evidence. 10.5 Further, the APTEL also correctly took note of the fact that a large number of SPDs have raised similar issues, and the government has responded to the same by requiring DISCOMs to set-up committees to look into these cases. The large number of cases that raise similar grounds and the government’s response show that the delay was not faced by the respondents alone, and hence cannot be entirely blamed on them. The government has itself acknowledged that the land use conversion process is a long and arduous one, which led it to deem conversion for solar power projects under the present scheme. However, due to lapses in the implementation of the deemed conversion, the SPDs were unable to avail the same. The APTEL has rightly appreciated these facts to hold that the respondents acted diligently and with care and caution to secure approvals, and hence their claims cannot be rejected through recourse to Article 8.3(b)(iv). 11. Finally, we have also considered the letter by the appellant dated 02.03.2017 that granted a 6-month extension to the respondents after considering its individual facts and circumstances. This grant of extension must be seen in light of the government’s direction to DISCOMs dated 24.11.2016 to set up 3-member committees to consider each request for extension. This shows that the appellant, after considering the specific case of the respondents, has itself accepted that they are entitled to the benefit of Article 2.5 read with Article 8.3 of the PPA. Even before the KERC, the appellant did not challenge the respondents’ contentions. Therefore, at the appellate stage before the APTEL and this Court, they cannot be permitted to take a contrary stance and raise the plea that the delay was attributable to the respondents and not covered by the force majeure clause or that there was non-compliance with the notice requirement under Article 8.3(b)(i). We therefore reject the contentions of the appellant that force majeure does not apply in this case. 12. In light of the above findings of fact by the APTEL that the delay is not attributable to the respondents and that the force majeure clause is applicable, it rightly held that the extension of time under Article 2.5 1046 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports is warranted and the commissioning of the project on 24.08.2017 is within the extended period of 24 months. Consequently, the APTEL also rightly held that there is no occasion for the imposition of liquidated damages under Articles 2.2 and 2.5.7 or for the reduction of tariff under Article 5.1 of the PPA.