465 Swami Vedvyasanand Ji Maharaj (D) Thr LRs v. Shyam Lal Chauhan & Ors. appellant before the High Court. Objections were filed to the said report by the other party, which is the predecessor-in-interest of the appellant before this Court. The Patna High Court instead of giving a decision based on the report and the objections, passed an on 24.02.2009, allowing both the parties (Swami Satyanand and Swami Triyoganand) to be substituted as LRs to Swami Shivdharmanand. This of the Patna High Court came to be challenged by both the parties (i.e., Swami Triyoganand as well as Swami Satyanand), before this Court. This court vide dated 08.02.2018 had set aside the of the High Court and remanded the matter to Patna High Court, with directions to consider the report of the Trial Court as well as the ‘objections of parties’ and then to substitute one of the two parties as appellant, thereby holding that only one of the two claimants should be substituted as appellant/defendant. 5. Consequently, the High Court passed an dated 30.01.2019 wherein it upheld the findings of the Trial Court on the legal representation and came to the conclusion that Swami Satyanand is the LR of Swami Shivdharmanand. Thus, Swami Satyanand was ed to be substituted as the appellant in the pending Second Appeal. 6. Now the fact of the matter is that when this was passed by the High Court on 30.01.2019, Swami Triyoganand too passed away on 04.12.2018 and an adjournment was also sought to bring the LR of Swami Triyoganand on record, but the substitution could not be done. The Patna High Court went ahead and passed the in favour of Swami Satyanand on the ground that the Trial Court in its report has found Swami Satyanand to be the LR of the appellant- Swami Shivdharmanand, and it is therefore needless to adjourn the matter any further. 7. Subsequently, the appellant before us, i.e., Swami Vedvyasanand Ji Maharaj (hereinafter referred to as Swami Vedvyasanand) moved two applications before the Patna High Court on 22.02.2019. The first was to substitute himself in place of Swami Triyoganand, while the second was to recall the dated 30.01.2019. Both these applications i.e., IA Nos.7 and 8 of 2019 were taken up and dismissed vide the impugned on 19.06.2019. 8. In doing so, the reasons given by the High Court are that Trial Court had conducted an enquiry and concluded that the LR of deceased Swami Shivdharmanand is Swami Satyanand. This report was 466 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports accepted by the High Court and consequently, Swami Satyanand was substituted and the claim of Swami Triyoganand was dismissed. Since the claim of the deceased appellant-Swami Vedvyasanand is based only on the claim of Swami Triyoganand, the High Court perhaps did not find it appropriate or necessary to even consider his substitution application and therefore rejected the substitution application along with the recall application. Aggrieved by the same, Swami Vedvyasanand had filed the present appeal. We must further note here that the matter as it stands today is that even Swami Vedvyasanand has passed away and now Sadhavi Sarojanand, who claims to be the legal heir of Swami Vedvyasanand, is seeking substitution as appellant in the pending second appeal before the High Court.