Both these scenarios are not mutually exclusive and can operate at their respective and appropriate times. The investigating agency, if it feels [2024] 9 S.C.R. 277 Dhanraj Aswani v. Amar S. Mulchandani & Anr. necessary for the purpose of interrogation/investigation can seek remand of the accused whilst he is in custody in connection with the previous case and if such prayer is allowed, the accused can no longer pray for grant of anticipatory bail as then he would be technically in custody in connection with the subsequent case also. Then, he can only seek regular or custody bail. It is also to be considered that if the prosecution has the power to register a case against a person who is in custody in connection with another case how can the accused be deprived of his right to seek protection of his liberty in such case? This would militate against the very principle underlying Article 21 of the Constitution as also Section 438 of the Code. 15. This takes the court to the reasoning adopted by the learned single judge of Rajasthan High Court in the case of Sunil Kallani (supra) that “…..the concerned Police Investigating Agency where FIRs have been registered would be prevented from conducting individual investigation and making recoveries as anticipatory bail once granted would continue to operate without limitation as laid down by the Apex Court in Sushila Aggarwal, (supra)….” With great respect, this Court is unable to persuade itself to agree with the above-quoted reasoning in view of the fact that grant of anticipatory bail does not and cannot grant the accused a licence to avoid investigation or clothe him with any immunity there-from. In fact, sub-section (2) of Section 438 holds the answer to this question as follows: (2) When the High Court or the Court of Session makes a direction under sub-section (1), it may include such conditions in such directions in the light of the facts of the particular case, as it may think fit, including- (i) a condition that the person shall make himself available for interrogation by a police officer as and when required; xxx xxx xxx 278 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports It is needless to mention that an under subsection (1) can be passed only upon hearing the Public Prosecutor. Hence, the prosecution can always insist upon inclusion of such a condition by the court in the grating anticipatory bail. And in so far as ‘recoveries’ are concerned, as already stated, it is always open to the investigating agency to pray for remand of the accused, as long as he is in custody, for such purpose and an granting anticipatory bail has not been passed. […] xxx xxx xxx 17. From a conspectus of the analysis made hereinbefore thus, this Court holds as follows: (i) There is no statutory bar for an accused in custody in connection with a case to pray for grant of anticipatory bail in another case registered against him; (ii) Anticipatory bail, if granted, shall however be effective only if he is arrested in connection with the subsequent case consequent upon his release from custody in the previous case; (iii) The investigating agency, if it feels necessary for the purpose of interrogation/investigation can seek remand of the accused whilst he is in custody in connection with the previous case and in which no granting anticipatory bail has yet been passed.