We shall first direct our attention to the position of law in the United Kingdom followed by the United States of America, Canada, and Australia. I. United Kingdom 128. As we have explored above, the law on parliamentary privileges in UK was developed after a struggle by the House of Commons with the Tudor and Stuart Kings. In The King v. Sir John Elliot,61 at the peak of the confrontation between the Commons and the King in 1629, the King’s Bench prosecuted three members of the House of Commons, Sir John Elliot, Denzel Hollis and Benjamin Valentine, for making seditious speech, disturbing public tranquillity, and violently holding the Speaker in his position to stop the House from being adjourned. The members of Parliament were found guilty, fined and imprisoned. Sir John Elliot was sent to be imprisoned in a tower where his health declined and he ultimately passed away. The report of the trial came to be published in 1667 and was noticed by the House of Commons. The House resolved that the was illegal and against the privileges of Parliament. On a writ of error presented by Denzel Hollis, the House of Lords reversed the of the King’s Bench. 129. With the glorious revolution of 1688, the last of the Stuart Kings, James, was expelled and a new dynasty was instated. The bitter struggle led to a firmly established constitutional monarchy with the House of Commons ultimately claiming both sovereignty and certain privileges which became ancient and undoubted as a result of the persistence of the House and its gradual recognition. Erskine May notes that: “at the commencement of every Parliament it has been the custom for the Speaker, in the name, and on behalf of, the Commons, to lay claim by humble petition to their 61 (1629) 3 St. Tr. 294 [2024] 3 S.C.R. 545 Sita Soren v. Union of India ancient and undoubted rights and privileges; particularly to freedom of speech in debate, freedom from arrest, freedom of access to Her Majesty whenever occasion shall require; and that the most favourable construction should be placed upon all their proceedings.”62 130. The clause stipulating freedom of speech in Parliament and immunity from prosecution flows from the Bill of Rights 1689. The Act was a crucial constitutional initiative by Parliament in England to lay claim to its status by grounding it in statute. The statute was to secure Parliament from royal interference in or through the courts. Article IX of the Bill of Rights stipulates: “That the freedom of speech and debates or proceedings in Parliament ought not to be impeached or questioned in any court or place out of Parliament.” The clause guarantees freedom of speech in Parliament and protects it from being “impeached or questioned” in any court or place out of Parliament. 131. Two aspects of Article IX of the Bill of Rights may be outlined at the outset. First, the privilege under Article IX in UK is not attached to individual members only. It immunizes the freedom of speech and debates or proceedings in Parliament and stipulates that it shall not be ‘impeached or questioned.’ Secondly, Article IX stipulates that the proceedings in Parliament may only be ‘impeached or questioned’ in Parliament.