15. We now endeavour to examine, whether the demand raised by the appellants ought to fail on the ground of delay and/or whether the amount due is still recoverable in the manner ordained by section 24 of the 1910 Act. Imperative for us to complete this exercise 354 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of analysing the legal position is to read the section itself. To the extent relevant, it reads: 24. Discontinuance of supply to consumer neglecting to pay charge. (1) Where any person neglects to pay any charge for energy or any sum, other than a charge for energy, due from him to a licensee in respect of the supply of energy to him, the licensee may, after giving not less than seven clear days’ notice in writing to such person and without prejudice to his right to recover such charge or other sum by suit, cut off the supply and for that purpose cut or disconnect any electric supply-line or other works being the property of the licensee, through which energy may be supplied, and may discontinue the supply until such charger or other sum, together with ally expenses incurred by him in cutting off and reconnecting the supply, are paid, but no longer. (2) *** 16. Section 24 in clear terms authorised a licensee to disconnect supply of energy to any person, if he neglected to pay any charge for energy or sum, other than a charge for energy, due from him. The condition precedent for such disconnection was issuance of a clear seven days’ prior notice. This, in our opinion, is an in terrorem measure which is apart from the right of the licensee to recover the sum due by instituting a suit. Noticeably, section 24 did not refer to any period of limitation as in section 56(2) of the 2003 Act. If the licensee were to opt for institution of a suit, it cannot be contended with any degree of conviction that since section 24 does not prescribe a period of limitation or does not refer to the Limitation Act, 1963,23 a suit can be instituted at any time as per the convenience of the licensee. Electrical energy is a saleable commodity or goods, which we find usually to be sold on credit. That is, the licensee first supplies the energy and a bill is raised by the licensee specifying the date by which the charges are to be paid, whereafter it is the liability of the consumer to pay it. On neglect to pay, the consequences in section 24(1) are attracted. Having regard to such state of affairs, a 23 1963 Act [2024] 11 S.C.R. 355 The Madhya Pradesh Madhya Kshetra Vidyut Vitran Company Limited & Ors. v. Bapuna Alcobrew Private Limited & Anr. suit for recovery of the price of electrical energy supplied, or sold, by the licensee and consumed by the consumer would be governed by Article 15 of the 1963 Act, reading as follows: Part II – Suits relating to Contracts Description of suit Period of Time from which period Limitation begins to run 15.