The sale or transfer of ownership of the enemy property in favour of the transferee is, in fact, on behalf of the enemy who is the owner of the property through the legal and statutory authority of the Custodian which empowers him to alienate the property for good and sound reasons and in the interest of the enemy property irrespective of whether there is any claim made by the enemy or his heirs or descendants. It is for this reason that the original title deeds may remain with the enemy or his family vis-à-vis the enemy property and in lieu of handing over of the title deeds of the property to the vendee or purchaser of the enemy property, a certificate of sale is issued in favour of such person by the Custodian and such certificate of sale is a valid instrument for seeking registration of the property in favour of the transferee. When the registration of the sale is made in favour of the transferee by the Custodian, the latter is acting as a trustee and not as the owner of the enemy property. Therefore, it cannot be accepted that the Custodian is acting as the owner of the property and by that logic the enemy property would become the property of the Union. 17.2 Further, since the Custodian is the trustee of the enemy property, if any monies are due to the enemy or if any has been made with regard to enemy property vested in the [2024] 2 S.C.R. 913 Lucknow Nagar Nigam & Others v. Kohli Brothers Colour Lab. Pvt. Ltd. & Others Custodian which are paid or complied with by any person, as the case may be, and a certificate is issued in that regard by the Custodian, such a person, to whom the certificate is issued, shall not be liable to any suit or other legal proceeding, by reason only of such compliance. This aspect also indicates that payment made to the Custodian is payment to the enemy, enemy subject or enemy firm who accepts the same for and on behalf of the enemy and the payer is thus absolved of all his liabilities and obligations to the enemy. 17.3 In Amir Mohammad Khan, it was observed by this Court that vesting of enemy property in the Custodian is limited to temporary possession, management and control of the property till it becomes incapable of being used by the enemy subject for carrying on business and trading therein. This does not divest the enemy subject of his right, title and interest in the property. The aforesaid two aspects are totally distinct. However, in the said case this Court observed that on the death of the enemy subject the said property would cease to be enemy property if the same is succeeded to by his heir who is a citizen of India. Hence the Custodian could not be permitted to continue with the possession thereof and would be duty bound to release the property to the true owner.