99. The real likelihood of bias test has also been applied by the UK Supreme Court in the case of arbitral bias. In Haliburton Company v. Chubb Bermuda Insurance Ltd.,191 the issue before the UK Supreme Court was whether or not the UK Arbitration Act imposed a legal obligation on arbitrators to disclose facts and circumstances known to the arbitrator which would give rise to justifiable doubts as to their impartiality. Although the UK Arbitration Act does not expressly impose a duty of disclosure on arbitrators or potential arbitrators, the UK Supreme Court read the general duty under Section 33 of the legislation. Section 33 requires an arbitrator to act fairly and impartially in conducting arbitral proceedings.192 It was held that the statutory duty of fairness and impartiality “gives rise to an implied term in the contract between the arbitrator and the parties” to make that disclosure. Hence, it was held a legal obligation to disclose is encompassed within the statutory obligation of fairness unless the parties have expressly or implicitly waived their right to disclosure.193 that judges, like anybody else, have their weaknesses. She will not shrink from the conclusion, if it can be justified objectively, that things that they have said or done or associations that they have formed may make it difficult for them to judge the case before them impartially. 3. Then there is the attribute that the observer is “informed”. It makes the point that, before she takes a balanced approach to any information she is given, she will take the trouble to inform herself on all matters that are relevant. She is the sort of person who takes the trouble to read the text of an article as well as the headlines. She is able to put whatever she has read or seen into its overall social, political or geographical context. She is fair-minded, so she will appreciate that the context forms an important part of the material which she must consider before passing .”] 191 [2020] UKSC 48 [52] 192 UK Arbitration Act, 1996. [It reads: “33. General duty of the tribunal – (1) The tribunal shall – (a) act fairly and impartially as between the parties, giving each party a reasonable opportunity of putting his case and dealing with that of his opponent, and (b) adopt procedures suitable to the circumstances of the particular case, avoiding unnecessary delay or expense, so as to provide a fair means for the resolution of the matters falling to be determined. (2) The tribunal shall comply with that general duty in conducting the arbitral proceedings, in its decisions on matters of procedure and evidence and in the exercise of all other powers conferred on it.”] 193 Haliburton (supra) [78]. [“78. Unless there is a disclosure, the parties may often be unaware of matters which could give rise to justifiable doubts about an arbitrator’s impartiality and entitle them to a remedy from the court under section 24 of the 1996 Act. Those remedies are necessary in the public interest.