the Directorate of Enforcement, Kochi Zonal Unit and I have gone through the facts presented by the Sponsoring Authority as mentioned below:- i. A search was conducted on 19-06-2023 at the residence of Shri Appisseril Kochu Muhammed Shaji @ Payasam Shaji i.e you, Appisseril House, Nadakkal PO, Erattupetta, Kottayam 686121 from where Shri Appisseril Kochu Muhammed Shaji i e. you are operating your foreign currency exchange business. You stated that you were doing trading of fruits to nearby areas. During the course of [2024] 9 S.C.R. 331 Jaseela Shaji v. The Union of India & Ors. search, unaccounted Indian currency amounting to Rs 6,70,100/-, unaccounted Gold in the form of coins and biscuits weighing 110 35 Grams valued at Rs.6,08,028.5/-, unaccounted Silver weighing 1781 Grams in the form of balls and pieces valued to Rs 136246.5/- totally valuing to the tune of Rs 14,14,375/- (Fourteen Lakh Fourteen Thousand Three Hundred Seventy Five Only) were found and seized under the FFMA, 1999. ii. During the course of search, statement of you i.e. Shri Shaji A K was recorded on 20.06.2023 under Section 37 of Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999, wherein Mr. Shaji A.K. i.e. you have admitted that the cash in Indian currencies which was seized from your house are unaccounted and the paper slips were taken from your residence in which you noted the details of forex transactions of your work as a carrier of foreign currencies; that you were working as a commission agent for various Foreign Exchange Racketeers and handed over the illegally collected foreign currencies as well as Indian currencies to various persons inside and outside Kerala mainly at Chennai; that you were collecting foreign currencies from your customers and clients without obtaining KYC details, licenses and no invoices were generated against receipts of foreign currency; that you are doing these illegal activities on behalf of various Foreign Exchange Racketeers; that you were only concerned about the commissions which you received from such illegal activities; that the most part of your income was generated out of these illegal transactions by way of purchase and sale of illegally collected foreign currencies from NRIs and other forex dealers mainly from Suresh Babu at Kottayam, who was also operating the unaccounted foreign currency business. iii. Further, Shri Suresh Babu in his statement recorded on 07.07.2023 also admitted having illegal foreign currency dealings with Shri Shaji A.K. i.e. you. 332 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Furthermore, corroborative evidences in respect of illegal foreign exchange transactions between Shri Suresh Babu and Shri Shaji A.K. i.e. you have been recovered by way of analysis of WhatsApp chat, voice calls and images recovered from Shri Shaji A.K.’s i.e. your mobile which was seized during search. Shri Suresh Babu in his statement recorded on 07.07.2023 has inter alia stated that after fixing the rates through phone call, Shaji i.e. you or the person appointed by you will come to the office and collect FC with Shri Suresh Babu and also give the equivalent INR for the currency; that you also purchase FC kept by him; usually you purchase in month interval and having transaction worth of 30 lakhs for the past 2 years; that within these 2 years you had transactions worth of 2 Crores.