Vs Reserve Bank of India (1992) 2 SC 343 15 (1990) 3 SCC 223 [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1511 Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corp. Ltd. v. Awaz & Ors. 58. The RBI is the prime regulator and the decision-making authority for the economic/financial decisions of the Indian economy, any endeavor by the National Commission or any other Court/Tribunal to decide at the behest of the RBI cannot be termed to be just, fair and equitable. Reliance is placed on: Small Industries Development Bank of India v. SIBCO Investment (P) Ltd.,16 this Hon’ble Court has been pleased to observe: “19. A conjoint reading of the statutory provisions mentioned above, makes it abundantly clear that for “public interest” RBI is empowered to issue any directive to any banking institution, and to prohibit alienation of an NBFC’s property. The term “public interest” has no rigid definition. It has to be understood and interpreted in reference to the context in which it is used. The concept derives its meaning from the statute where it occurs, the transaction involved, the state of society and its needs. [Bihar Public Service Commission v. Hussain Abbas Rizwi (2012) 13 SCC 61 : (2014) 2 SCC (Civ) 131] V. Ramasubramanian, J., speaking for a three-Judge Bench in Internet & Mobile Assn. of India [Internet & Mobile Assn. of India v. RBI (2020) 10 SCC 274] , gave a wide meaning to “public interest”, in context of Section 35-A of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 : (SCC p. 370, para 176) “176. … As we have indicated elsewhere, the power under Section 35-A to issue directions is to be exercised under four contingencies, namely, (i) public interest, (ii) interest of banking policy, (iii) interest of the depositors, and (iv) interest of the banking company. The expression “banking policy” is defined in Section 5(ca) to mean any policy specified by RBI (i) in the interest of the banking system, (ii) in the interest of monetary stability, and (iii) sound economic growth. Public interest permeates all these areas.” 59. In addition, we are also of the considered view, that an endeavour to cap the rate of interest charged by banks and dictating the need 16 (2022) 3 SCC 56 1512 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports for a Benchmark Prime Lending Rate, drawing parallels with other economies across the world, whilst failing to trust the prudence of the Reserve Bank of India which has been entrusted with the fundamental responsibility of regulation of the monetary system and banking business is unwarranted. 60. There is also merit in the submission made by the Appellants, that a direction cannot be issued to the Reserve Bank of India, to enact a particular legislation. It is a settled cannon of law that “when an executive authority, exercises a legislative power by way of subordinate legislation pursuant to the delegated authority of a legislature, such executive authority, cannot be asked to enact a law, which he has been empowered to do under the delegated legislative authority.”17 61. In deciding the validity of any economic legislation or notification having a public objective sought to be attained, it is imperative to test it on the touchstone of reasonableness, and in the absence of any patent arbitrariness, the directions cannot be condemned as being violative of Part III of the Constitution of India.18 In the present context, it is not the case of the Complainants, or pleaded otherwise, that the directions or decisions taken by the statutory authority entrusted to manage the economy, do not pass the test of Wednesbury principle of reasonableness, or are not free from arbitrariness nor affected by bias or actuated by mala fide.