Also, in terms of direction contained in para 100.2, information has to be provided as to whether the Standing is being complied with by Investigating Officers. (ii) In terms of para 100.7, it is directed that the State shall provide details of Special Courts constituted and the necessary steps taken for creation of Additional Special Courts and its stage. 23.1 High Court of Meghalaya -Directions to be complied with: (i) In terms of directions contained in para 100.7, it has come to our attention that the affidavit of the High Court is silent over the constitution of Special Courts in consultation with the State Government. The latest status of the same needs to be duly updated and furnished. (ii) In terms of directions contained in para 100.8 and 100.9, the High Court has identified nearly 42 prisoners who are not able [2024] 2 S.C.R. 1101 Satender Kumar Antil v. Central Bureau of Investigation and Anr. to furnish sureties despite bail. Detailed information and steps taken to alleviate the situation have however not been provided. Therefore, needful be done in this regard. (iii) In terms of direction contained in dated 03.02.2023, the High Court should inform on compliance for inclusion of Siddharth (Supra) and Satender Kumar Antil (Supra) in the curriculum of judicial academy. (iv) To furnish information on whether the directions of Satender Kumar Antil (Supra) is being applied to petitions under Section 438 of CrPC or not. 24. State of Mizoram -Directions to be complied with: (i) In terms of direction contained in para 100.2, it is directed to provide particulars of First Information Reports of cognizable and non-bailable cases in which the mandate of Sections 41, 41-A of CrPC and Arnesh Kumar (Supra) has not been followed, and consequently to provide the details of necessary action that has been taken against erring police officers. Also, in terms of direction contained in para 100.2, information has to be provided as to whether the Standing is being complied with by Investigating Officers. (ii) In terms of para 100.7, it is directed that the State shall provide details of Special Courts constituted and the necessary steps taken for creation of Additional Special Courts and its stage. 24.1 High Court of Gauhati (Refer to Serial No: 4.1) 25. State of Nagaland -Directions to be complied with: (i) In terms of direction contained in para 100.2, it is directed to provide particulars of First Information Reports of cognizable and non-bailable cases in which the mandate of Sections 41, 41-A of CrPC and Arnesh Kumar (Supra) has not been followed, and consequently to provide the details of necessary actions that have been taken against erring police officers. Also, in terms of direction contained in para 100.2, information has to be provided as to whether the Standing is being complied with by Investigating Officers. (ii) In terms of para 100.7, it is directed that the State shall provide details of Special Courts constituted and the 1102 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports necessary steps taken for creation of Additional Special Courts and its stage.