w) Upon receipt of notice from the reference court, the respondents challenged the acquisition proceedings before the High Court on the ground that since no award was passed within a period of two years, the acquisition proceedings stood lapsed. A single judge of the High Court dismissed the writ petition on the ground that the addition of Section 60A(4) specifically barred the respondents from challenging the validity of the acquisition proceedings on the ground that no amount of compensation was tendered and paid in accordance with Section 17(3A) of the Land Acquisition Act. x) The respondents filed an appeal before the division bench of the High Court and the same was allowed vide the impugned dated 29.10.2009. The acquisition proceedings and the notification dated 16.06.1997 issued under Section 52(1) of the RUI Act came to be quashed. 43. As regards the Moongaska land, Ms. Dave submitted as follows: a) The Urban Development Department, Jaipur had issued a notice dated 01.07.1976 under Section 52(2) of the RUI Act duly published in the gazette for the purpose of acquiring the Moongaska land and in response to the said notice, the respondents had appeared before the OSD and had prayed for time to place on record the proof of their ownership and also 1014 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports the representations in respect of the acquisition proceedings. Thereafter, the OSD sent a letter to the State Government for issuance of notification under Section 52(1) of the RUI Act for acquisition of the Moongaska land. The State Government issued a notification under Section 52(1) on 16.06.1977 which was published in the official gazette on 23.06.1977 and showed names of all the owners of the Moongaska land as per the provisions of the RUI Act. b) In terms of sub-sections (1) and (4) of Section 52 of the RUI Act, the land vested absolutely in the State Government free from all encumbrances. The appellant relied on this Court’s in Pratap v. State of Rajasthan, (1996) 3 SCC 1 to substantiate this assertion. c) Further, the respondents used to regularly appear before the OSD in the acquisition proceedings and were adequately heard. The appellant submitted that it gave the respondents adequate opportunity of hearing which is evident from the various representations submitted by the respondents to the OSD. d) The learned senior counsel relied on this Court’s in Special Deputy Collector, Land Acquisition CMDA (supra) to submit that it was not necessary for the acquiring authority to prove actual service of notice of the proposed acquisition on the owners of the land or persons interested therein. The objective of giving notice is to make the owners or interested persons aware about the proposed acquisition and the awareness or knowledge can be inferred by way of implied or constructive notice. Therefore, the purpose of issuing notice under Section 52(2) notice was achieved when all the interested parties appeared before the OSD. The appellant submitted that the reasoning assigned by the High Court that the notice under Section 52(2) of the RUI Act was not properly issued as the respondents were not served individually and no notice was affixed at a conspicuous place in the locality where the property was situated, could be said to be hyper technical and based on an incorrect interpretation of the scope and object of the RUI Act.