In fact the appellant slept over the matter for almost a little over two years even after the pronouncement of the . 37. Thus, the endeavour of the appellant, to approach this Court seeking the relief, as prayed for, is clearly a misadventure, which is liable to be rejected, and the appeal is dismissed.” 31. 8 2023 INSC 619 paras 23-34 466 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports In Bharat Coking Coal Ltd. and others v. Shyam Kishore Singh - (2020) 3 SCC 411, the issue regarding the delay and laches was Civil Appeal No.8072 of 2010 Page 27 of 51 considered by this Court while dismissing the petition filed belatedly, seeking change in the date of birth in the service record. xxx xxx 32. The issue of delay and laches was considered by this Court in Union of India and others vs. N. Murugesan and others, (2022) 2 SCC 25. Therein it was observed that a neglect on the part of a party to do an act which law requires must stand in his way for getting the relief or remedy. The Court laid down two essential factors i.e. first, the length of the delay and second, the developments during the intervening period. Delay in availing the remedy would amount to waiver of such right. Relevant paras 20 to 22 of the above mentioned case are extracted below: “20. The principles governing delay, laches, and acquiescence are overlapping and interconnected on many occasions. However, they have their distinct characters and distinct elements. One can say that delay is the genus to which laches and acquiescence are species. Similarly, laches might be called a genus to a species by name acquiescence. However, there may be a case where acquiescence is involved, but not laches. These principles are common law principles, and perhaps one could identify that these principles find place in various statutes which restrict the period of limitation and create non-consideration of condonation in certain circumstances. They are bound to be applied by Civil Appeal No.8072 of 2010 Page 28 of 51 way of practice requiring prudence of the court than of a strict application of law. The underlying principle governing these concepts would be one of estoppel. The question of prejudice is also an important issue to be taken note of by the court. 21. The word “laches” is derived from the French language meaning “remissness and slackness”. It thus involves unreasonable delay or negligence in pursuing a claim involving an equitable [2024] 1 S.C.R. 467 Delhi Development Authority v. Hello Home Education Society relief while causing prejudice to the other party. It is neglect on the part of a party to do an act which law requires while asserting a right, and therefore, must stand in the way of the party getting relief or remedy. 22. Two essential factors to be seen are the length of the delay and the nature of acts done during the interval. As stated, it would also involve acquiescence on the part of the party approaching the court apart from the change in position in the interregnum.