This is set out to show that the present was not a case where the selected candidates remained unidentified. Even the members of the Committee against whom certain allegations were made were not impleaded by Respondent No.4. The following grievances were set out in the Appeal: a) The selection of candidates in the interview and the process of selection was very clumsy; b) There were a lot of irregularities and instances of corruption committed by the Selection Committee; c) Nepotism was adopted by the President of the Selection Committee and other members by violating the principles of natural justice and misusing their posts; and d) Some instances were set out to indicate how few selected candidates were the relatives of the members of the Selection Committee. [2024] 4 S.C.R. 197 Krishnadatt Awasthy v. State of Madhya Pradesh & Ors. of the Collector: 15. By an of 02.06.1999, the Collector allowed the Appeal even in the absence of the appointed candidates being made parties. He set aside the selection of 14 candidates (including the selection and appointment of the 10 appellants herein). Concerning the marks awarded to the appellant – Archana Mishra, it was, however, held by the Collector that marks for experience were given by the Committee and that she was also interviewed. As such, it was held that it was not possible to consider the determination of marks in the interview, since it was the discretion of the Committee to give the marks. 16. However, on the question of selection of the relatives of the members of the Selection Committee, it was held that members of the Selection Committee have selected their relatives. It was also held that these facts had been admitted by the Janpad Panchayat in its reply. It was held that evidence of relationship was certified by the Sarpanch, whose certificate was attached as evidence by the respondent. It was held that as far as the Committee President was concerned, the Committee President’s husband’s sister, husband’s brother’s wife, nieces (2), nephews (2), sister, sister-in-law’s sister (2) were alleged to have been appointed. It was also found that in the reply to the Chief Executive Officer it has been mentioned that the Standing Committee Member Swamy Singh’s sons and daughter-in-law and nephew; and one son of Bhagwat Prasad had been selected. In all, 14 individuals including the 10 appellants by name, figured in the of the Collector in para 3. 17. The Collector found that under Section 40(c) of the Panchayat Raj Act, any of the Office Bearers shall not cause financial gains to their relatives. It was also found that under Section 100 of the Panchayat Raj Act, acquisition by any member, office bearer or employee of any interest directly or indirectly in any contract or employment was strictly prohibited. 18. The Collector held that there was no necessity to summon the relatives since it was proved that the appointment of the relatives was contrary to the procedure. It was also held that since the ex- officio respondents have admitted about the selection of the relatives, the selection of the 14 candidates, including the 10 appellants, was cancelled and their appointments were terminated.