ANALYSIS, REASONING AND CONCLUSION: 18. Having given our anxious thought to the controversy, we find that the exercise of discretion by the learned Single Judge in the impugned under Section 439(1)2 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (hereinafter referred to as the “Code”), granting bail to the respondent no.1 cannot be sustained. 19. Courts while granting bail are required to consider relevant factors such as nature of the accusation, role ascribed to the accused concerned, possibilities/chances of tampering with the evidence and/ or witnesses, antecedents, flight risk et al. Speaking through Hima Kohli, J., the present coram in Ajwar v Waseem, 2024 SCC OnLine SC 974, apropos relevant parameters for granting bail, observed: “26. While considering as to whether bail ought to be granted in a matter involving a serious criminal offence, the Court must consider relevant factors like the nature of the accusations made against the accused, the manner in which the crime is alleged to have been committed, the gravity of the offence, the role attributed to the accused, the criminal antecedents of the accused, the probability of tampering of the witnesses and repeating the offence, if the accused are released on bail, the likelihood of the accused being unavailable in the event bail is granted, the possibility of obstructing the proceedings and evading the courts of justice and the overall desirability of releasing 2 “439. Special powers of High Court or Court of Session regarding bail.—(1) A High Court or Court of Session may direct— (a) that any person accused of an offence and in custody be released on bail, and if the offence is of the nature specified in sub-section (3) of Section 437, may impose any condition which it considers necessary for the purposes mentioned in that sub-section; (b) that any condition imposed by a Magistrate when releasing any person on bail be set aside or modified: Provided that the High Court or the Court of Session shall, before granting bail to a person who is accused of an offence which is triable exclusively by the Court of Session or which, though not so triable, is punishable with imprisonment for life, give notice of the application for bail to the Public Prosecutor unless it is, for reasons to be recorded in writing, of opinion that it is not practicable to give such notice: Provided further that the High Court or the Court of Session shall, before granting bail to a person who is accused of an offence triable under sub-section (3) of Section 376 or Section 376-AB or Section 376-DA or Section 376-DB of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860), give notice of the application for bail to the Public Prosecutor within a period of fifteen days from the date of receipt of the notice of such application.” [2024] 8 S.C.R. 761 Manik Madhukar Sarve & Ors. v. Vitthal Damuji Meher & Ors. the accused on bail. (Refer: Chaman Lal v. State of U.P. ; 3 Kalyan Chandra Sarkar v. Rajesh Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav (supra); 4 Masroor v. State of Uttar Pradesh; 5 Prasanta Kumar Sarkar v. Ashis Chatterjee; 6 Neeru Yadav v. State of Uttar Pradesh; 7 Anil Kumar Yadav v. State (NCT of Delhi); 8 Mahipal v. Rajesh Kumar @ Polia (supra).9 27.