instrument. [2024] 2 S.C.R. 572 Digital Supreme Court Reports BNotwithsStanding anything contained in this section, the Central Government may authorise any scheduled bank to issue electoral bond. Explanation. — For the purposes of this sub-section, “electroal bond” means a bond issued by any scheduled bank under the scheme as may be notified by the Central Government. Section 29-C of the Representation of the People Act 1951 Prior to Amendment by the Finance Post Amendment by Section 137 of Act 2017 the Finance Act 2017 29-C. Declaration of donation received 29-C. Declaration of donation received by the political parties. — by the political parties. — (1) The treasurer of the political party (1) The treasurer of the political party or any other person authorised by the or any other person authorised by the political party in this behalf shall, in political party in this behalf shall, in each financial year, prepare a report each financial year, prepare a report in respect of the following, namely:— in respect of the following, namely:— (a) the contribution in excess of twenty (a) the contribution in excess of twenty thousand rupees received by such thousand rupees received by such political party from any person in that political party from any person in that financial year; financial year; (b) the contribution in excess of twenty (b) the contribution in excess of twenty thousand rupees received by such thousand rupees received by such political party from companies other political party from companies other than Government companies in that than Government companies in that financial year. financial year. (2) The report under sub-section Provided that nothing contained in (1) shall be in such form as may be this sub-section shall apply to the prescribed. contributions received by way of an electoral bond. (3) The report for a financial year under sub-section (1) shall be submitted by Explanation.— For the purposes of the treasurer of a political party or this sub-section, “electoral bond” any other person authorised by the means a bond referred to in the political party in this behalf before Explanation to sub-section (3) of the due date for furnishing a return Section 31 of the Reserve Bank of of its income of that financial year India Act, 1934 (2 of 1934). under Section 139 of the Income (2) The report under sub-section (1) shall Tax, 1961 (43 of 1961) to the Election be in such form as may be prescribed. Commission. [2024] 2 S.C.R. 573 Association for Democratic Reforms & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. बWhere the treasurer of ाany political (3) The report for a financial year under party or any other person authorised sub-section (1) shall be submitted by by the political party in this behalf fails the treasurer of a political party or to submit a report under sub-section any other person authorised by the (3), then, notwithstanding anything political party in this behalf before contained in the Income Tax Act, 1961 the due date for furnishing a return (43 of 1961), such political party shall of its income of that financial year not be entitled to any tax relief under under Section 139 of the Income Tax, that Act.