Digital Supreme Court Reports h) To also represent the inmates in courts in some cases, if appointed by the Legal Service Institution but not otherwise; i) To prioritize and focus on personal interactions with the inmates in the PLAC during the visit and then document and prepare the petitions; j) To assist the UTRC by coordinating with the inmates and the courts on cases eligible for release; k) To follow the directions given under NALSA SOP for representing persons in custody; l) To bring into notice of DLSA about the concern of inmates in respect of conditions in jail; m) Updating information on digital platform of legal aid and legal aid e-prison.” The duties of the PLVs are as under: "a) To establish/ manage Legal Aid Clinics inside prisons, as prescribed; b) To take steps towards identification of prison inmates who are in need of legal assistance. This would involve reaching out to all prisoners whether beneficiary of legal aid or not, especially the new entrants; c) To seek permission from the prison authorities to visit the wards/enclosures of prisoners to ascertain that no one remains unrepresented; d) To fill out the legal aid application form and promptly send it to the concerned DLSA/TLSC & also ensure that the prisoners interact with the Jail Visiting Lawyer on his next visit to prison; e) To coordinate and assist the Jail Visiting Lawyers in providing legal advice and aid; f) To give updates on the proceedings in a case to the inmates; g) To counsel inmates and explain any legal provision pertaining to their case. Where there are doubts, then refer the case to the Jail Visiting Lawyer; [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1783 Suhas Chakma v. Union of India & Ors. h) To receive legal aid lawyer appointment letters, replies from legal service institutions and other authorities, maintain record and give copies to the concerned prisoner; i) To submit reports to the DLSA about the Undertrial Review Committee on cases eligible under section 436/436A Cr.P.C. ; j) To keep track of non-production of any inmate in the Court as per the date given and inform the Secretary, DLSA/SDLSC or TLCS; k) To assist the prison inmate in filing any complaint or grievances relating to their stay in prison; and l) To send reminders/letters to the corresponding Legal Services Authority to seek information regarding status of case, name and contact details of the assigned legal aid lawyer.” 14. Under Para 15 of the NALSA SOP-2022, the procedure for ensuring smooth filing of petitions of the convicts in High Courts and the Supreme Court has been outlined as follows: "a) As soon as the rejecting bail or an of conviction is pronounced by the Court (Magistrate Court, Sessions Court or High Court), a prisoner shall be informed by the PLAC regarding the right to bail/ appeal/review/revision in the High Court/Supreme Court and the process of filing the same. b) Steps must be taken promptly through the PLAC to apply for appointment of lawyer by the High Court Legal Services Committee (HCLSC) or the Supreme Court Legal Services Committee (SCLSC), as the case may be.