Sub-section (20A) of Section 2 of the WLP Act defines “National Board”, which reads thus : “(20A) “National Board” means the National Board for Wild Life constituted under Section 5A;” 16. Sub-section (21) of Section 2 of the WLP Act defines “National Park”, which reads thus : “(21) “National Park” means an area declared, whether under Section 35 or Section 38, or deemed, under sub- section (3) of Section 66, to be declared, as a National Park;” 17. Sub-section (24A) of Section 2 of the WLP Act defines “protected area”, which reads thus : “(24A) “protected area” means a National Park, a sanctuary, a conservation reserve or a community reserve notified under Sections 18, 35, 36-A and 36-C of the Act;” 18. Sub-section (26) of Section 2 of the WLP Act defines “sanctuary”, which reads thus : “(26) “sanctuary” means an area declared as a sanctuary by notification under the provisions of Chapter IV of this Act and shall also include a deemed sanctuary under sub-section (4) of Section 66;” 19. Sub-Section (36) of Section 2 of the WLP Act defines “wild animal”, which reads thus : “(36) “wild animal” means any animal specified in Schedule I or Schedule II and found wild in nature;” 214 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 20. Sub-section (39) of Section 2 of the WLP Act defines “zoo”, which reads thus : “(39) “zoo” means an establishment, whether stationary or mobile, where captive animals are kept for exhibiting to the public or ex-situ conservation and includes a circus and off- exhibit facilities such as rescue centres and conservation breeding centres, but does not include an establishment of a licensed dealer in captive animals.” 21. Chapter IV of the WLP Act deals with “protected areas”. Section 18 provides for “Declaration of sanctuary”, which reads thus : “18. Declaration of sanctuary.—(1) The State Government may, by notification, declare its intention to constitute any area other than an area comprised within any reserve forest or the territorial waters as a sanctuary if it considers that such area is of adequate ecological, faunal, floral, geomorphological, natural or zoological significance, for the purpose of protecting, propagating or developing wild life or its environment. (2) The notification referred to in sub-section (1) shall specify, as nearly as possible, the situation and limits of such area. Explanation.—For the purposes of this section, it shall be sufficient to describe the area by roads, rivers, ridges or other well-known or readily intelligible boundaries.” 22. It will be relevant to refer to Section 33 of the WLP Act, which deals with “Control of sanctuaries”. It reads thus : “33. Control of sanctuaries.—The Chief Wild Life Warden shall be the authority who shall control, manage and protect all sanctuaries in accordance with such management plans for the sanctuary approved by him as per the guidelines issued by the Central Government and in case the sanctuary also falls under the Scheduled Areas or areas where the Scheduled Tribes and Other Traditional Forest Dwellers (Recognition of Forest Rights) Act, 2006 is applicable, in accordance with the management plan for such sanctuary prepared after due consultation with [2024] 3 S.C.R.