11. Before we part with this matter, however, we would like to invite the Central Government to consider seriously whether it is necessary to allow Section 87-B to operate prospectively for all time. The agreements made with the Rulers of Indian States may, no doubt, have to be accepted and the assurances given to them may have to be observed. But considered broadly in the light of the basic principle of the equality before law, it seems somewhat odd that Section 87-B should continue to operate for all time. For past dealings and transactions, protection may justifiably be given to Rulers of former Indian States; but the Central Government may examine the question as to whether for transactions subsequent to 26th of January, 1950, this protection need or should be continued. If under the Constitution all citizens are equal, it may be desirable to confine the operation of Section 87-B to past transactions and not to perpetuate the anomaly of the [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1223 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 distinction between the rest of the citizens and Rulers of former Indian States. With the passage of time, the validity of historical considerations on which Section 87-B is founded will wear out and the continuance of the said section in the Code of Civil Procedure may later be open to serious challenge.” (Emphasis supplied) 194. In H.H. Shri Swamiji of Shri Amar Mutt v. Commr., Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Deptt., reported in (1979) 4 SCC 642, a five-Judge Bench of this Court was called upon to determine the constitutionality of applicability of the Madras Hindu Religious Charitable Endowments Act to the South Kanara district. The South Kanara district, which was formerly a part of the State of Madras, became a part of the State of Mysore as a result of the reorganisation of states on 01.11.1956 and by reason of Section 119 of the States Reorganisation Act, the Madras Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Act continued to apply to South Kanara notwithstanding the fact that it was no longer a part of the State of Madras. The appellants urged that the application of the Madras Act to only one district of the State of Karnataka offended Article 14. The Court held that even after passage of 23 years, no serious attempts were made to remove the inequality between the South Kanara district and other districts of the State of Karnataka. The relevant observations read as under: “31. But that is how the matter stands today. Twenty-three years have gone by since the States Reorganisation Act was passed but unhappily, no serious effort has been made by the State Legislature to introduce any legislation — apart from two abortive attempts in 1963 and 1977 — to remove the inequality between the temples and Mutts situated in the South Kanara District and those situated in other areas of Karnataka. Inequality is so clearly writ large on the face of the impugned statute in its application to the district of South Kanara only, that it is perilously near the periphery of unconstitutionality.