The respondent, on the other hand, contends that at the time of executing the settlement agreement, the CoC was not formed and in such situations, Rule 11 of the NCLAT Rules may be invoked to allow the settlement. In view of the detailed discussion in Part D of this judgement, we find considerable force in the submissions of the appellant on this point. 78. In paragraph 63 of this judgement, we identified the four stages at which a procedure for the withdrawal of CIRP or settlement of claims is contemplated in the existing legal framework. The situation before the NCLAT in the present case fell within serial number (ii), that is, when the application of a creditor has been 1850 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports admitted and CIRP has been initiated, however, the CoC has not been formed. When settlement was sought by the first respondent before the NCLAT, the Section 9 petition had been admitted and the Section 7 petition had also been disposed of on that basis. However, admittedly, on this date, i.e. 31 July 2024, the CoC had not been constituted and the NCLAT subsequently stayed the formation of the CoC. 79. In such cases, the legal framework mandates that an (i) application for withdrawal be moved; (ii) the application has to be moved through the IRP; and (iii) it be placed before the NCLT for approval. None of these requirements were met in the present case. First and foremost, there was no formal application instituted to seek the withdrawal of the CIRP. The settlement agreement was taken on record and approved by the NCLAT based on the submissions and assurances of the counsel before it and the affidavits/undertakings filed by the parties. Further, the first respondent, who is a former director of the Corporate Debtor, did not move the application through the IRP and instead approached the NCLAT directly. Finally, the request to approve the settlement was moved before the NCLAT during appellate proceedings, instead of being placed before the NCLT. Despite these grave deviations, the NCLAT still proceeded with approving the settlement and setting aside the CIRP by invoking its inherent power under Rule 11 of the NCLAT Rules. 80. We are of the view that recourse to Rule 11 of the NCLAT Rules was not warranted in the present circumstances. As noted above, ‘inherent powers’ cannot be used to subvert legal provisions, which exhaustively provide for a procedure. To permit the NCLAT to circumvent this detailed procedure by invoking its inherent powers under Rule 11 would run contrary to the carefully crafted procedure for withdrawal. In the Impugned Judgement, the NCLAT does not provide any reasons for deviating from this procedure or the urgency to approve the settlement without following the procedure. The correct course of action by the NCLAT would have been to stay the constitution of the CoC and direct the parties to follow the course of action in Section 12A read with Regulation 30A of the CIRP Regulations 2016.