Therefore, appellant cannot found a cause of action on any breach of the law but only on the breach of the contract. As already indicated, Statute 151 does not lay down any procedure for removal of a teacher to be incorporated in the contract. So, Clause 5 of the contract can, in no event, have even a statutory flavour and for its breach, the appellant’s remedy lay elsewhere. 13. Besides, in that the third exception to the general rule that no writ will lie to quash an terminating a contract of service, albeit illegally, as stated in S.R. Tewari v. District Board (1964) 3 SCR 55 : AIR 1964 SC 1680], might apply, it is necessary that the must be the of a statutory body acting in breach of a mandatory obligation imposed by a statute. The college, or the Managing Committee in question, is not a statutory body and so the argument of Mr Setalvad that the case in hand will fall under the third exception cannot be accepted. The contention of counsel that this Court has sub silentio sanctioned the issue of a writ under Article 226 to quash an terminating services of a teacher passed by a college similarly situate in P.R.K. Jodh, and, therefore, the fact that the college or the Managing Committee was not a statutory body was no hindrance to the High Court issuing the writ prayed for by the appellant has no merit as this Court expressly stated in the that no such contention was raised in the High Court and so it cannot be allowed to be raised in this Court.” [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2225 Army Welfare Education Society New Delhi v. Sunil Kumar Sharma & Ors. Etc. 52. In the case on hand, the facts are similar. Rule 26(1) of the Affiliation Bye-laws, framed by CBSE, provides that each school affiliated with the Board shall frame Service Rules. Sub-rule (2) of it provides that a service contract will be entered with each employee as per the provision in the Education Act of the State/Union Territory, or as given in Appendix III, if not obligatory as per the State Education Act. These rules also provide procedures for appointments, probation, confirmation, recruitment, attendance representations, grant of leave, code of conduct, disciplinary procedure, penalties, etc. The model form of contract of service, to be executed by an employee, given in Appendix III, lays down that the service, under this agreement, will be liable to disciplinary action in accordance with the Rules and Regulations framed by the school from time to time. Only in case where the post is abolished or an employee intends to resign, Rule 31 of the Affiliation Bye-laws of the Board will apply. It may be noted that the above Bye-laws do not provide for any particular procedure for dismissal or removal of a teacher for being incorporated in the contract. Nor does the model form of contract given in Appendix III lay down any particular procedure for that purpose. On the contrary, the disciplinary action is to be taken in accordance with the Rules and Regulations framed by the school from time to time.