He mainly contended that the case made out by the prosecution falls short of the proof needed in a case which is based entirely on circumstantial evidence. Learned counsel contended that with the available evidence it would be unsafe to sustain the conviction and pleaded for outright acquittal. The specific contentions of the learned counsel challenging certain individual circumstances have been dealt with hereinbelow while tabulating the circumstances. Alternatively, learned counsel pleaded that the sentence of 30 years without remission is excessive and prayed that the sentence may be appropriately tailored to meet the ends of justice. 11. Shri Jayanth Muth Raj, learned senior counsel, for the State vehemently rebutted the arguments of the counsel for the appellant and contended that the trial Court and the High Court have correctly arrived at the conclusion of guilt. Learned senior counsel contended that the case actually warranted death penalty but the High Court has modified it to a sentence of imprisonment for 30 years without remission for the offence under Section 302. According to the learned senior counsel, the sentence did not deserve any further modification. Discussion: 12. We have carefully considered the submissions of the learned counsel for the respective parties and have perused the material on record, including the relevant original trial Court records. The circumstances that unerringly point to the guilt of the appellant as it emerges from the deposition of the witnesses and the duly proved exhibits can be summarized as under: (i) There was the incident on 03.02.2005 when the accused allegedly trespassed into the house and had thrown a koduval (curved sword) at deceased Latha. This highlights the friction [2024] 3 S.C.R. 923 Navas @ Mulanavas v. State of Kerala between the accused and deceased Latha. Ext. P9 - P11 complaint of 03.02.2005 has been marked by the prosecution. It also forms an important piece of evidence to establish motive. ii) PW-3, Raman, an auto driver, deposed that on the night of 03.11.2005, the accused engaged his services to go to Orumanayur. The accused asked him to stop at a place called Muthenmavu (which is the place where the house of the deceased was situated) and he paid him Rs.70/-. We have seen the original deposition and it clearly records that it was at 10.30 PM on the night of 03.11.2005 that the accused engaged the services of PW-3 at Guruvayur auto stand to reach the area where the house of the deceased was located. Mr. Renjith B. Marar, learned counsel, has challenged the evidence of PW-3 on the ground that no test identification parade was held and the identification was for the first time at the police station. This submission need not detain the court as nothing much turns on it. The presence of the accused even otherwise, at the scene of occurrence has been spoken to by PW-1, PW- 2, PW-4, PW-6, PW-23, PW-30 and PW-32, as has been discussed hereinbelow. iii) PW-1 Thankamani has clearly spoken about the fact that, on 03.11.2005, when she left the house after her work at 7.30 p.m. all the deceased were hale and hearty.