Section 376 of the CPC 1859 provided a larger playing field to the court while dealing with an application to review. However, under Section 378 of the CPC 1859, a finality was sought to be given to the of the court. Section 623 of the CPC 1877 “623. Application for review of judgement: Any person considering himself aggrieved (a) by a decree or from which an appeal is hereby allowed, but from which no appeal has been preferred; (b) by a decree or from which no appeal is hereby allowed; or (c) by a judgement on a reference from a Court of Small Causes, And who from the discovery of new and important matter or evidence which, after the exercise of due diligence, was not within his knowledge or could not be produced by him at the time when the decree was passed or made, or on account of some mistake or error apparent on the face of the record, or for any other sufficient reason, desires to obtain a review of the decree passed or made against him, may apply for a review of judgement to the Court which passed the decree or made the , or to the Court, if any, to which the business of the former Court has been transferred. A party who is not appealing from a decree may apply for a review of judgement notwithstanding the pendency of [2024] 5 S.C.R. 99 The State of Telangana & Ors. v. Mohd. Abdul Qasim (Died) Per LRs. an appeal by some other party, except when the ground of such appeal is common to the applicant and the appellant, or when, being a respondent, he can present to the appellate Court the case on which he applies for the review.” (emphasis supplied) 17. Thus, taking note of the existence of a larger power to review, the legislature brought forth a change by adding the words “after the exercise of due diligence”. Additionally, the words “on account of some mistake or error apparent on the face of the record” were also added. This conscious inclusion clearly restricts the power of review. Section 114 of the CPC 1908 “114. Review.—Subject as aforesaid, any person considering himself aggrieved,— (a) by a decree or from which an appeal is allowed by this Code, but from which no appeal has been preferred, (b) by a decree or from which no appeal is allowed by this Code, or (c) by a decision on a reference from a Court of Small Causes, may apply for a review of to the Court which passed the decree or made the , and the Court may make such thereon as it thinks fit.” XLVII Rule 1 of the CPC 1908 “1. Application for review of .—(1) Any person considering himself aggrieved— (a) by a decree or from which an appeal is allowed, but from which no appeal has been preferred, (b) by a decree or from which no appeal is allowed, or (c) by a decision on a reference from a Court of Small Causes, 100 [2024] 5 S.C.R.