Instead of obligating the State to make any special provisions for the development of such language, script, or culture, the ambit of the term ‘conserve’ is to prohibit state intervention in these aspects.194 This intent to proscribe interference, though not apparent, has been explicitly emphasized in the discussions of the Constituent Assembly and has consistently been underscored by this Court in various decisions. 290. A dialogue between K. Santhanam and Hasrat Mohani during the Assembly debates notably encapsulates this dimension of non- intervention. It suggests that the objective of Article 29(1) was envisioned to forestall any potential harm to cultures by fascist regimes, should such a scenario arise.195 K. Santhanam, in particular, had stated in this regard as follows: "Sir, you will remember that throughout Europe, after the first World War, all that the minorities wanted was the right to have their own schools, and to conserve their own cultures which the Fascist and the Nazis refused them. In fact, they did not want even the State schools. They did not want State aid, or State assistance. They simply wanted that they should be allowed to pursue their own customs and to follow their own cultures and to establish and conduct their own schools. Therefore, I do not think it is right on the part of any minority to depreciate the rights given in article 23(1).” [Emphasis supplied] 291. Likewise, Dr. B.R. Ambedkar gave his perspective on the matter, echoing the sentiment that the State should refrain from intervening and imposing any culture, whether local or otherwise, upon a community. Dr. B.R. Ambedkar further underscored that the provision does not levy any burden or obligation upon the State.196 In this regard, he articulated the following: 194 Govind Ballabh Pant, Constituent Assembly Debates, Volume 7, 08.12.1948 195 K. Santhanam, Constituent Assembly Debates, Volume 7, 08.12.1948. 196 Dr. B.R. Ambedkar, supra note 185. 1118 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports "I think another thing which has to be borne in mind in reading article 23 is that it does not impose any obligation or burden upon the State. It does not say that, when for instance the Madras people come to Bombay, the Bombay Government shall be required by law to finance any project of giving education either in Tamil language or in Andhra language or any other language. There is no burden cast upon the State. The only limitation that is imposed by article 23 is that if there is a cultural minority which wants to preserve its language, its script and its culture, the State shall not by law impose upon it any other culture which may be either local or otherwise […]" "[…] The original article as it stood in the Fundamental Rights only cast a sort of duty upon the State that the State shall protect their culture, their script and their language. The original article had not given any Fundamental Right to these various communities. It only imposed the duty and added a clause that while the State may have the right to impose limitations upon these rights of language, culture and script, the State shall not make any law which may be called oppressive, not that the State had no right to make a law affecting these matters, but that the law shall not be oppressive.