Adv., Arun K. Sinha, Rakesh Singh, Ms. Anjali Rajput, Sumit Sinha, Rohan Goel, Abhinav Mutyalwar, Vijay Raj Singh Chouhan, Advs. for the Appellant. 166 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Satyajit A. Desai, Adv. (Amicus Curiae) Mrs. Aishwarya Bhati, A.S.G., Mukesh Kumar Maroria, Ms. Ameya Vikrama Thanvi, Mrs. Chitrangda Rastaravara, Santosh Kumar, Ms. Sweksha, Ms. Poornina Singh, Chinmay Mehta, Advs. for the Respondent. / of the Supreme Court Sudhanshu Dhulia, J. 1. The appellant before this Court has challenged the of the High Court (dated 18.05.2011) which has dismissed his appeal while upholding his conviction and sentence by the Trial Court for offences under Sections 302 and 307 of the Indian Penal Code, for which he has been sentenced for life imprisonment and 7 years of rigorous imprisonment respectively. 2. We have heard the learned counsel for the appellant as well as for the State at length. 3. As the facts of the case would reveal the present case is of a brazen murder, committed inside a Police Station in Delhi. The prosecution case is that the appellant, who was posted as a police guard at Mayur Vihar Police Station, Delhi, executed this murder inside the police station, while he was on duty! 4. The deceased was married to the appellant’s first cousin and was also his neighbour. The prosecution case is that the deceased had an illicit relationship with the wife of the appellant. There are more than one witnesses to the fact that the deceased and the appellant were last seen together in conversation with each other inside the police station even minutes before these witnesses saw the appellant killing the deceased with his official 9 m.m. carbine. 5. An FIR was lodged at Police Station Mayur Vihar, New Delhi on 30.06.2002 at 2:30 pm, under Sections 302/307 IPC on the narration of PW-2 who was posted at the Police Station, Mayur Vihar, New Delhi as Head Constable at the relevant point of time. PW-2 states that on the date of the incident she reached the Police Station at around 11.30 am and saw the appellant talking to the deceased. She further states that at around 11.40 am, she [2024] 7 S.C.R. 167 Surender Singh v. State (NCT of Delhi) heard sounds of fire and then saw the deceased running towards the Duty Officer’s room; he was bleeding with his hands held up in the air. The appellant was seen firing at the deceased from his Carbine. When the firing stopped, the deceased was seen lying outside the duty officer’s room, bleeding profusely. The appellant was apprehended along with his carbine by the police staff, and PW-2 who was also injured in the firing was taken to the LBS Hospital where she received medical aid, and later lodged the FIR. 6. The police after its investigation filed chargesheet and the case was committed to Sessions, where charges were framed under Sections 302/307 of IPC against the present appellant. The prosecution examined as many as 27 witnesses. The accused, after giving his statement under Section 313 CrPC, had also examined a witness as DW-1.