P.M. Bhargava, who was appointed to meet GEAC by the of this Court dated 30.04.2009, the Government of India, on its own, imposed a complete ban on Bt brinjal. 9.3 Later, while hearing the Additional Solicitor General for Union of India as well as the learned counsel for the petitioners, this Court found that there was a consensus on the constitution of an Expert Committee on certain terms of reference as suggested in the Minutes of the Ministry’s meeting dated 15.03.2011 as there was a joint prayer for its constitution. 9.4 In these writ petitions, vide dated 10.05.2012, this Court had noted the prayers of the petitioners seeking issuance of [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1977 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. directions or to the respondent, namely the Union of India, inter alia, not to allow the release of GMOs into the environment by way of import, manufacture, use or any other manner. An ancillary prayer was for the prescription of a protocol to which all the GMOs release would be subjected to. In addition, a direction was sought to the Union of India to frame relevant Rules in this regard and to ensure its implementation was sought. Constitution of the Technical Expert Committee (TEC): 10. In view of the above plea, this Court, after several dates of hearing, vide dated 10.05.2012 constituted a Technical Expert Committee (TEC), the constitution of which was as follows: “1. Prof. V.L. Chopra, Former Member, Planning Commission and Former Member, Science & Advisory Committee to the PMO, Recipient of Padma Bhushan. 2. Dr. Imran Siddiqui, Group Leader, Centre for Cellular & Molecular Biology (CCMB). 3. Prof. P.S. Ramakrishnan, Emeritus Prof. JNU. 4. Dr. P.C. Chauhan, D. Phil (Sci). 5. Prof. P.C. Kesavan, Distinguished Fellow, MS SRF (Research Foundation), Emeritus Professor, CSD, IGNOU, New Delhi. 6. Dr. B. Sivakumar, Former Director, National Institute of Nutrition (NIN), Hyderabad.” 10.1 The Terms of Reference of the TEC were as follows: “A. To review and recommend the nature of sequencing of risk assessment (environment and health safety) studies that need to be done for all GM crops before they are released into the environment. B. To recommend the sequencing of these tests in to specify the point at which environmental release though Open Field Trials can be permitted. C. To advise on whether a proper evaluation of the genetically engineered crop/plants is scientifically 1978 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports tenable in the greenhouse conditions and whether it is possible to replicate the conditions for testing under different agro ecological regions and seasons in greenhouse? D. To advise on whether specific conditions imposed by the regulatory agencies for Open Field Trials are adequate. If not, recommend what additional measures/safeguards are required to prevent potential risks to the environment. E. Examine the feasibility of prescribing validated protocols and active testing for contamination at a level that would preclude any escaped material from causing an adverse effect on the environment. F. To advise on whether institutions/laboratories in India have the state-of-art testing facilities and professional expertise to conduct various biosafety tests and recommend mechanisms to strengthen the same.