[2024] 7 S.C.R. 503 M/s Al-Can Export Pvt. Ltd. v. Prestige H.M. Polycontainers Ltd. & Ors. S. 209. Purchaser may apply to set aside sale under certain circumstances.—Except in a case, where land has been sold for arrears which form a charge on the land, the purchaser may, at any time within thirty days from the date of sale, apply to the Collector to set aside the sale on the ground that the defaulter had no saleable interest in the property sold; and the Collector shall, after due enquiry, pass such on such application as he deems fit. S. 210. Application to set aside sale by person owning to holding interest in property.—(1) Where immoveable property has been sold under this code, any person either owning such property or holding an interest therein by virtue of a title acquired before such sale may, at any time within thirty days from the date of sale, apply to the Collector to have the sale set aside on his depositing— (a) for payment to the purchaser a sum equal to five per cent of the purchase money; (b) for payment on account of the arrear, the amounts specified in the proclamation of sale as that for the recovery of which the sale was ed, less any amount which may have been paid since the date of sale on that account ; and (c) the cost of the sale : [Provided that, such application may be made by any such person belonging to a Scheduled Tribe within one hundred and eighty days from the date of sale.] (2) If such deposit is made within thirty days, 2[or as the case may be, one hundred and eighty days] from the date of sale, the Collector shall pass an setting aside the sale. xxx xxx xxx S. 247. Appeal and appellate authorities.—(1) In the absence of any express provisions of the Code, or of any law for the time being in force to the contrary, an appeal shall lie from any decision or passed by a revenue or survey officer specified in column 1 of the Schedule E under this Code or any other law for the time being in 504 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports force to the officer specified in column 2 of that Schedule whether or not such decision or may itself have been passed on appeal from the decision of of the officer specified in column 1 of the said Schedule : Provided that, in no case the number of appeals shall exceed two. (2) When on account of promotion of change of designation an appeal against any decision or lies under this section to the same officer who has passed the decision or appealed against, the appeal shall lie to such other officer competent to decide the appeal to whom it may be transferred under the provisions of this Code. xxx xxx xxx S. 250. Periods within which appeals must be brought.—No appeal shall be brought after the expiration of sixty days if the decision or complained of have been passed by an officer inferior in rank to a Collector or a Superintendent of Land Records in their respective departments ; nor after the expiration of ninety days in any other case.