[Paras 8-12] List of Acts Uttar Pradesh Imposition of Ceiling on Land Holdings Act, 1960; Uttar Pradesh Zamindari Abolition and Land Reforms Act, 1950; Uttar Pradesh Imposition of Ceiling on Land Holdings (Amendment) Act, 1972. List of Keywords Declaration of land to be surplus; Family settlement; Separate share of family member duly demarcated; Holding of only one tenure holder; Fresh litigation; First round of litigation; Prescribed Authority; Additional Commissioner; Abuse of the process of law; 710 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports Res Judicata; Land reform; Redistribution of surplus land; Partition before cut-off date; Suit instituted after cut-off date; Deemed not to be partition; No notice to joint holders. Case Arising From CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 14603 of 2024 From the and dated 21.02.2022 of the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad, Lucknow Bench in WRITC No. 3000001 of 1995 Appearances for Parties Tanmaya Agarwal, Wrick Chatterjee, Mrs. Aditi Agarwal, Advs. for the Appellants. Satpal Singh, Ms. Netasha Thukral, Govinda Chaudhary, V. S. Dubey, Advs. for the Respondents. / of the Supreme Court Sudhanshu Dhulia, J. 1. Leave granted. 2. Vide The Uttar Pradesh Imposition of Ceiling on Land Holdings Act, 1960 in the State of Uttar Pradesh the land over and above a certain limit was to be declared surplus and was then to vest with the State. The Uttar Pradesh Imposition of Ceiling on Land Holdings Act, 1960 as well as the earlier Uttar Pradesh Zamindari Abolition and Land Reforms Act, 1950 were enacted in the State of U.P. immediately after the independence of the Country with this purpose. We must not forget that one of the main commitments of the leaders during the freedom struggle was that the wide disparity and inequality in distribution of land will be changed for the better and abolition of Zamindari and placing a ceiling on land, would be a step towards this goal towards the redistribution of land, based on the principles of equity and justice. Since land was in List II i.e., the State List under the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution of India, these legislations regarding land reforms were to be made [2024] 12 S.C.R. 711 State of Uttar Pradesh & Anr. v. Suresh Chandra Tewari & Ors. by the States, and this was done not just in U.P. but throughout the country. Consequently, different States brought about the legislations in their Sates, all aimed at land reforms and redistribution of land where one of the principal elements was putting a surplus on the land holding, the declaration of the surplus land and redistribution of this surplus land to those who were landless and marginalised farmers. The Uttar Pradesh Imposition of Ceiling on Land Holdings Act, 1960 (hereinafter referred to as the ‘Act of 1960’) and the purpose of its enactment has to be seen in this context. 3. Out of the various provisions in the 1960 Act, Section 9 and Section 10 are important here for our purposes, which are as under :- “9. General notice to tenure-holders holding land in excess of ceiling area for submission of statement in respect thereof- — [(1)] As soon as may be, after the date of enforcement of this Act, the Prescribed Authority shall, by general notice, published in the Official Gazette, call upon every tenure-holder holding land in excess of the ceiling area applicable to him on the date of enforcement of this act, to submit to him within 30 days of the date of publication of the notice, a statement in respect of all his holdings in such form and giving such particulars as may be prescribed.