523 of 2003. After the charges were framed, the accused pleaded not guilty and sought trial. 9. At the trial, the prosecution examined 18 witnesses being PW-1 to PW-18, and marked 37 documents and 10 Material Objects (MO’s). After the closure of evidence, the accused were examined under Section 313 CrPC with reference to the incriminating material found against them in the evidence of the prosecution witnesses, and they denied the same. There are no defence witnesses. 10. The Trial Court, by its elaborate dated 24.02.2005, found all four accused guilty for the murder of the deceased and convicted them under Section 302 read with Section 34 of the IPC. Accordingly, they were sentenced to undergo imprisonment for life and to pay a fine of Rs. 500 each, in default, to undergo simple imprisonment of one month. All the accused appealed to the High Court. 11. For the completeness of narration, we may indicate that the High Court initially acquitted all the accused by its dated 21.06.2007, but in appeal to this Court, their conviction and sentences were set-aside, and the criminal appeal was remanded back to the High Court for fresh consideration. It is in this background that the impugned came to be passed by the High Court. 12. After remand, the High Court confirmed the of the Trial Court and dismissed the criminal appeals. The Special Leave Petition filed by the accused was admitted on 01.08.2022 and this is how we have heard Shri Gaurav Agrawal, learned counsel for the appellants and Shri Krishan Kumar Singh learned counsel for the State and Shri Sirajudeen, learned senior counsel for the respondent No. 2. 13. Findings of the Trial Court: The Trial Court had examined the credibility of the Prosecution witness in great detail. According to the Trial Court, PWs 1, 3, 4, 6, 7 and 8 were eyewitnesses to the incident and their testimonies were consistent. Among them, PW-6’s 6 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports testimony was a clinching piece of evidence as he was privy to the incident from the very beginning. He was subjected to intense cross- examination with respect to his residence and other details about the incident. Except for minor variations, the Trial Court found his testimony unshaken, being consistent and natural. The Trial Court found the testimonies PW-1, PW-3, PW-4, PW-7, PW-8 corroborating the incident of stopping an auto, dragging the deceased out, and subsequently assaulting the deceased with various weapons. 14. Collectively, the witnesses reiterated that A-1 stopped the auto- rickshaw and pulled the deceased out and A-2 attacking the deceased’s hands with a sword. As they reached A-4’s house, A-4 took the sword from A-2 and struck the deceased on his head. A-4 also inflicted injuries by a knife. The common account about A-3 is that he hit the deceased on the head with a stone. Accused No. 1 continued the attack and hit the deceased with an axe. Largely, these witnesses recounted a consistent narrative of the attack, identifying the weapons used and the roles of each accused.