On 13 December 2022, the Constitution Bench directed the counsel to jointly formulate issues which arise for the consideration of the Bench. On 10 January 2023, the Constitution Bench framed the following primary issue for determination: “Whether Section 6A of the Citizenship Act suffers from any constitutional infirmity.” 11. The issue of the constitutional validity of Section 6A of the Citizenship Act is the only issue which falls for the consideration of this Bench. B. Issues 12. The challenge to the constitutional validity of Section 6A of the Citizenship Act gives rise to the following issues: a. Whether the grant of citizenship to migrants from Bangladesh to Assam was within the legislative competence of Parliament under Article 11 of the Constitution; b. Whether Section 6A of the Citizenship Act adopts unreasonable cut-off dates and singles out the State of Assam thereby violating Article 14 of the Constitution ; 1248 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports c. Whether Section 6A of the Citizenship Act can be regarded to be violative of Article 355 on the ground that the provision does not curb undocumented immigration which amounts to ‘external aggression’; d. Whether Section 6A of the Citizenship Act is violative of Article 29(1) of the Constitution on the ground that the Assamese cultural identity is lost as a direct consequence of granting citizenship to migrants from Bangladesh residing in Assam; e. Whether Section 6A(3) of the Citizenship Act is unconstitutional on the ground of temporal unreasonableness; and f. Whether Section 6A(2) of the Citizenship Act is unconstitutional on the ground that it neither provides a method for implementation nor empowers the executive to implement the provisions. C. Analysis i. Legislative competence of Parliament to enact Section 6A 13. The petitioners submitted that Parliament did not have the competence to enact Section 6A because: (a) the legislative field with respect to granting citizenship to migrants from Bangladesh to India is occupied by Articles 6 and 7; and (b) any alteration of the cut-off date prescribed by Articles 6 and 7 for migrants from Bangladesh could only be through a constitutional amendment and not by parliamentary legislation. The respondents submitted that even if it is accepted that Section 6A amends Articles 6 and 7, the amendment is permissible in view of Article 11. a. The scope of the constitutional provisions on Indian citizenship 14. Section 6A confers citizenship to migrants of Indian origin from the specific territory of Bangladesh. The legal regime on citizenship, in particular the provisions governing citizenship status to migrants from East and West Pakistan in the aftermath of the partition of India must be laid bare to understand the context in which Section 6A was inserted in the Citizenship Act. 15. The Constitution of India upon its adoption guaranteed fundamental rights to the citizens of India.14 It is but natural that the provision on 14 Articles 14, 20, 21, 22,25,27, 28 guarantees rights to persons. Articles 15,16, 19, and 29(2) guarantees rights to citizens. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1249 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 who would be citizens of the newly independent nation produced one of the most contentious of discussions in the Constituent Assembly.15 On 30 May 1947, Mr BN Rau, the Constitutional Advisor prepared the Memorandum on the Union Constitution and Draft Clauses.