It appears that Delhi Race Club (1940) Ltd. and the ‘Association’ are not separate entity. 18. On the face of record, it appears that originally complainant was supplying oats to the ‘Company’. In the year 1995, the complainant was directed to raise invoices in favour of the ‘Association’. The Company continued to receive supply of Oats made by the complainant even after 1995, whereas invoices were raised in favour of the ‘Association’. This direction of the company goes to show that there was some mala fide intention on the part of the Company. The complainant bona fide continued to make supply under the direction of the Company. The invoices were raised by the complainant in similar manner since 1995 to 2017 and thereafter. It appears that there was an oral direction to raise invoices in favour of ‘Association’ made by the Company, which indicates mala fide of the Company. 19. After hearing the learned counsel for the parties and after perusing the impugned , this Court is of the opinion that impugned has been passed on the basis of facts and circumstances of the case after considering the evidence on record. There is no legal infirmity in the impugned s, which may call for any interference by this Court in exercise of powers conferred under Section 482 Cr.P.C.” 5. Thus, according to the High Court, the intention on the part of the company was prima facie mala fide and the payment of Rs. 9,11,434/- could be said to be intentionally withheld. SCOPE OF INQUIRY UNDER SECTION 202 OF THE CRPC 6. It is by now well settled that at the stage of issuing process it is not the duty of the Court to find out as to whether the accused will be ultimately convicted or acquitted. The object of consideration of the merits of the case at this stage could only be to determine whether there are sufficient grounds for proceeding further or not. Mere [2024] 8 S.C.R. 683 Delhi Race Club (1940) Ltd. & Ors. v. State of Uttar Pradesh & Anr. existence of some grounds which would be material in deciding whether the accused should be convicted or acquitted does not generally indicate that the case must necessarily fail. On the other hand, such grounds may indicate the need for proceeding further in to discover the truth after a full and proper investigation. If, however, a bare perusal of a complaint or the evidence led in support of it shows essential ingredients of the offences alleged are absent or that the dispute is only of a civil nature or that there are such patent absurdities in evidence produced that it would be a waste of time to proceed further, then of course, the complaint is liable to be dismissed at that stage only. What the Magistrate has to determine at the stage of issue of process is not the correctness or the probability or improbability of individual items of evidence on disputable grounds, but the existence or otherwise of a prima facie case on the assumption that what is stated can be true unless the prosecution allegations are so fantastic that they cannot reasonably be held to be true.