In governance, the Court notes that both the Supreme Council and the Governing Body of the college are predominantly constituted of Christians, with 10 out of 13 members belonging to this religious group - as per paragraphs 37-38. 143. As for St. Stephens [supra], both sides have placed considerable reliance on the aforesaid paragraphs to further their respective cases and see the facts surrounding the establishment of AMU from a particular perspective. In any event, from the said analyses in St. Stephens [supra], it is clear that the question of establishment is not dependent on a singular factor, rather is a culmination of various aspects surrounding the facts leading up to the establishment of the institution and the form of the institution itself. The factors that the Court found relevant in St. Stephens [supra] form jurisprudential basis of the factual enquiry that ought to be carried out by the Court in such matters. However, the said enquiry cannot be straight-jacketed in all cases and the Court ought to suitably modulate the approach suiting the needs of the institution in question and the nature of the institution. In simple words, a school or a college or a University may require a significant difference in approach while adjudicating the question of “establishment” by the minority community. 1978 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 144. The in A.P. Christians Medical Educational Society v. Government of Andhra Pradesh, (1986) 2 SCC 667 is another specific case wherein the Court interrogated the essentials of an institution claiming to be a minority institution. The Court guarded against false schemes in to claim protection under Article 30. The relevant paragraphs of the said judgement are quoted as under: “A brazen and bizarre exploitation of the naive and foolish, eager and ready-to-be-duped, aspirants for admission to professional collegiate courses, behind the smoke-screen of the right of the minorities to establish and administer educational institutions of their choice — is what this case is about. A society styling itself as the ‘Andhra Pradesh Christian Medical Educational Society’ was registered on August 31, 1984. The first of the objectives mentioned in the memorandum of association of the society was, “to establish, manage and maintain educational and other institutions and impart education and training at all stages, primary, secondary, collegiate, post- graduate and doctoral, as a Christian Minorities’ Educational Institution”. Another object was “to promote, establish, manage and maintain Medical colleges, Engineering colleges. Pharmacy colleges. Commerce, Literature, Arts and Sciences and Management colleges and colleges in other subjects and to promote allied activities for diffusion of useful knowledge and training.” Other objects were also mentioned in the memorandum of association. All that is necessary to mention here is that none of the objects, apart from the first extracted object, had anything to do with any minority. Even the first mentioned object did not specify or elucidate what was meant by the statement that education and training at all stages was proposed to be imparted in the institutions of that society “as Christian Minorities’ Educational Institution”.