It was submitted that only because the appellant had previously been issued some appreciation letters, future unsatisfactory conduct cannot be saved basis her past conduct. 26. Learned counsel further pointed out that initially the appellant was placed at Serial No.5 in the Provisional Merit List issued on 09.12.2011 which was because of non-submission of proper Certificate of Experience alongside her application for the post of APC. Later, when the Certificate of Experience was submitted, the Merit List was revised and rectified on 12.09.2012, whereupon she was placed at Serial No.1. 27. Apropos the appellant’s allegations against Respondents No.4 & 5 to the effect that they were interested for the appointment of one Dheeraj Singh Dhakad, learned counsel submitted that in the Provisional Merit List, he was below the appellant, which would not have been the case had he been favoured. It is also submitted that had there been any malafide intent towards the appellant, Respondents No.4 & 5 would have rejected her application on the basis of her submitting an expired Certificate of Experience, but they chose to give time to her to submit a proper Certificate, which would demonstrate that the said respondents did not harbour any bias against her. 28. Learned counsel summed up by stating that the impugned was well-considered and needed no interference under Article 136 of the Constitution. ANALYSIS, REASONING AND CONCLUSION: 29. Having bestowed our anxious consideration to the lis, we find that the interference of the Division Bench with the dated 20.06.2017 of the learned Single Judge, has to be interdicted at our hands. [2024] 8 S.C.R. 911 Swati Priyadarshini v. The State of Madhya Pradesh & Ors. 30. A bird’s eye views reveals thus. The appellant topped the revised Merit List, leading to her appointment as an APC. While serving as such, complaint(s) against her, in brief, were that she was not performing her duties, primarily on two counts – (i) not punctual in attending to her duties, and; (ii) not correctly reported with regard to the events in the hostel. As against these, the appellant’s response, via her replies to the SCNs, is that she, inter alia, frankly admits to being late on occasion, but to compensate for her late-coming, she used to sit till late evening in the office for completion of work. On this count, the Respondents cannot be faulted. It is no justification for the appellant to contend that she was late, but worked late/ overtime such that the work did not suffer. However, as borne out from the record, with regard to the hostel, charge was given to her for only 5/6 days. As such, in our view, it cannot be said that within such a short period, the appellant, without fully understanding the attendant issues, could have straightaway given any opinion/report on the hostel. Be that as it may, this case turns on our findings infra. 31. Clause 4 of the RGPSM’s General Service Conditions under the heading “Resignation/Termination” provides as below: “Persons working on contract can be terminated with one month notice if found inefficient.