Whether royalty, which is paid by a lessee to a lessor i.e. the State while exercising mineral rights is a limitation imposed on State’s power to impose any other impost, cess or tax on exercise of mineral rights while undertaking a mining operation and extracting minerals by a lessee, is the precise question to be answered in the context of the constitutional framework, the parliamentary law, namely, the MMDR Act, 1957 and the s of this Court. Scheme of the MMDR Act, 1957: 10. Having analysed the relevant constitutional Entries which have a bearing on the controversy, it is necessary to refer to the scheme of and salient provisions of the MMDR Act, 1957 which has been enacted by Parliament pursuant to Entry 54 - List I. This is apparent on a reading of Section 2 of the said Act which reads as under: “2. Declaration as to the expediency of Union control,— It is hereby declared that it is expedient in the public interest that the Union should take under its control the regulation of mines and the development of minerals to the extent hereinafter provided.” The expression in Entry 54 - List I “to the extent to which” is also significant inasmuch as Section 2 of the MMDR Act, 1957 also uses the expression “to the extent hereinafter provided”. The two expressions have the same content and are consistent with each other. 10.1 The MMDR Act, 1957 which is a successor to MMRD Act, 1948, can be briefly considered by referring to various provisions of the Act. The Preamble of the MMDR Act, 1957 states that the Act is to provide “for the development and regulation of mines and minerals under the control of the Union”. Earlier, it read as “for regulation of mines and the development of minerals” but by Section 2 (Act 38 of 1999), the above amendment was made. 10.2 The relevant provisions of the MMDR Act, 1957 could be adverted to at this stage. The expression ‘minerals’ in Section 3(a)(d) includes all minerals except mineral oils. Section 3(e) defines ‘minor minerals’ to mean building stones, gravel, 1762 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports ordinary clay, ordinary sand other than sand used for prescribed purposes, and any other mineral which the Central Government may, by notification in the official gazette, declare to be a minor mineral. ‘Notified minerals’ is defined under Section 3(ea) to mean any mineral specified in the Fourth Schedule, such as, bauxite, iron ore, limestone, manganese ore. Further, ‘mineral concession’ is defined in Section 3(ae) of the said Act to mean either a reconnaissance permit, prospecting licence, mining lease, composite licence or a combination of any of these and the expression “concession” shall be construed accordingly. Section 3(c) defines “mining lease” to mean a lease granted for the purpose of undertaking mining operations and includes a sub-lease granted for such purpose. Section 3(d) defines “mining operations” to mean any operation undertaken for the purpose of winning any mineral. Section 3(h) defines “prospecting operations” to mean any operations undertaken for the purpose of exploring, locating or proving mineral deposits.