1667 Union of India & Ors. v. Rajeev Bansal that no tax which is legitimately due from an assessee should remain unrecovered they must also at the same time not act in a manner as might indicate that scales are weighted against the assessee. We are wholly unable to subscribe to the view that unless those authorities exercise the power in a manner most beneficial to the revenue and consequently most adverse to the assessee, they should be deemed not to have exercised it in a proper and judicious manner.” 27. Since the assessing officers perform a quasi-judicial function during reassessment, the powers vested in them are regulated by law.50 The process of reassessment is generally preceded by administrative proceedings, which require the assessing officer to obtain the sanction of the specified authorities.51 The taxing statutes generally lay down the procedure for issuance of notice to the proposed assessee in respect of income or property proposed to be taxed. It also prescribes the authority and procedure for hearing any objections to the liability for taxation.52 ii. Assessment as an issue of jurisdiction 28. Jurisdiction is defined as the power of a court, tribunal, or authority to hear and determine a cause or exercise any judicial power concerning such cause.53 The Revenue officers must have requisite jurisdiction to perform their functions and responsibilities following the provisions of the Income Tax Act. Under the Income Tax Act 1922,54 Section 34 allowed an Income Tax Officer to reassess income that escaped assessment for a relevant assessment year. Section 34 provided that a reassessment notice could not be issued beyond the prescribed time limit (which was generally within eight years from the end of the 50 Supdt. of Taxes v. Onkarmal Nathmal Trust (1976) 1 SCC 766 [37]; 51 S Narayanappa v. CIT, 1966 SCC OnLine SC 173 [4] [“4. […] The proceedings for assessment or re- assessment under Section 34(1)(a) of the Income Tax Act start with the issue of a notice and it is only after the service of the notice that the assessee, whose income in sought to be assessed or re-assessed, becomes a party to those proceedings. The earlier stage of the proceeding for recording the reasons of the Income Tax Officer and for obtaining the sanction of the Commissioner are administrative in character and are not quasi-judicial.] 52 K T Moopil Nair v. State of Kerala, 1960 SCC OnLine SC 7 [9] 53 In Re: Interplay between Arbitration Agreements under the Arbitration and Conciliation Act 1996 and the Indian Stamp Act 1899, 2023 INSC 1066 [125] 54 “Income Tax Act 1922” 1668 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports relevant assessment year). Thus,Section 34 conferred jurisdiction on Income Tax Officers to reopen an assessment subject to the issuance of notice within the prescribed time limits.55 In Ahmedabad Manufacturing and Calico Printing Co. Ltd. v. S G Mehta, ITO,56 Justice M Hidayatullah (as the learned Chief Justice then was), writing for himself and Justice Raghubar Dayal, observed: “It must be remembered that if the Income-tax Act prescribes a period during which the tax due in any particular assessment year may be assessed, then on the expiry of that period the department cannot make an assessment.