The new university at Saugor owes its existence to a donation of Rs. 2,000,000 from Sir Hari Singh Gaur which is regarded as a first instalment.” [Emphasis supplied] 165. Hence, even when the legal existence—i.e., the authority to grant degrees—comes from an external body or legislature, it is an important but not the sole facet that constitutes a University. Further, the legislative object and intent of such a Statute would be a determinative articleshow/61762699.cms. 93 Indian Statutory Commission, supra note 90, pp. 121. 94 Prof. Yashpal, supra note 4, para 20-22. 95 Dr. Vishwanath Pandey, supra note 91. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1837 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. factor in ascertaining the nature of the University. If it were solely responsible for the creation of the university, the statute might assume a size larger than the University. Instead, since the concept of a university encompasses numerous other factors beyond legal sanction, these factors also contribute to its existence, and the statute is one of them. Consequently, the presence of this external factor does not render the entire existence attributable to the Legislature. 166. It seems to us that when the UGC Act or colonial laws mandated universities to be created by statutes, those who intended a university, including the minority community, were not absolved from complying with other relevant factors so as to bring the university into being. We therefore do not find any conflict between the amended provisions of the NCMEI Act, UGC Act, and the holding in Prof. Yashpal (supra). Each holds its own independent and distinct field and operates validly within that sphere. The minority community thus can establish a university under Article 30,96 provided it fulfils the norms of the UGC—i.e., gets legal sanction to create the university through a statute. To the extent that Azeez Basha (supra) holds to the contrary, it deserves to be modified and clarified. 167. Having held so,we will now analyse the third category of institutes, which are ‘created by’ the legislature itself. I.1.2.3. Created by the statute 168. The previous section showed that an institution would not owe its existence to the legislature itself, provided that other facets apart from legal operationalization are fulfilled by another body. However, it may also happen that the Government itself may fulfil the other aspects by perhaps ideating the institution, providing funds and infrastructure for its set-up, making its charter documents, and finally operationalizing it through different bodies. In case the leading role in the different factors instantiated in paragraph 141 of this judgement is played by the Legislature itself or through the Executive Government, then it will be said to have brought the institution into existence and not any private individual or community. 169. The distinction between the second and third categories of institutions (i.e., those recognized by statute versus those created by statute) is thus one of degree and a matter of fact. While both types of 96 Uttar Pradesh Private Universities Act, 2019, Section 2(p). 1838 [2024] 11 S.C.R.