Digital Supreme Court Reports association of persons unless the Court has previously given notice to such person, members of the organisation or association of persons, as the case may be, and has offered him or them an opportunity to show cause against the issue of the injunction: Provided that in the case of any urgency, the Court shall have the power to issue an interim injunction without giving any notice under this section. (7) An injunction issued under sub-section (1) may be confirmed or vacated after giving notice and hearing the party against whom the injunction was issued. (8) The Court may either on its own motion or on the application of any person aggrieved, rescind or alter an injunction issued under sub-section (1). (9) Where an application is received under sub-section (1), the Court shall afford the applicant an early opportunity of appearing before it either in person or by an advocate and if the Court, after hearing the applicant rejects the application wholly or in part, it shall record in writing its reasons for so doing. (10) Whoever knowing that an injunction has been issued under sub-section (1) against him disobeys such injunction shall be punishable with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to two years or with fine which may extend to one lakh rupees or with both: Provided that no woman shall be punishable with imprisonment.” 67. A Judicial Magistrate of the first class or a Metropolitan Magistrate, as the case may be, is empowered to issue an injunction if they are satisfied that a child marriage has been arranged or is about to be solemnised.95 The judge may issue such an based on information that may be received as a complaint or otherwise. The person who complains to the judge must have personal knowledge 95 Section 13(1), PCMA. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1561 Society for Enlightenment and Voluntary Action & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. or reason to believe that a child marriage is likely to occur.96 In case the complainant is a non-governmental organisation, they must have reasonable information, relating to the likelihood of the taking place of or solemnisation of a child marriage or child marriages. The injunction may be issued against any person or association of persons.97 However, the court must issue notice to such person, members of the organisation or association of persons, as the case may be, and offer them an opportunity to show cause against the issuance of an injunction.98 The court may eschew from this requirement only if it is expedient or urgent for the court to act, in which case an interim injunction may be issued. 68. A Judicial Magistrate of the first class or a Metropolitan Magistrate, as the case may be, is also empowered to take suo moto cognizance of the commission of a child marriage based on a reliable report or information.99 The PCMA also gives the judge associated powers in addition to the power to issue an injunction.