Paragraph 14 only prescribes a timeline for the submission of particulars on contributions when the window for Electoral Bond contributions was open in 2019. In view of the interim direction of this Court, the ECI must have collected particulars of contributions made to political parties through Electoral Bonds. 219. In view of our discussion above, the following directions are issued: a. The issuing bank shall herewith stop the issuance of Electoral Bonds; SBI shall submit details of the Electoral Bonds purchased since the interim of this Court dated 12 April 2019 till date to the ECI. The details shall include the date of purchase of each Electoral Bond, the name of the purchaser of the bond and the denomination of the Electoral Bond purchased; SBI shall submit the details of political parties which have received contributions through Electoral Bonds since the interim of this Court dated 12 April 2019 till date to the ECI. SBI must disclose details of each Electoral Bond encashed by political parties which shall include the date of encashment and the denomination of the Electoral Bond; SBI shall submit the above information to the ECI within three weeks from the date of this , that is, by 6 March 2024; The ECI shall publish the information shared by the SBI on its official website within one week of the receipt of the information, that is, by 13 March 2024; and Electoral Bonds which are within the validity period of fifteen days but that which have not been encashed by the political party yet shall be returned by the political party or the purchaser depending on who is in possession of the bond to the issuing bank. The issuing bank, upon the return of the valid bond, shall refund the amount to the purchaser’s account. 220. Writ petitions are disposed of in terms of the above . 221. Pending applications(s), if any, stand disposed of. [2024] 2 S.C.R. 559 Association for Democratic Reforms & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. ANNEXURE I Section 29C, Representation of the People Act 1951 Prior to Amendment by the Finance Upon Amendment by Section 137 Act 2017 of the Finance Act, 2017 29C. Declaration of donation Section 29C. Declaration of donation received by the political parties. - received by the political parties. — (1) The treasurer of a political (1) The treasurer of a political party or any other person party or any other person authorized by the political authorized by the political party in this behalf shall, in party in this behalf shall, in each financial year, prepare each financial year, prepare a report in respect of the a report in respect of the following, namely; following, namely: (a) thecontribution in excess (a) the contribution in excess of twenty thousand of twenty thousand rupees received by such rupees received by such political party from any political party from any person in that financial person in that financial year; year; the contribution in excess the contribution in excess of twenty thousand of twenty thousand rupees received by rupees received by such political party from such political party from companies other than companies other than Government companies Government companies in that financial year.