Supreme Court Reports the balance arbitrators from the panel or outside the panel and also indicate the presiding arbitrator. 135. Such an arbitrator-appointment clause is likely to give rise to justifiable doubts as to the independence and impartiality of arbitrators for two reasons: (i) the contractor is restricted to choosing its arbitrator from the panel of four arbitrators nominated by the party who is a disputant; and (ii) the contractor’s choice is further constrained because it is made subject to the decision of the General Manager who will choose one among the two persons suggested by the party. Since the contractor has to select its arbitrator from a curated panel, the arbitration clause does not allow the contractor equal participation in the appointment of their arbitrator. Moreover, the clause allows the General Manager to appoint the balance arbitrators from either the panel or outside the panel. Thus, the process of appointing the arbitrators is unequal because the General Manager can go beyond the panel of four potential arbitrators, while the contractor is bound by the names enlisted in the panel. 136. In a three-member tribunal, the independence and impartiality of a third or presiding arbitrator are prerequisites to the integrity of the arbitral proceedings. In CORE (supra), the arbitration clause allowed the General Manager to unilaterally nominate the presiding officer out of the panel of three arbitrators. The clause does not countenance any participation from the contractor in the process of appointing or nominating the presiding officer. Thus, the process of appointing and nominating the presiding officer is unequal and prejudiced in favour of the Railways. The fact that the General Manager is nominating the presiding officer gives rise to a reasonable doubt about the independence and impartiality of the entire arbitration proceedings. 137. Given the above discussion, it needs reiteration that the Arbitration Act does not prohibit PSUs from empanelling potential arbitrators. However, an arbitration clause cannot mandate the other party to select its arbitrator from the panel curated by PSUs. The PSUs can give a choice to the other party to select its arbitrators from the curated list provided the other party expressly waives the applicability of the nemo judex rule. G. Public-private contracts and public policy 138. An arbitration is a creature of contract between the parties. An arbitration agreement must meet the criteria laid down under Section [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2261 Central Organisation for Railway Electrification v. M/s ECI SPIC SMO MCML (JV) A Joint Venture Company 7, in addition to satisfying the principles of contract law prescribed under the Contract Act to be considered valid.247 According to the Contract Act, a promisor makes a proposal when they signify to the promisee their willingness to do or abstain from doing anything, to obtain the assent of the promisee to such act or abstinence. The proposal is said to be accepted when the promisee signifies their assent. A proposal becomes a promise upon acceptance. Every promise and every set of promises, forming the consideration248 for each other, is an agreement.