It would always depend upon several relevant considerations: —What is the nature of the infirmity or error on which a plea for a review and revision of the earlier view is based? On the earlier occasion, did some patent aspects of the question remain unnoticed, or was the attention of the Court not drawn to any relevant and material statutory provision, or was any previous decision of this Court bearing on the point not noticed? Is the Court hearing such plea fairly unanimous that there is such an error in the earlier view? What would be the impact of the error on the general administration of law or on public good? Has the earlier decision been followed on subsequent occasions either by this Court or by the High Courts? And, would the reversal of the earlier decision lead to public inconvenience, hardship or mischief? These and other relevant considerations must be carefully borne in mind whenever this Court is called upon to exercise its jurisdiction to review and revise its earlier decisions. These considerations become still more significant when the earlier decision happens to be a 498 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports unanimous decision of a Bench of five learned Judges of this Court.” (emphasis supplied) 39. Similarly, Krishena Kumar (supra) was a case about pension payable to government employees. There, too, although the Court did not find compelling reasons to reconsider its previous decisions in that factual context, it recognized that the Court does have the power to do so in to “remedy continued injustice” or due to “considerations of public policy”. 40. The context in the above cases cited by the appellant is not comparable with the present case. As set out in the of reference and in the course of this , the decision in PV Narasimha Rao (supra) has wide ramifications on public interest, probity in public life and the functioning of parliamentary democracy. The majority contains several apparent errors inter alia in its interpretation of the text of Article 105; its conceptualization of the scope and purpose of parliamentary privilege and its approach to international jurisprudence all of which have resulted in a paradoxical outcome. The present case is one where there is an imminent threat of this Court allowing an error to be perpetuated if the decision in PV Narasimha Rao (supra) is not reconsidered. 41. Finally, the appellant also relies on the of this Court in Ajit Mohan v. Legislative Assembly, National Capital Territory of Delhi26, where this Court observed that there are “divergent views” amongst constitutional experts on “whether full play must be given to the powers, privileges, and immunities of legislative bodies, as originally defined in the Constitution, or (whether it) is to be restricted.” However, it has been urged, that this Court refused to express its views on the matter on the ground that such an opinion must be left to the Parliament. The appellant submits that similarly, in this case, the Court must refrain from taking a conclusive view and leave the issue for the determination of Parliament.