Parliamentary privileges had struck root in India on legislators demanding parity with the UK House of Commons with reasonable adjustments to account for Indian needs. This was because legislators in India felt that their discharge of legislative functions would be adversely affected in the absence of these privileges. Prominent among the demands of legislators were the power to punish for contempt of the House, supremacy of the Chair in matters of the House, and freedom of speech and freedom from arrest to allow members to partake in the proceedings and discharge their functions. 59. At no point were these privileges demanded as a blanket immunity from criminal law. Even in the face of colonial reluctance, the demand for parliamentary privileges in India was always tied to the relationship which it bore to the functions which the Indian legislators sought to discharge. 60. This background prevailed when the Constituent Assembly was deciding the fate of Articles 85 and 169 of the draft Constitution which have since become Articles 105 and 194 of the Constitution. Our founding parents intended the Constitution to be a ‘modernizing’ force. Parliamentary form of democracy was the first level of this modernizing influence envisaged by the framers of the Constitution.37 The Constitution was therefore born in an environment of idealism and a strength of purpose born of the struggle for independence. The framers intended to have a Constitution which would light the way for a modern India.38 61. When the Constituent Assembly convened to discuss Article 85 of the draft Constitution, Mr HV Kamath moved an amendment to remove the reference to the House of Commons in the UK and replace it with the Dominion Legislature in India immediately before the commencement of the Constitution. Opposing this amendment Mr Shibban Lal Saxena said, “So far as I know there are no privileges which we enjoy and if he wants the complete nullification of all our 37 Granville Austin, The Indian Constitution: Cornerstone of a Nation, OUP (1972), ix 38 Granville Austin, The Indian Constitution: Cornerstone of a Nation, OUP (1972), xiii 508 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports privileges he is welcome to have his amendment adopted.”39 The members of the Constituent Assembly were therefore keenly aware that their privileges under the colonial rule were not ‘ancient and undoubted’ like the House of Commons in the UK but a statutory grant made by successive enactments and assertion by legislatures. F. Purport of parliamentary privilege in India I. Functional analysis 62. Article 105 which is located in Part V Chapter II of the Constitution stipulates the powers, privileges, and immunities of Parliament, its members and committees. An analogous provision concerning State Legislatures is in Article 194 of the Constitution. Article 105 reads as follows: “105. Powers, privileges, etc., of the Houses of Parliament and of the members and committees thereof. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Constitution and to the rules and standing s regulating the procedure of Parliament, there shall be freedom of speech in Parliament.