In other words, the suitability of a candidate has to be assessed on the basis of the track record, as reflected in the ACRs; (ii) In the above backdrop, the Resolution of the Full Court dated 30 November 2021 which prescribed the requirement of obtaining 50% as a condition of eligibility in the suitability test and in the viva voce separately, is an evident act of discrimination against candidates seeking promotions in the 65% quota, compared to those seeking in-service promotions in the 10% quota. There is no requirement of obtaining the minimum cut-off individually in the suitability test and in the viva voce when appointments are made of inservice candidates through the limited competitive examination. There is no rational justification for the High Court to lay down a minimum cut-off of the nature which has been prescribed by the resolution dated 30 November 2021 5 [2002] 2 SCR 712 : (2002) 4 SCC 247 1150 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports only for candidates seeking promotion in the 65% quota while there is no such requirement in the 10% quota for the limited competitive examination; (iii) The element of discrimination is evident from the fact that no such cut-off as a condition of eligibility is prescribed for candidates who seek direct recruitment as Additional District and Sessions Judges; and (iv) The imposition of a cut-off as a condition of eligibility prescribing a minimum of 50% of marks in the viva voce was disclosed, for the first time, in a response to a query under the Right to Information Act 2005 on 28 March 2023. Consequently, candidates were completely in the dark about the imposition of such a requirement as a condition of eligibility before the disclosure. Consequently, the High Court has acted with arbitrariness in recommending the appointments. 24. Mr Shyam Divan, senior counsel, submitted that: (i) Candidates drawn for promotion in the 65% promotion quota and 10% from the in-service candidates appearing for a limited competitive examination are from the same pool. Consequently, a minimum cut-off cannot be logically justified for the 65% promotion quota when there is no such norm for the 10%, which is filled up on the basis of the limited competitive examination; (ii) Rule 19 empowers the State Government to make regulations not inconsistent with the Rules to provide for all matters for which provision is necessary or expedient for the purpose of giving effect to the Rules. In the present case, there was a longstanding practice, following the earlier resolution of the Full Court dated 29 January 2013 of requiring a cut-off of 50% overall on the basis of the combined marks which were obtained in the written test and in the interview. A departure from a practice which had held the field for such a long period of time could have only been made either by amending the Rules or by the exercise of power under Rule 19 by the State Government to make regulations; (iii) The principles of fairness and good governance which have been laid down in the of the Constitution Bench of [2024] 2 S.C.R.