Although the Contract Act does not define the expression “public policy”, it has generally been defined as a principle of judicial legislation or interpretation founded on the current needs of the community.251 Section 23 codified the common law position that “all contracts and agreements which have as their object anything contrary to principles of sound policy are void.”252 The prevalent view in the nineteenth century was that the doctrine of public policy should be governed by precedent and courts should refrain from inventing new heads of public policy. The purpose behind limiting the grounds of public policy was to respect the freedom of contract of parties, which was also considered as a paramount policy in common law.253 Under the common law, a contract for marriage brokerage, creation of a perpetuity, in restraint of trade, gaming or wagering, or assisting the King’s enemies were unlawful and opposed to public policy.254 251 Percy H Winfield, ‘Public Policy in the English Common Law’ (1928) 42(1) Harvard Law Review 76, 92. 252 Stephen Waddams, Principle and Policy in Contract Law (Cambridge University Press, 2011) 152. 253 Ibid, at 158 254 Janson v. Driefontein Consolidated Mines, Limited, [1902] 2 AC 484 [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2263 Central Organisation for Railway Electrification v. M/s ECI SPIC SMO MCML (JV) A Joint Venture Company 142. This Court has adopted a flexible approach to the application of the doctrine of public policy to contracts. In Gherulal Parakh v. Mahadeodas Maiya,255 this Court had to decide on the validity of a wagering contract under Section 23 of the Contract Act. The three- Judge Bench observed that public policy is a branch of common law and can be applied in clear and incontestable cases of harm to the public. It was further observed that the doctrine could be invoked by evolving “a new head under exceptional circumstances of a changing world.” The court must determine public policy by considering the welfare of society and the social consequences of the rule propounded, especially in light of the factual evidence available to its probable result.256 In Delhi Transport Corporation v. DTC Mazdoor Congress,257 this Court held that courts can rely upon the Constitution as a source of public policy. In his concurring opinion, Justice Ramaswamy observed: “292. From this perspective, it must be held that in the absence of specific head of public policy which covers a case, then the court must in consonance with public conscience and in keeping with public good and public interest invent new public policy and declare such practice or rules that are derogatory to the Constitution to be opposed to public policy. The rules which stem from the public policy must of necessity be laid to further the progress of the society in particular when social change is to bring about an egalitarian social through rule of law. In deciding a case which may not be covered by authority courts have before them the beacon light of the trinity of the Constitution and the play of legal light and shade must lead on the path of justice, social, economic and political.