He stated that both are included within Other Backward Classes. He observed that none can deny that goldsmiths are far less backward than vaddes and so if both are grouped together and reservation provided, the inevitable result would be that goldsmiths would take away all the reserved posts leaving none for vaddes. The Learned Judge further observed that in such a situation, a State may think it advisable to make a categorization even among other backward classes so as to ensure that the more backward among the backward classes obtain the benefits intended for them. He stated that where to draw the line and how to effect the sub-classification, however, is a matter for the Commission and the State and so long as it is reasonably done, the Court may not intervene. 227. It will also be relevant to note that in paragraph 803, the Learned Judge observed that Article 16(4) recognizes only one class i.e., 1566 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “backward class of citizens”. It does not speak separately of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, as does Article 15(4). The Learned Judge observed that it is beyond controversy that Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes are also included in the expression “backward class of citizens” and that separate reservations can be provided in their favour. The Learned Judge observed that if Scheduled Tribes, Scheduled Castes and Other Backward Classes are lumped together, OBCs will take away all the vacancies leaving Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes high and dry. He states that the same logic also warrants categorization as between more backward and backward. 228. As has already been noted before, in paragraph 781 of Indra Sawhney, Jeevan Reddy, J. states that for the purpose of the discussion in the , the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, which were admittedly included within the backward classes, were kept aside. 229. It is pertinent to note that the said discussion in the was pertaining to “identification” of backward classes of citizens. As discussed hereinabove, insofar as the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes are concerned, identification is already covered by the Presidential List issued under Artiles 341 and 342. 230. Sawant, J. in his also held that Article 16(4) permits classification of backward classes into backward and more or most backward classes. However, this classification is permitted only because of the degrees of social backwardness and not based on economic consideration alone. He held that if backward classes are classified into backward and more or most backward classes, separate quotas of reservations would be kept for each of such classes. In the absence of such separate quotas, the reservations will be illegal. 231. This Court in E.V. Chinnaiah has observed that the law laid down in the case of Indra Sawhney would not be applicable since Jeevan Reddy, J. in his has himself stated that the same would not be applicable to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in paragraph 781, which paragraph deals with identification of backward classes of citizens. Jeevan Reddy, J. states that for the purpose of the said discussion, we keep aside the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes.