108. He then stated that Articles 14 to 16 form a code by themselves and embody the distilled essence of the Constitution’s casteless and classless egalitarianism. He then considered the interplay between Articles 15(4) and 16(4) on the one hand and Articles 15(1) and 16(1) on the other hand. He thereafter refers to the notorious fact of our cultural heritage that the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes have been in unfree India nearly dehumanized, and a facet of the struggle for freedom has been the restoration of full personhood to them together with the right to share in the social and economic development of the country. He thereafter refers to Article 46 and the importance of the said Directive Principle in the governance of the country and observes that it shall be the duty of the State to apply that principle in making laws. He stated that reading Article 46 together with Article 16(4) expresses the intention of the Constitution- framers that the exploitation of the harijan-girijan groups in the past shall be extirpated with special care by the State. For completeness, he then refers to Article 335 to state that measures taken by the State, pursuant to the mandate of Articles 16(4), 46 and 335, shall be consistent with and not subversive of “the maintenance of efficiency of administration”. 109. Krishna Iyer, J. then observed that Article 341 makes it clear that a “Scheduled Caste” need not be a “caste” in the conventional sense and, therefore, may not be a caste within the meaning of Article 15(2) or 16(2). He states that Scheduled Castes become such only if the President specifies any castes, races or tribes or parts or groups within castes, races or tribes for the purpose of the Constitution. He observed that under the definition, one group in a caste may be a Scheduled Caste and another from the same caste may not be and that it is the socio-economic backwardness of a social bracket, not mere birth in a caste, that is decisive. 1510 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 110. In paragraph 73, he refers to Dr. Ambedkar’s address to the Constituent Assembly, which has already been extracted by us in the beginning of the . Paragraph 73 is reproduced hereunder: “73. A luminous preface to the constitutional values nullified by social realities is found in Dr Ambedkar’s address to the Constituent Assembly earlier extracted, which draws poignant attention to the life of contradictions between the explosive social and economic inequalities and the processes of political democracy. “How long shall we continue to live this life of contradictions? How long shall we continue to deny equality in our social and economic life?” was the interrogation before the framers of the Constitution and they wanted to enforce the principle of “one man, one value”. This perspective must inform the code of equality contained in Articles 14 to 16. Equality being a dynamic concept with flexible import this Court has read into Articles 14 to 16 the pragmatic doctrine of classification and equal treatment to all who fall within each class.