With few or no protective systems to ensure their safety, medical professionals have become vulnerable to violence. With the involvement of systemic issues for healthcare across the nation, this court has had to intervene. 1 https://medicaldialogues.in/news/health/doctors/mob-attack-2-surgeons-brutally-attacked-after-patient- death-admitted-in-icu-128063 2 https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/pregnant-womans-death-sparks-violence-by-kin-nurse-thrown- off-1st-floor-of-bihar-nursing-home/articleshow/110475737.cms 3 https://indianexpress.com/article/cities/hyderabad/hyderabad-doctor-attacked-in-hospital-by- attendants-after-patient-dies-8604280/ 1052 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 7. Women are at particular risk of sexual and non-sexual violence in these settings. Due to ingrained patriarchal attitudes and biases, relatives of patients are more likely to challenge women medical professionals. In addition to this, female medical professionals also face different forms of sexual violence at the workplace by colleagues, seniors and persons in authority. Sexual violence has had its origins even within the institution, the case of Aruna Shanbag being a case in point. There is a hierarchy within medical colleges and the career advancement and academic degrees of young professionals are capable of being affected by those in the upper echelons. The lack of institutional safety norms at medical establishments against both violence and sexual violence against medical professionals is a matter of serious concern. While gendered violence is the source of the more malevolent manifestations of the structural deficiencies in public health institutions, the lack of safety is of concern to all medical professionals. Preserving safe conditions of work is central to realizing equality of opportunity to every working professional. This is not just a matter of protecting doctors. Their safety and well-being as health providers is a matter of national interest. As more and more women join the work force in cutting edge areas of knowledge and science, the nation has a vital stake in ensuring safe and dignified conditions of work. The constitutional value of equality demands nothing else and will not brook compromises on the health, well being and safety of those who provide health care to others. The nation cannot await a rape or murder for real changes on the ground. 8. Several States, such as Maharashtra,4 Kerala,5 Karnataka,6 Telangana,7 West Bengal,8 Andhra Pradesh9 and Tamil Nadu10 have 4 See Maharashtra Medicare Service Persons and Medicare Service Institutions (Prevention of violence and damage or loss to property) Act 2010 5 See Kerala Healthcare Service Persons and Healthcare Service Institutions (Prevention of Violence and Damage to property) Act 2012 6 See The Karnataka Prohibition of Violence Against Medicare Service Personnel and Damage to Property in Medicare Service Institutions Act 2009 7 See Telangana Medicare Service Persons and Medicare Service Institutions (Prevention of Violence and Damage to Property) Act 2008 8 See West Bengal Medicare Service Persons and Medicare Service Institutions (Prevention of Violence and Damage to Property) Act 2009 9 See Andhra Pradesh Medicare Service Persons and Medicare Service Institutions (Prevention of Violence and Damage to Property) Act 2008 10 See Tamil Nadu Medicare Service Persons and Medicare Service Institutions (Prevention of Violence and Damage or Loss to Property) Act 2008 [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1053 In Re: Alleged Rape and Murder Incident of A Trainee Doctor In R.G. Kar Medical College and Hospital, Kolkata and Related Issues Versus enacted legislation to protect healthcare service professionals from violence and damage to property.