Non-compliance coupled with an assurance in court to comply, after the court has issued notice on the contempt petition, is not sufficient to attract the principle of “continuing wrong/ breach/offence”. A contemnor on pain of suffering consequences for contempt may well give up available defences before the court and proceed to obey the /direction, of which he is alleged to be in contempt; but if the jurisdiction to punish is otherwise barred, there is no law that prohibits the court from first proceeding to ascertain whether the jurisdiction is at all available to be exercised; and, when an objection of maintainability based on limitation is raised, it becomes all the more essential for the court to decide the objection leaving aside other considerations. The Division Bench (review), unfortunately, missed the woods for the tree. 67. Proceeding ahead, we find that as complex as the issues surrounding the title of the subject land are, the impugned of the Division Bench (review) is unsustainable in law, for, it has exceeded its contempt jurisdiction, which indubitably is limited and finite in the sense that every court exercising power to punish for contempt ought to keep itself within the boundaries specified by the Act and the judicial pronouncements in this behalf. The laborious exercise undertaken to unravel the web of deeds and documents so as to determine the [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1115 S. Tirupathi Rao v. M. Lingamaiah & Ors. question of title was akin to an exercise undertaken by a court of first instance or first appeal and, thus, wholly unwarranted. It is of the utmost importance to remember that none of the documents produced by the first respondent answered the question as to whether the contempt petition was barred by limitation, which is the question the Division Bench (review) ought to have confined itself to, since it was only tasked with exercising review, and not appellate, jurisdiction. 68. In our considered view, it further becomes imperative to undertake an examination of the contempt petition itself. This exercise reveals that the primary grounds taken for the contempt petition being filed belatedly, inter alia, were the pendency of collateral proceedings and the continuous filing of representations before the Tahsildar by the applicants. Law is well-settled that the issue of limitation has to be considered with reference to the original cause of action. The period of limitation does not stand extended to the last of repeated representations made by a party, if filing of representation is not statutorily provided. The contempt petition is, however, entirely bereft of any pleading to the effect that the breach committed by the Tahsildar is in the nature of a continuing wrong or breach or offence, so as to overcome the bar of limitation set by section 20 of the Act read with rule 21 of the Writ Rules. 69. Despite the absence of any pleading as to “continuing wrong/breach/ offence”, the Single Judge by placing reliance on the decision in Firm Ganpat Ram Rajkumar v. Kalu Ram 48 proceeded to hold that the Tahsildar’s inaction constituted a continuing wrong, thereby saving the petition from being barred by limitation.