765 M/S Brahmaputra Concrete Pipe Industries Etc. Etc. v. The Assam State Electricity Board and Others (h) rules as to stay of proceedings; (i) rules providing for the summary determination of any appeal which appears to the Court to be frivolous or vexations or brought for the purpose of delay; (j) rules as to the procedure for inquiries referred to in clause (1) of article 317. (2) Subject to the provisions of clause (3), rules made under this article may fix the minimum number of Judges who are to sit for any purpose, and may provide for the powers of single Judges and Division Courts. (3) The minimum number of Judges who are to sit for the purpose of deciding any case involving a substantial question of law as to the interpretation of this Constitution or for the purpose of hearing any reference under Article 143 shall be five: Provided that, where the Court hearing an appeal under any of the provisions of this Chapter other than article 132 consists of less than five Judges and in the course of the hearing of the appeal of the Court is satisfied that the appeal involves a substantial question of law as to the interpretation of this Constitution the determination of which is necessary for the disposal of the appeal, such Court shall refer the question for opinion to a Court constituted as required by this clause for the purpose of deciding any case involving such a question and shall on receipt of the opinion dispose of the appeal in conformity with such opinion. (4) No shall be delivered by the Supreme Court save in open Court, and no report shall be made under article 143 save in accordance with an opinion also delivered in open Court. (5) No and so such opinion shall be delivered by the Supreme Court save with the concurrence of a majority of the Judges present at the hearing of the 766 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports case, but nothing in this clause shall be deemed to prevent a Judge who does not concur from delivering a dissenting or opinion.” 8. The expression “curative petition” was used by Constitution Bench of this Court comprising of five Hon’ble Judges in the case of Rupa Ashok Hurra -vs- Ashok Hurra and Another [(2002) 4 SCC 388]. This Court, in the said , opined that to prevent abuse of the Court’s process and to cure a gross miscarriage of justice, the Supreme Court may reconsider its s in exercise of its inherent powers. This inherent power or jurisdiction was traced to Articles 129 and 142 of the Constitution of India. It was inter-alia, held in this :- “50. The next step is to specify the requirements to entertain such a curative petition under the inherent power of this Court so that floodgates are not opened for filing a second review petition as a matter of course in the guise of a curative petition under inherent power. It is common ground that except when very strong reasons exist, the Court should not entertain an application seeking reconsideration of an of this Court which has become final on dismissal of a review petition.