313 Just Rights for Children Alliance & Anr. v. S. Harish & Ors. empathy, understanding the harm caused to victims, and altering problematic thought patterns. (v) Raising awareness about the realities of child sexual exploitative material and its consequences through public campaigns can help reduce its prevalence. These campaigns should aim to destigmatize reporting and encourage community vigilance. (vi) Identifying at-risk individuals early and implementing intervention strategies for youth with problematic sexual behaviours (PSB) involves several steps and requires a coordinated effort among various stakeholders, including educators, healthcare providers, law enforcement, and child welfare services. Educators, healthcare professionals, and law enforcement officers should be imparted training to identify signs of PSB. Awareness programs can help these professionals recognize early warning signs and understand how to respond appropriately. (vii) Schools can also play a crucial role in early identification and intervention. Implementing school-based programs that educate students about healthy relationships, consent, and appropriate behaviour can help prevent PSB. (viii) To give meaningful effect to the above suggestions and work out the necessary modalities, the Union of India may consider constituting an Expert Committee tasked with devising a comprehensive program or mechanism for health and sex education, as well as raising awareness about the POCSO among children across the country from an early age, for ensuring a robust and well-informed approach to child protection, education, and sexual well-being. (ix) We urge the Parliament to consider amending Section 15 sub-section (1) of POCSO so as to make it more convenient for the general public to report by way of an online portal, any instance of storage or possession of CSEAM to the specified authorities for the purpose of the said provision. G. FINAL 261. For all the foregoing reasons, we have reached the conclusion that the High Court committed an egregious error in passing the impugned . We are left with no other option but to set aside the impugned and passed by the High Court, and 314 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports restore the criminal proceedings in Spl. S.C. No. 170 of 2023 to the court of Sessions Judge, Mahila Neethi Mandram (Fast Track Court), Tiruvallur District. We accordingly pass such . 262. We direct the Registry to send one copy each of this to the Principal Secretary, Ministry of Law & Justice, Union of India and to the Principal Secretary, Ministry of Women and Child Development, Union of India, for undertaking appropriate course of action. 263. Pending application(s) if any, also stand disposed of. Result of the Case: Appeals disposed of. †Headnotes prepared by: Divya Pandey