& Anr. determine the proper duty payable on such instrument along with penalty as provided in clause (b) of section 41. 24. Section 42 of the Stamp Act provides that when duty and penalty, if any, leviable in respect of any instrument has been paid under sections 35, 40 or 41 upon endorsement by the Collector that such duty has been paid, instrument shall thereupon be admissible in evidence. 25. In the present case, the agreement to sell dated 29.03.1999 was found by the Trial Court to be insufficiently stamped. Consequently, the matter was referred to the Collector for determination of proper stamp duty and any applicable penalty. As per the provisions of Section 42 of the Stamp Act, such a document can only become admissible in evidence after deficiency in stamp duty and the penalty, if any, have been assessed by the Collector, and the requisite amounts have been paid. Once the deficiency and penalty are cleared, the Collector is required to certify the document by endorsement, indicating that the required duty and penalty have been paid. Only upon such certification can the document be admitted into evidence and acted upon legally. 26. Despite the Trial Court’s referral of the matter to the Collector, no determination regarding the deficiency in stamp duty or penalty was made by the Collector under Section 40 of the Samp Act. As a result, the document remains inadmissible in evidence under the express bar imposed by Section 35 of the Stamp Act. Failure to resolve the deficiency in stamp duty prevents the document from being considered as admissible and valid in evidence. Therefore, until the necessary stamp duty and penalty are duly paid and endorsed by the Collector, the instrument remains legally barred from being admitted in evidence. 27. The argument advanced on behalf of the plaintiff-respondent no.1 is that he would be entitled to get benefit of section 36 of the Stamp Act as the document had been exhibited and admitted in evidence, holds no ground in as much as the document was found to be insufficiently stamped and was marked as exhibit with objection and that objection having not been removed or cured, no benefit of section 36 of the Stamp Act could be extended to the plaintiff- respondent no.1. 998 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 28. In this connection, following cases are cited: Ram Rattan (dead) by L.Rs. vs. Bajrang Lal and others;2 Javer Chand and others vs. Pukhraj Surana;3 29. The Trial Court had placed reliance upon the aforesaid two s and had also extracted the relevant part from the said s. The facts in the 1978 case of Ram Rattan (dead) by L.Rs. (supra) were quite similar wherein an instrument had been exhibited with objection but therein also the said objection had not been removed or cured. This Court held that such an instrument would not be admissible in evidence and section 36 of the Stamp Act would not be attracted. The relevant paras of this judgement are reproduced below: “6.