121 of 2014) before the NGT, wherein he made the following prayers: (i) “Direct the State Government and the Respondent Nos. 3 and 4 to recognize the areas mentioned in notification dated 7.12.2000 as forest and any non-forest activity should not be allowed without prior permission under Section 2 of the Forest. (ii) Direct the State Government not to change the land use in any forests/green belt area as stated in clause d of notification dated 11.8.2000 to protect the ecology, environment and future of Shimla. (iii) Pass any other s as the Hon’ble Tribunal may deem fit and proper in facts and circumstances of the case.” 3.6 The appellant-State of Himachal Pradesh (respondent in the said OA) filed a reply dated 23rd July 2014 before the NGT, wherein it specifically contended that the use of the words “Green Belt” does not include or bring the areas under forests and the “Green Belt” includes both forest and non-forest areas and that no permission for construction or any non-forestry activity would be allowed on forest land without approval under the Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980 (hereinafter referred to as the “FC Act”). [2024] 1 S.C.R. 985 The State of Himachal Pradesh and Others v. Yogendera Mohan Sengupta and Another 3.7 Despite the assurance given by the State Government, the NGT, suo motu, extended the scope of the application and vide an ad-interim dated 30th May 2014 banned all types of construction activities in the Green Belt areas of Shimla covered under the notification dated 7th December 2000. 3.8 Thereafter, vide dated 12th October 2015 in the said OA No. 121 of 2014, the NGT constituted a Committee comprising of officers from the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA), a senior scientist from Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology, Dehradun as nominated by the Director and other officials of the State and Central Governments for submitting its report on various aspects including water supply and the strength of carrying capacity of the hills. 3.9 Pursuant to the said dated 12th October 2015 passed by the NGT, the Additional Chief Secretary, Department of Town & Country Planning (Government of Himachal Pradesh) issued a notification dated 6th November 2015 for the constitution of an Expert Committee. The Expert Committee submitted a report to the NGT on 29th August 2016. Along with an affidavit filed by the State of Himachal Pradesh, the final report of the Expert Committee came to be submitted to the NGT on 20th May 2017. 3.10 Thereafter the first of NGT came to be passed, whereby it issued various directions to the appellants herein and further banned all kinds of construction activities in core/forest/green areas in Shimla and further restricted the construction and re- construction activities in the entire SPA. 3.11 Some of the directions issued vide first of NGT, inter alia, prohibited new construction of any kind, i.e. residential, institutional and commercial, in any part of the core and green/ forest area and also directed that even in the other areas which fall within the SPA, construction would not be permitted beyond 2 storeys + attic floor.