There has been a considerable degree of contest over the facts that may be germane in the present matter. The question of establishment of the AMU and the facts surrounding it, the resultant AMU Act, 1920 [as it then stood] and the history of the Mahommedan Anglo- Oriental College [hereinafter referred to as the “MAO College”] have been presented by the parties in their own manner and style. Without adverting to the contested facts or claims, the Court would be benefitted by culling out the uncontested facts which are relevant for the purposes of the present adjudication. 10. The history of modern higher education in India starts from the Charter Act of 1813 of the British Crown which allocated funds for education in British India, leading to the establishment of institutions like the Hindu College in Calcutta in 1817. In 1854, an education policy of the British for British India came in the form of the Wood’s Dispatch, officially known as the “Despatch on Indian Education”. It was a seminal educational policy document issued in 1854 by Sir Charles Wood, the President of the Board of Control for India and marked a significant step in the development of the modern education system in India. The Dispatch advocated for the establishment of universities in major cities and improvements in schools and specifically provided that the “examinations for degrees will not include any subjects connected with religious belief; and the affiliated institutions will be under the management of persons of every variety of religious persuasion.” 11. In 1857, Act II, XXII and XXVII were passed by the Imperial Legislative Council [a representative body empowered by the British Parliament to make laws for British India] to establish the first three 1924 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports Universities in India, namely Universities of Calcutta, Bombay and Madras. Thereafter, Act XLVII of 1860, was passed by the Imperial Legislative Council, which expanded the powers of the abovesaid three Universities to grant degrees. As a matter of policy and practice, the British Imperial power in India therefore, set-up Universities through a legislative enactment and resultantly “recognised” such Universities for the purposes the colonial power deemed fit. The legislations mentioned above, provided the British officials significant controlling and regulatory powers to administer the institutions. There has been considerable emphasis on this aspect of the matter and shall be discussed separately in a particular section of the . 12. In 1870, a private committee was set up by the name of Committee for the Better Diffusion and Advancement of Learning among the Muhammadans of India, which submitted its report in 1872. The said Report provided a roadmap for the Muhammadan Oriental College as an institution to promote Western Arts and Sciences for the education of Muslims in India. In 1873, on the said lines, a Scheme was proposed for the MAO College. 13. On 24.05.1875, the opening ceremony of the MAO College was held in Aligarh. On 08.01.1877, the foundation of the MAO College was laid by Sir Syed.