The submission that Entry 50 – List II is sui generis because it is the only legislative Entry which limits the taxing powers of the State legislatures by reference to a general law, is a correct submission made by Sri Harish Salve, learned senior counsel. Therefore, the expression “mineral development” found in Entry 50 – List II has to be traced to the entire architecture of the MMDR Act, 1957 which serves as limitation of the taxing power of the State legislature under Entry 50 – List II. To read it otherwise would lead to destruction of the federal balance, as rightly contended by Sri Salve. Further, tax on mineral right would also include royalty as envisaged under Section 9 and the other Sections of the MMDR Act, 1957 which is in the nature of sovereign exaction and every holder of mining lease is bound to pay royalty in terms of Section 9 read with Second Schedule to the said Act. In that sense, royalty is in the nature of a tax on mineral rights which has to be compulsorily paid by the holder of a mining lease irrespective of who the owner of the mineral bearing land is. 39.1 Also the MMDR Act, 1957 and the Rules made thereunder is a complete Code on the regulation of mineral development and royalty paid by a holder of a mining lease is in the nature of a tax paid on mineral rights, the State legislature cannot, on the basis of royalty paid, levy any other tax, cess or surcharge on cess. The States can only levy tax on sale of mineral as per Entry 54 – List II which is not a tax on mineral rights, as rightly contended by Sri Datar, learned senior counsel. Moreover, Entry 50 – List II is a recognition of parliamentary superiority via imposition of a limitation, as rightly argued by Dr. Singhvi, learned senior counsel. 39.2 Consequently, the contention of learned senior counsel Sri Rakesh Dwivedi for the appellants-States to the effect that value of the minerals could be used as a measure to tax mineral bearing land under Entry 49 – List II cannot be accepted. It is also not right to contend that the Parliament [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1841 Mineral Area Development Authority & Anr. v. M/s Steel Authority of India & Anr. Etc. has only fixed the amount of royalty payable under Section 9 which cannot be a limitation on the taxing power of the State legislature under Entry 50 – List II. Moreover, the expression “any limitation” used in Entry 50 – List II can be construed to mean even a prohibition apart from a restriction. Conclusions: 40. What follows are my answers to the conclusions reached on the issues raised in the of Hon’ble the Chief Justice of India, which read as under: Question Issues My Conclusions a. What is the true nature The true nature of royalty determined of royalty determined under Section 9 read with Section under Section 9 read 15(1) of the MMDR Act, 1957 is with Section 15(1) of the that it is in the nature of a tax MMDR Act?