Digital Supreme Court Reports said a departmental (disciplinary) proceeding is initiated against the employee. 19. This issue was again considered by this Court in Rajinder Lal Capoor (supra). Respondent in that case was an officer of the UCO Bank. Following a disciplinary proceeding, he was dismissed from service. However, the High Court in writ jurisdiction converted the punishment of removal from service into one of compulsory retirement with effect from the date of superannuation. UCO Bank came up in appeal following leave granted before this Court. On examining, this Court while opining that the High Court may not have been correct in converting the penalty of removal from service to compulsory retirement, however, came to the conclusion that initiation of departmental proceeding itself was wholly illegal and without jurisdiction. The chargesheet was issued on 13.11.1998 whereas the respondent had attained the age of superannuation on or before 01.11.1996. Referring to the relevant provision i.e. Regulation 20(3)(iii) of the UCO Bank Officer Employees’ Service Regulations, 1979 which created a legal fiction of continuance in service of the concerned officer post superannuation if disciplinary proceeding had been initiated prior to superannuation, such continuance of service being only for the purpose of conclusion of the disciplinary proceeding, this Court held that such a provision could be invoked only when the disciplinary proceeding had clearly been initiated prior to the respondents’ ceasing to be in service. Only when a valid departmental proceeding is initiated against the officer while in service, despite his attaining the age of superannuation, the disciplinary proceeding can be allowed to be continued on the basis of the legal fiction as if he was in service. Thus, when a departmental proceeding is continued by reason of the legal fiction, the delinquent officer would be deemed to be in service although he has reached his age of superannuation. Reiterating the view taken in K.V. Jankiraman (supra), this Court held that the departmental proceeding is not initiated merely by issuance of a show cause notice. It is initiated only when a chargesheet is issued. In the facts of that case, since the disciplinary proceeding was initiated after the age of superannuation, the chargesheet, inquiry report and the of punishment were held to be illegal and without jurisdiction by this Court and those were set aside. Consequently, all retiral benefits due to the respondent was directed to be paid. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 815 State Bank of India & Ors. v. Navin Kumar Sinha 20. Similarly in Coal India Ltd. Vs. Saroj Kumar Mishra,5 this Court again reiterated the legal position that a departmental proceeding is ordinarily said to be initiated only when a chargesheet is issued. 21. A three-Judge Bench of this Court in Canara Bank Vs. D.R.P. Sundharam6 examined the meaning and effect of Regulation 20(3) (iii) of the Canara Bank (Officers’) Service Regulations, 1979 which is pari materia to Regulation 20(3)(iii) of the UCO Bank Officer Employees’ Services Regulations, 1979 in the light of the view taken in Rajinder Lal Capoor (supra) and held that Regulation 20(3)(iii) is a stand-alone provision.