153 M/s Pro Knits v. The Board of Directors of Canara Bank & Ors. of law for thwarting the actions taken under the SARFAESI Act by raising the plea of being an MSME at a belated stage. Suffice it to say, when it is mandatory or obligatory on the part of the Banks to follow the Instructions/Directions issued by the Central Government and the Reserve Bank of India with regard to the Framework for Revival and Rehabilitation of MSMEs, it would be equally incumbent on the part of the concerned MSMEs to be vigilant enough to follow the process laid down under the said Framework, and bring to the notice of the concerned Banks, by producing authenticated and verifiable documents/material to show its eligibility to get the benefit of the said Framework. 18. In that view of the matter, we are of the opinion that the findings recorded by the High Court in the impugned that the Banks are not obliged to adopt the restructuring process on its own or that the Framework contained in the Notification dated 29.05.2015, as revised from time to time could not be said to be mandatory in nature, are highly erroneous and cannot be countenanced. The Instructions/ Directions issued by the Central Government under Section 9 of the MSMED Act and by the RBI under Section 21 and Section 35A have statutory force and are binding to all the Banking companies. 19. The impugned therefore is set aside. Since, it has been submitted by the Learned Counsels for the Respondents-banks that in all the cases, the proceedings under the SARFAESI Act have already been concluded and the possession of the respective premises of the petitioners has already been taken over, we do not propose to remand the matters to the High Court for deciding the Writ Petitions afresh. However, since the High Court has not dealt with the other issues based on the factual aspects of the writ petitions, we clarify that it would be open for the appellants to take recourse to any remedy as may be legally available to them for agitating the issues not decided by the High Court in the impugned . All the appeals stand allowed to the aforesaid extent. Result of the case: Appeals allowed. †Headnotes prepared by: Divya Pandey