117. On Entries 23 and 66 of List II, Justice Mukharji observed that the legislative power of the State legislature to levy fees is denuded by the enactment of the MMDR Act by Parliament. Finally, on Entry 50 of List II, Justice Mukharji observed that the bar provided in Section 9(3) on the enhancement of royalty specified under the Second Schedule also applies to the state legislature. Imposition of cess on royalties was held to have the effect of amending the Second Schedule and was held ultra vires Section 9(3). Section 9 was regarded to be a limitation on the taxing power of the State legislature under Entry 50 of List II.168 Moreover, the Court held that the field is covered by the MMDR Act and hence the legislative power of the state stands denuded.169 Paragraph 34 of the sets out the conclusions: “34. In the aforesaid view of the matter, we are of the opinion that royalty is a tax, and as such a cess on royalty being a tax on royalty, is beyond the competence of the State legislature because Section 9 of the Central Act covers the field and the State legislature is denuded of its competence under Entry 23 of List II. In any event, we are of the opinion that cess on royalty cannot be sustained under Entry 49 of List II as being a tax on land. Royalty on mineral rights is not a tax on land but a payment for the user of land.” (emphasis added) 167 India Cement (supra) [33] 168 India Cement (supra) [32] 169 India Cement (supra) [33] [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1649 Mineral Area Development Authority & Anr. v. M/s Steel Authority of India & Anr. Etc. 118. In a concurring opinion, Justice G L Oza held that royalty is not a unit of charge merely on land, but on labour and capital as well. Resultantly, imposition of cess on royalty was held not to be a levy or tax on land in terms of Entry 49 of List II. Justice Oza suggested that the cess could have been saved, if it was levied on surface rent or dead rent. In his view, surface rent or dead rent is relatable to land, hence a cess on surface rent or dead rent would fall within the purview of Entry 49 of List II. 119. In Raojibhai Jivabhai Patel v. State of Gujarat,170 a three judge Bench of this Court referred to India Cement (supra) to reiterate that royalty levied on extracted mineral is in the nature of tax. In a series of subsequent decisions, particularly in Orissa Cement Ltd v. State of Orissa171 and Saurashtra Cement & Chemical Industries Ltd. v. Union of India,172 this Court followed India Cement (supra). In State of M P v. Mahalaxmi Fabric Mills Ltd,173 this Court rejected the submission that paragraph 34 of India Cement (supra) contained a “typographical error”. However, a divergence in opinion on whether royalty is in the nature of tax emerged.