Article 341 provides that exclusion even of a part or a group of castes from the Presidential List can be done only by Parliament. The logical corollary [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1541 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. thereof would be that the State Legislatures are forbidden from doing that. A uniform yardstick must be adopted for giving benefits to the members of the Scheduled Castes for the purpose of the Constitution. The impugned legislation being contrary to the above constitutional scheme cannot, therefore, be sustained.” 156. It has been held that the conglomeration of castes given in the Presidential should be considered as representing a class as a whole. It has been held that the very idea of placing different castes or tribes or group or part thereof in a State as a conglomeration by way of a deeming definition clearly suggests that they are not to be subdivided or subclassified further. It has been held that if a class within a class of members of the Scheduled Castes is created, the same would amount to tinkering with the list. Such subclassification would be violative of Article 14 of the Constitution. 157. The Court also held that classification of the members of different classes of people based on their respective castes would also be violative of the doctrine of reasonableness. 158. S.B. Sinha, J. in his separate concurring opinion held thus: “93. Scheduled Caste, however, is not a caste in terms of its definition as contained in Article 366(24) of the Constitution. They are brought within the purview of the said category by reason of their abysmal backwardness. Scheduled Caste consists of not only the people who belong to some backward caste but also race or tribe or part of or groups within castes, races or tribes. They are not merely backward but the backwardmost. A person even does not cease to be a Scheduled Caste automatically even on his conversion to another religion. (See Punit Rai v. Dinesh Chaudhary [(2003) 8 SCC 204] and State of Kerala v. Chandramohanan [(2004) 3 SCC 429 : 2004 SCC (Cri) 818 : AIR 2004 SC 1672]. )” 159. It could thus be seen that His Lordship has also recognized that the Scheduled Caste consists of not only the people who belong to some backward caste but also race or tribe or part of or groups within castes, races or tribes and that they are not merely backward but the backwardmost. 1542 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 160. After referring to the observations of this Court in Indra Sawhney (supra) regarding the applicability of ‘means test’ and ‘creamy-layer test’, the Learned Judge observed thus: “96. But we must state that whenever such a situation arises in respect of Scheduled Caste, it will be Parliament alone to take the necessary legislative steps in terms of clause (2) of Article 341 of the Constitution. The States concededly do not have the legislative competence therefor.” 161. It is further observed in paragraph 113 thus: “113.