As the provisions of the aforesaid two Constitutional Amendments have a bearing on the composition, duration reservation of seats and responsibilities of Panchayats and Municipalities, 228 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports it has become necessary to make further changes in the Delhi Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Bill, 1992 so as to harmonise the provisions of the Delhi Municipal Corporation Act, 1957 with the provisions of the aforesaid two Constitutional Amendments. 3. Government has, therefore, proposed to withdraw the Delhi Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Bill, 1992 to introduce a new Amendment Bill in harmony with aforesaid Constitution Amendment Acts, with such modifications as are necessary in view of the special requirements of the Union Territory of Delhi. 4. The important changes sought to be brought about by the Bill are- (i), (ii)……. (iii) Provision has been made for ten persons of not less than 25 years of age and possessing special knowledge or experience in municipal administration, to be nominated by the Administrator to the Corporation; (iv) to (xv)………. Notes on Clauses Many of the clauses of the Bill provide for amendments to the Delhi Municipal Corporation Act, 1957 in to bring its provisions, as far as possible, in consonance with the provisions contained in the Constitution (Seventy-third Amendment) Act, 1992 and the Constitution (Seventy- fourth Amendment) Act, 1992 as well as consequent on the transfer of certain functions now being performed by the Municipal Corporation of Delhi to other agencies. Clause 3 provides for the increase in the number of Councillors from one hundred to one hundred and thirty- four. It also provides for representation of ten persons, having special knowledge or experience in municipal administration (without voting right) to be nominated by the Administrator and representation of MPs from Delhi and Members of Legislative Assembly of Delhi….” [2024] 8 S.C.R. 229 Government of NCT of Delhi v. Office of Lieutenant Governor of Delhi The 1993 Amendment to the DMC Act: 28. The DMC Act, as amended in 1993 (by Act 67/93) recognizes five authorities exercising distinct powers and duties under the Act. They are the, i) Central Government, ii) Government of NCTD, iii) Administrator, iv) Corporation, and v) the Commissioner. These authorities are also defined under the Act. Section 2(21A) defines ‘Government’ as ‘the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi’, ‘Administrator’ is defined under Section 2(1) as ‘the Lt. Governor of the National Capital Territory of Delhi’, the ‘Corporation’ is defined under Section 2(7) as ‘the Municipal Corporation of Delhi’ and finally the ‘Commissioner’ is defined under Section 2(6) as ‘the Commissioner of the Corporation appointed under Section 54 of the Act’. 29. The (Amendment) Act carries out as many as 136 amendments to the principal Act to give effect to a scheme by which powers, duties, and responsibilities are allocated to the authorities, depending on the functions that they perform under the Act. This also includes comprehensive amendments to Section 3(3)(b)(i) of the Act. For instance, while the power of nomination of Aldermen is given to the Lt.