The Advisories are being issued from time to time to include millets and to widen nutritional standards to enhance nutrition levels amongst the beneficiaries. 4. The learned counsels for the petitioners submitted that undoubtedly the Union of India and the States have taken the steps to combat hunger, malnutrition and starvation by implementing various Central and State Government Schemes, however according to them even if the hunger, malnutrition or starvation may not necessarily result in [2024] 2 S.C.R. 817 Anun Dhawan & Ors. v. Union of India & Ors. death, the Centre and States have the constitutional duty to ensure basic sustainability of human life. The learned ASG Mr. R. Bala submitted that this being not an adversarial litigation, the details of schemes, programmes, policies and other measures taken by the Central Government and the State Governments have been submitted to satisfy the conscience of the court that they have successfully implemented the schemes for protecting the fundamental rights of the citizens. He also submitted that there is no further need for continued monitoring by this Court. 5. It is significant to note that though the Constitution of India does not explicitly provide for Right to food, the fundamental Right to life enshrined in Article 21 of the Constitution does include Right to live with human dignity and right to food and other basic necessities. The Article 47 of the Constitution also provides that the State shall regard the raising of level of nutrition and the standard of living of its people and the improvement of public health as among its primary duties. 6. Keeping in view the goal of eradicating extreme poverty and hunger as one of the goals of United Nations, and keeping in view the constitutional guarantees for ensuring food security of the people as also for improving the nutritional status of the population, especially of women and children, the Parliament has enacted the National Food Security Act, 2013 (for short NFSA). The object of the said Act is to provide for food and nutritional security in human life cycle approach, by ensuring access to adequate quantity of quality food at affordable prices to people to live a life with dignity and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto. With the enactment of the NFSA there was a paradigm shift in the approach to food security from “welfare to rights based approach.” The said Act has been implemented in all States/ UTs. One of the guiding principles of the Act is its “life cycle approach, wherein special provisions have been made for pregnant women and lactating mothers and children in the age group of 6 months to 14 years, by entitling them to receive nutritious meals free of cost, through a widespread network of Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) centers, called Anganwadi centers under the ICDS schemes, and also through the schools under Mid-day Meal (MDM) scheme”. Higher nutritional norms have also been prescribed for malnourished children. Pregnant women and lactating mothers are entitled to receive cash maternity benefit to partly compensate them for the wage loss during the period of pregnancy and to supplement 818 [2024] 2 S.C.R.