The Advisory Board must consider whether the detention is necessary not just in the eyes of the detaining authority but also in the eyes of law. 60. The requirement of having persons who have been or are qualified to be High Court judges in the Advisory Board is not an empty formality, it is there to ensure that, an of detention is put to robust scrutiny and examined as it would have been by any ordinary court of law. Otherwise, the purpose of independent scrutiny could very well have been served by having any independent persons, and there would have been no need to have High Court judges or their equivalent. Thus, it is imperative that whenever an of detention is placed before an Advisory Board, it duly considers each and every aspect, not just those confined to the satisfaction of the detaining authority but the overall legality as per the law that has been laid down by this court. 61. An Advisory Board whilst dispensing its function of ascertaining the existence of a “sufficient cause” for detention, cannot keep itself unconcerned or oblivious to the developments that have taken place by a plethora of decisions of this Court delineating the criterion required to be fulfilled for passing an of detention. The “independent scrutiny” as envisaged by Article 22 includes ascertaining whether the detention would withstand the scrutiny a court of law. [2024] 3 S.C.R. 1227 Nenavath Bujji Etc. v. The State of Telangana and Ors. 62. We fail to understand what other purpose the Advisory Board encompassing High Court judges or their equivalent as members would serve, if the extent of their scrutiny of the of detention is confined just to the subjective satisfaction of the detaining authority. The entire purpose behind creation of an Advisory Board is to ensure that no person is mechanically or illegally sent to preventive detention. In such circumstances, the Advisory Boards are expected to play a proactive role. The Advisory Board is a constitutional safeguard and a statutory authority. It functions as a safety valve between the detaining authority and the State on one hand and the rights of the detenu on the other. The Advisory Board should not just mechanically proceed to approve detention s but is required to keep in mind the mandate contained in Article 22(4) of the Constitution of India. 63. Thus, an Advisory Board setup under a preventive detention legislation is required to undertake a proper and thorough scrutiny of an of detention placed before it, by appreciating all aspects and angles before expressing any definite opinion in its report. F. CONCLUSION 64. In the result, this appeal succeeds and is hereby allowed. The impugned and passed by the High Court is set aside. Consequently, the of detention is also quashed and set aside. The appellant detenu be set at liberty forthwith if not required in any other case. 65. The connected Criminal Appeal No. ............. of 2024 @ SLP (Cri) No. 3391 of 2024 of the co-detenu is also allowed for the very same reasons and is disposed of in the aforesaid terms.