509 of 1997. 768 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 2. (1) The petitioner, in the curative petition, shall aver specifically that the grounds mentioned therein had been taken in the Review Petition and that it was dismissed by circulation. (2) A Curative Petition shall be accompanied by a certificate of the Senior Advocate that the petition meets the requirements delineated in the above case. (3) A curative petition shall be accompanied by a certificate of the Advocate on Record to the effect that it is the first curative petition in the impugned matter. 3. The Curative Petition shall be filed within reasonable time from the date of or passed in the Review Petition. 4. (1) The curative petition shall be first circulated to a Bench of the three senior-most judges and the judges who passed the complained of, if available. (2) Unless otherwise ed by the Court, a curative petition shall be disposed of by circulation without any oral arguments but the petitioner may supplement his petition by additional written arguments. (3) If the Bench before which a curative petition was circulated concludes by a majority that the matter needs hearing then it shall be listed before the same Bench, as far as possible. (4) If the Court, at any stage, comes to the conclusion that the petition is without any merit and vexatious, it may impose exemplary costs on the petitioner.” 10. The main point urged on behalf of the appellant is that the Registrar has no power or jurisdiction to decline registration of a curative petition and it should be decided by a Bench of this Court. There appears to be no decision directly on this point and we had requested Mr. Raju Ramachandran, learned Senior Advocate to assist us as an Amicus Curiae in this matter, a request he graciously accepted. Mr. Anand Sanjay M. Nuli has appeared on behalf of the appellants and we have already recorded his main submissions. Mr. Vijay Hansaria, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent has [2024] 2 S.C.R. 769 M/S Brahmaputra Concrete Pipe Industries Etc. Etc. v. The Assam State Electricity Board and Others drawn our attention to the XLVIII of the 2013 Rules to point out that since this was a case where review petition was dismissed in open Court hearing after oral submissions were advanced, it does not satisfy the mandate of the five Judge Bench laid down in the case of Rupa Ashok Hurra (supra). Mr. Hansaria has also taken the point of delay in filing the curative petition. The review petition was dismissed on 18.12.2019 and the curative petition was filed on 31.10.2020, after a lapse of ten months. He has taken us through the provisions of Rule 3 of XLVIII of the 2013 Rules which requires a curative petition to be filed within a reasonable time from the date of or passed in the review petition. But the Rules do not provide any specific time period within which a curative petition has to be filed from the date of dismissal of the review petition.