[2024] 4 S.C.R. 442 : 2024 INSC 290 Smt. Najmunisha v. The State of Gujarat (Criminal Appeal Nos. 2319-2320 of 2009) 09 April 2024 [Aniruddha Bose and Augustine George Masih,* JJ.] Issue for Consideration As per the prosecution, secret information was received by PW-2 (Intelligence Officer/Inspector) as to Accused No. 4 (husband of Accused No.1) carrying contraband from a particular route in an auto rickshaw. Said secret information was recorded by her and reported to her superior-PW-3, (Zonal Officer, a Gazetted Officer). The raiding party chased the said auto rickshaw however, Accused No.4 allegedly abandoned it fleeing away from the scene. On conducting the search of the said auto rickshaw, the raiding party inter alia found 1.450 Kgs charas. It eventually searched the house of Accused No.4 and 1 and found 2.098 Kgs of charas. The said raid/search not based on the personal knowledge of PW-3 as regards there being contraband in the house of Accused No.4 thereby necessitating search for the same, if was bereft of mandatory statutory compliance of s.41(2) of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985. Conviction of Accused No.1 and 4, if justified. Headnotes Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 – s.41(2), 42 – “personal knowledge”, “and taken in writing” – Non-compliance: Held: s.41(2) empowers a Magistrate to issue search warrant for the arrest of any person or for search, whom he has reason to believe to have committed any offence under the NDPS Act – s.41(2) further enables a Gazetted Officer, so empowered to arrest or conduct a search – The empowered Gazetted Officer must have reason to believe that an offence has been committed under Chapter IV, which necessitated the arrest or search– As per s.41(2), such reason to believe must arise from either his personal knowledge or information given by any person to him – Additionally, such knowledge or information is to be reduced into writing by virtue * Author [2024] 4 S.C.R. 443 Smt. Najmunisha v. The State of Gujarat of expression “and taken in writing” used therein – The secret information received by PW-2 was limited to the apprehension that Accused No.4 was to carry contraband via an auto rickshaw from a particular route – There was no reference to the apprehension of existence of contraband in the house of Accused No.4 in the said recorded information – There was no prior information to the raiding party, including PW-3 (Gazetted Officer) that there was contraband in his house, necessitating search for the same – PW-1 deposed that he was asked to accompany the raiding party to the house of Accused No.4, located nearby for carrying out a search thereof and admits of having no knowledge about any written information with the raiding party for conducting raid at the said house – PW-2 admitted that the raiding team proceeded to the house for the search of the contraband pursuant to the discussions carried by them and not particularly on the personal knowledge of PW-3 – She further admitted that it was obligatory for her to obtain a written authorization from her superior officer, PW-3 however, omitted seeking the said authorization on the premise that there was an emergent need to conduct search at the house – Such major inconsistency as to the ‘source’ of information of existence of contraband at the house of Accused No.4 weakens the case of prosecution – Plea that the expressions “personal knowledge” and “and taken in writing” contemplated by s.41(2) ought to be read disjunctively, eliminating the requirement of taking down information in writing when it arises out of the personal knowledge of the Gazetted Officer, rejected – Raid/search at the house of the Accused No.1 and 4 was not based on the personal knowledge of PW-3, rather it was an action on the part of raiding party bereft of mandatory statutory compliance of s.41(2) – Conviction of Accused No.1 premised on the recovery of 2.098 kgs of charas from the house was not in consonance with the mandatory statutory compliance of s.41(2)– Prosecution not able to establish its case beyond reasonable doubt – Impugned of the High Court and Trial Court, set aside – Appellants acquitted by giving benefit of doubt.