The said is clearly distinguishable because in the present case, the fact that the accused was a child on the date of the incident was clearly known to the Investigating Officer, the prosecution and the trial Court and thus, there is no possibility of saving the illegal proceedings by giving them an ex post facto approval. 44. In the case of Pawan Kumar(supra), the plea of juvenility raised by the accused did not find favour of the Sessions Court as well as the High Court. However, in the appeal before this Court, a report was submitted by the Additional Sessions Judge, wherein it was opined that the appellant was a juvenile at the time of commission of alleged offences. The incident in the said case occurred on 1st December, 1995 and the age of juvenility was 16 years as provided in the then prevailing Juvenile Justice Act, 1986. In the peculiar facts of the said case, this Court held that by virtue of subsequent amendments, the age of juvenility had been raised to 18 years and thus, the accused was entitled to be treated as a juvenile by virtue of the provisions of the JJ Act prevailing when the appeal was taken up. [2024] 3 S.C.R. 1247 Thirumoorthy v. State Represented by the Inspector of Police Since the accused had already undergone the maximum punishment of detention provided under the said Act, i.e., three years, it was directed that the accused therein be released forthwith. 45. In the above two referred cases, the situation presented was that the factum regarding the accused being a child within the meaning of the JJ Act came to light at a very late stage i.e. after final decision of the cases and hence both these cases are clearly distinguishable from the case at hand. 46. In the case of Ajeet Gurjar(supra), this Court remitted back the matter to the Sessions Court for complying with the requirements of Section 19(1) of the JJ Act. However, in the present case, there is yet another hurdle which convinces us that it is not a fit case warranting de novo proceedings against the accused appellant by taking recourse to the provisions of the JJ Act. At the cost of repetition, it may be reiterated that the charge sheet was filed against the accused appellant directly before the Sessions Court (statedly designated as a Children’s Court) and he was never presented before the Juvenile Justice Board as per the mandate of the JJ Act. 47. The accused appellant being a CICL was never subjected to preliminary assessment by the Board so as to find out whether he should be tried as an adult. Directing such an exercise at this stage would be sheer futility because now the appellant is nearly 23 years of age. 48. At this stage, there remains no realistic possibility of finding out the mental and physical capacity of the accused appellant to commit the offence or to assess his ability to understand the consequences of the offence and circumstances in which he committed the offence in the year 2016.