Factors particularly relevant to the determination of whether a party to a civil proceeding is [2024] 5 S.C.R. 901 Alifiya Husenbhai Keshariya v. Siddiq Ismail Sindhi & Ors. indigent are: (1) the party’s employment status and income, including income from government sources such as social security and unemployment benefits; (2) the ownership of any unencumbered assets, including real or personal property and monies on deposit; and finally (3) the party’s total indebtedness and any financial assistance received from family or close friends. Where two people are living together and functioning as a single economic unit, whether married, related, or otherwise, consideration of their combined financial assets may be warranted for the purposes of determining a party’s indigency status in a civil proceeding.” 7. The Code of Civil Procedure, 19084 provides for mechanism by which a person who is indigent may file a suit or an appeal. XXXIII thereof pertains to filing of suits and XLIV deals with appeals by such persons. 8. In the present matter, we are concerned with an appeal envisaged under Section 173 of the Motor Vehicle Act, 1988.5 9. Rule 1 of XLIV dealing with appeal filed as an indigent person, reads as under : “1. Who may appeal 3[as an indigent person. — Any person entitled to prefer an appeal, who is unable to pay the fee required for the memorandum of appeal, may present an application accompanied by a memorandum of appeal, and may be allowed to appeal as an indigent person, subject, in all matters, including the presentation of such application, to the provisions relating to suits by indigent persons, in so far as those provisions are applicable.” 10. The operation of the above two provisions has been noted by this Court in R.V. Dev v. Chief Secretary, Govt. of Kerala,6 in para 8 whereof it was observed : 4 Hereinafter C.P.C. 5 Hereinafter the ‘MV Act’ 6 [2007] 6 SCR 886 : (2007) 5 SCC 698 902 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “8……When an application is filed by a person said to be indigent, certain factors for considering as to whether he is so within the meaning of the said provision are required to be taken into consideration therefor. A person who is permitted to sue as an indigent person is liable to pay the court fees which would have been paid by him if he was not permitted to sue in that capacity, if he fails in the suit at the trial or without trial. Payment of court fees as the scheme suggests is merely deferred. It is not altogether wiped off.” (Emphasis supplied) In regard to the application of XXXIII of the Code, a perusal of the decision in Union Bank of India v. Khader International Construction & Ors.7 reveals the following principles : (i) It is an enabling provision for filing of a suit by an indigent person without paying the court fee at the initial stage. (ii) If the suit is decreed for the plaintiff, the court fee would be calculated as if the plaintiff had not originally filed the suit as an indigent person.