Consequently, the application under VII Rule 11 filed by the appellant was dismissed. Aggrieved, the appellant is now before us. 6. Section 83 of the RPA is reproduced below: “(1) An election petition— (a) shall contain a concise statement of the material facts on which the petitioner relies; (b) shall set forth full particulars of any corrupt practice that the petitioner alleges, including as full a statement as possible of the names of the parties alleged to have committed such corrupt practice and the date and place of the commission of each such practice; and (c) shall be signed by the petitioner and verified in the manner laid down in the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908) for the verification of pleadings: Provided that where the petitioner alleges any corrupt practice, the petition shall also be accompanied by an affidavit in the prescribed form in support of the allegation of such corrupt practice and the particulars thereof. (2) Any schedule or annexure to the petition shall also be signed by the petitioner and verified in the same manner as the petition.” (emphasis supplied) A perusal of the section shows that an Election Petition should, inter alia, contain a concise statement of material facts and particulars of any corrupt practices which is alleged against the returned candidate, etc. Further, the Proviso to Section 83(1) of the Act requires that 358 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the Election Petition shall also be accompanied by an affidavit in prescribed form to support the allegations of corrupt practices. 7. Over the years, Election Petitions have been filed invariably on the grounds which are similar to the ones raised before this Court. The only question is whether the Court can dismiss such a petition at the very threshold on an application under VII Rule 11 CPC or that the petition needs a detailed consideration by the Court. The answer to this will depend upon what kind of statutory compliances have been made in the Election Petition. The case of the present appellant before this Court is that if the provisions as referred above, wherein material details have to be given by the respondent and particularly the details of corrupt practices etc., has to be strictly construed and any deviation by the respondent on this requirement shall make the petition liable to be dismissed at the very threshold. All the same, this is not what is the requirement of law. Rather the settled position of law here is that an Election Petition should not be rejected at the very threshold where there is a “substantial compliance” of the provisions. 8. Thus, we will have to see whether “substantial compliance” of Section 83(1)(a) and 83(1)(b) has been done by the respondent. In para 15 of the Election Petition, the respondent has pleaded that construction worth approx. Rs. 2 crores has taken place on agricultural land of the appellant, however, the column for investment in land through construction has been left empty by the appellant.