Therefore, even in ideal conditions, the possibility of the trial of scheduled offences concluding even within a reasonable time of three to four years appears to be completely ruled out. 18. In the offence under the PMLA, the charge has not been framed. In view of Clause (d) of sub-section (1) of Section 44 of PMLA, the procedure for sessions trial will have to be followed for the prosecution of an offence punishable under Section 4 of the PMLA. In view of clause (c) of sub-section (1) of Section 44, it is possible to transfer the trial of the scheduled offences to the Special Court under the PMLA. 19. The offence of money laundering has been defined under Section 3 of the PMLA which reads thus: “3. Offence of money-laundering.—Whosoever directly or indirectly attempts to indulge or knowingly assists or knowingly is a party or is actually involved in any process or activity connected with the [proceeds of crime including its concealment, possession, acquisition or use and projecting or claiming] it as untainted property shall be guilty of offence of money-laundering. [Explanation.—For the removal of doubts, it is hereby clarified that,— [2024] 10 S.C.R. 403 V. Senthil Balaji v. The Deputy Director, Directorate of Enforcement (i) a person shall be guilty of offence of money-laundering if such person is found to have directly or indirectly attempted to indulge or knowingly assisted or knowingly is a party or is actually involved in one or more of the following processes or activities connected with proceeds of crime, namely:— (a) concealment; or (b) possession; or (c) acquisition; or (d) use; or (e) projecting as untainted property; or (f) claiming as untainted property, in any manner whatsoever; (ii) the process or activity connected with proceeds of crime is a continuing activity and continues till such time a person is directly or indirectly enjoying the proceeds of crime by its concealment or possession or acquisition or use or projecting it as untainted property or claiming it as untainted property in any manner whatsoever.] 20. Existence of proceeds of crime is a condition precedent for the offence under Section 3. Proceeds of crime have been defined in Section 2(u) of the PMLA which reads thus: “2 …………………………………………… (u) “proceeds of crime” means any property derived or obtained, directly or indirectly, by any person as a result of criminal activity relating to a scheduled offence or the value of any such property or where such property is taken or held outside the country, then the property equivalent in value held within the country [or abroad]; Explanation.—For the removal of doubts, it is hereby clarified that “proceeds of crime” include property not only derived or obtained from the scheduled offence but also any property which may directly or indirectly be derived or obtained as a result of any criminal activity relatable to the scheduled offence;” 404 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 21. Hence, the existence of a scheduled offence is sine qua non for alleging the existence of proceeds of crime.