He used to come to study daily from 30.06.2011 (Evidence No.09) but after verification by the special messenger, no such coaching institute was found at the address given in the certificate. This makes it clear that during the said period the accused was present in his hometown and even after the case registered against him in the Barnahal police station was in his knowledge, he joined CRPF on 30.11.2011 while filling his verification letter, he did not disclose the said case and has deliberately hidden this fact. B) From the time of joining this force and filling the verification form till now, the accused has been submitting various fake documents to protect his job (to achieve his personal interest) and has given false statements to prove himself innocent. Therefore, the accused is also accused of presenting wrong facts and making and presenting fake documents. C) During verification of the copies of police reports dated 10.10.2013, 14.11.2013 and dated 20.03.2014 issued by the police station Barnhal presented by the accused in his defence, SHO Barnhal Mainpuri declared those reports as fake and stated that these certificates were neither in his knowledge nor have the SHO signed them nor have these reports been issued by the Barnahal Mainpuri police station. Rather, this department has also been misled by the accused personnel by preparing it in a completely fake manner. Therefore, this act of the accused completely proves his criminal mentality and at present he has [2024] 7 S.C.R. 917 Union of India and Others v. Shishu Pal @ Shiv Pal presented wrong facts even during the departmental investigation. 9. It is clear from the verification certification reports of the documents submitted by the accused that the accused has either prepared or got the documentary evidence prepared in a fake manner and from the beginning of this departmental investigation till now, the accused has been presenting as per his wish from time to time during his trial and re-trial. Therefore, the facts and documents presented by the accused during the investigation are beyond veracity and cannot be trusted. Therefore, the allegation leveled against the accused in Item -1 of Clause- I is completely proved beyond any doubt.” DECISION OF THE DISCIPLINARY AUTHORITY AND APPELLATE AUTHORITY 9. The said Inquiry Report was placed before the Disciplinary Authority namely, appellant No. 3 – Commandant, 149 Battalion who observed that while filling his character and antecedent Verification Roll at the time of his appointment, the respondent had deliberately concealed registration of two cases against him namely, Criminal Case No. 459/2011 and Criminal Case No. 537/2011 and submitted photocopies of fake documents purportedly issued by various authorities. As a result, an was passed directing the respondent to be removed from service forthwith. 10. Aggrieved by the dismissal dated 24th June, 2014, passed by the Disciplinary Authority, the respondent preferred an appeal before the Appellate Authority namely, appellant No. 2 - Deputy Inspector General, CRPF Group Centre, Silchar, Assam which was also rejected vide dated 23rd September, 2014 observing that the punishment of removal from service imposed upon him was proportionate to the severity of his crime.