b) If the answer to the aforementioned question is in negative, whether the mandatory procedure contemplated under Section 5A has been complied with in the instant case? 14. Before delving into these specific issues, it would be worthwhile to briefly discuss the construction and import of Section 5A of the 1894 Act. 15. The 1894 Act embodies the State’s power of eminent domain, bestowing the sovereign right to appropriate private property for the public good. However, since the Right to Property is a significant Constitutional Right under Article 300A and losing one’s land has grave repercussions for a landowner, the 1894 Act also contains various provisions to compress the State’s power of expropriation from becoming a source of exploitation. One of such salient features is Section 5A, which inter alia provides thus: “5-A. Hearing of objections.—(1) Any person interested in any land which has been notified under Section 4, sub- section (1), as being needed or likely to be needed for a public purpose or for a Company may, within thirty days from the date of the publication of the notification, object to the acquisition of the land or of any land in the locality, as the case may be. (2) Every objection under sub-section (1) shall be made to the Collector in writing, and the Collector shall give the objector an opportunity of being heard in person or by any [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1015 New Okhla Industrial Development Authority v. Darshan Lal Bohra & Ors. person authorised by him in this behalf or by pleader and shall, after hearing all such objections and after making such further inquiry, if any, as he thinks necessary, either make a report in respect of the land which has been notified under Section 4, sub-section (1), or make different reports in respect of different parcels of such land, to the appropriate Government, containing his recommendations on the objections, together with the record of the proceedings held by him, for the decision of that Government. The decision of the appropriate Government on the objections shall be final. (3) For the purposes of this section, a person shall he deemed to be interested in land who would be entitled to claim an interest in compensation if the land were acquired under this Act.” 16. It may be seen from the plain language of Section 5A that it manifests the cardinal principle of audi alteram partem, and obligates the Collector to hear the person whose land is being compulsorily acquired by the State. This provision serves as a crucial safeguard, enabling the landowners to challenge the arbitrary acquisition and demonstrate the absence of ‘public purpose’ or presence of mala fide motive. Considering its vital importance, there are a string of decisions by this Court affirming that Section 5A is a mandatory provision with the flavour of fundamental rights.10 17. Section 5A was not originally a part of the 1894 Act. It was introduced later by the Land Acquisition (Amendment) Act, 1923, to rectify the defect pointed out in case of J.E.D.