The Parliament rejected legislative proposals to totally exempt Muslims from Section 125 of the CrPC and after extensive discussion, the Parliament enacted the 1986 Act. The preamble of the 1986 Act reads as under: “An Act to protect the rights of Muslim women who have been divorced by, or have obtained divorce from, their husbands and to provide for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.” 1284 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 18. The Statement of Objects and Reasons of the 1986 Act manifests the Parliament’s intent to clarify the controversy emerging from the in Shah Bano regarding the obligation of the Muslim husband to pay maintenance to a divorced wife. It underlines that the Parliament was taking the opportunity to ‘specify the rights’ of a Muslim divorced woman so as to protect her interests. The Bill of the said Act specified rights vis à vis a Muslim divorced woman who shall be entitled to the following: i. Reasonable and fair provision and maintenance for the woman within the period of iddat; ii. Reasonable provisions and maintenance for the children born to her before or after her divorce extended to a period of two years from the dates of birth of the children; iii. Mahr or dower and all the properties given to her by her relatives, friends, husband or the husband’s relatives, if the above benefits are not given to her at the time of divorce. In the eventuality that a Muslim divorced woman was unable to maintain herself after the iddat period, it was specified that she shall be entitled to: i. Maintenance by her relatives who would be entitled to inherit her property on her death according to Muslim law in the proportions in which they would inherit her property. ii. If any one of such relatives is unable to pay his or her share on the ground of his or her not having the means to pay, the other relatives who have sufficient means shall pay the shares of these relatives also. iii. If a divorced woman has no relatives or if such relatives are unable to provide maintenance then the State Wakf Board shall pay maintenance ed by the Magistrate. 19. Sections 3 and 4 of the 1986 Act which deal with the aforesaid aspects are extracted hereunder: “3. Mahr or other properties of Muslim woman to be given to her at the time of divorce.—(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, a divorced woman shall be entitled to— [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1285 Mohd. Abdul Samad v. The State of Telangana & Anr. (a) a reasonable and fair provision and maintenance to be made and paid to her within the iddat period by her former husband; (b) where she herself maintains the children born to her before or after her divorce, a reasonable and fair provision and maintenance to be made and paid by her former husband for a period of two years from the respective dates of birth of such children; (c) an amount equal to the sum of mahr or dower agreed to be paid to her at the time of her marriage or at any time thereafter according to Muslim law; and (d) all the properties given to her before or at the time of marriage or after her marriage by her relatives or friends or the husband or any relatives of the husband or his friends.