Inability on the part of the state’s police machinery to tackle the law and situation should not be an excuse to invoke the jurisdiction of preventive detention. 32. The crucial issue is whether the activities of the detenu were prejudicial to public . While the expression ‘law and ’ is wider in scope inasmuch as contravention of law always affects , ‘Public ’ has a narrower ambit, and could be affected by only such contravention, which affects the community or the public at large. Public is the even tempo of life of the community taking the country as a whole or even a specified locality. The distinction between the areas of ‘law and ’ and ‘public ’ is one of degree and extent of the reach, of the act in question on society. It is the potentiality of the act to disturb the even tempo of life of the community which makes it prejudicial to the maintenance of the public . If a contravention in its effect is confined only to a few individuals directly involved as distinct from a wide spectrum of public, it could raise problem of law and only. In other words, the true distinction between the areas of law and and public lies not merely in the nature or quality of the act, but in the degree and extent of its reach upon society. Acts similar in nature, but committed in different contexts and circumstances, might cause different reactions. In one case it might affect specific individuals only, and therefore touches the problem of law and only, while in another it might affect public . The act by itself, therefore, is not determinant of its own gravity. In its quality it may not differ from other similar acts, but in its potentiality, that is, in its impact on society, it may be very different. [See: Union of India v. Amrit Lal Manchanda, (2004) 3 SCC 75.] 33. We have noticed over a period of time that in reports sponsoring preventive detention the officers concerned rely on statements of few 1212 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports individuals residing in the concerned locality so as to project existence of an atmosphere of panic or fear in the minds of the people residing in that locality. While recording such statements, the individuals concerned are assured that their identity would not be disclosed so that the maker of the statement may not get into any difficulty. Some of the State enactments relating to preventive detention, for instance, Section 9 of the Gujarat Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Act, 1985, empower the Detaining Authority not to disclose facts which it considers to be against the public interest. In the case on hand, there is nothing to indicate that any such statements of people, more particularly the women of the concerned locality, were recorded so as to arrive at the subjective satisfaction that the nefarious activities of the detenu created an atmosphere of panic and fear in the minds of the people of the concerned locality.