It held that the definition is wide enough to bring all goods which are used for providing any output service. 10.9.12 Applying the functional utility test, the Delhi High Court held that if an item is required for providing output service by the service provider on a commercial scale, the test would be satisfied. It was held that in the present case, the BTS is an integrated system and each of its components have to work in tandem with one another in to provide the required connectivity to the cellular phone users and for efficient telecommunication services and because of these utility and functions, these items would be considered to be “inputs” within the ambit of Rule 2(k) of the CENVAT Rules. 10.9.13 As regards the question as to whether the CESTAT erred in applying the nexus test with reference to MS angles and channels, the Delhi High Court found fault with the finding of the CESTAT that there was no nexus between the input and output service and held that CESTAT had erroneously ignored the decision of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in the case of M/s Indus Towers Ltd. vs. CTU, Hyderabad, 2012 SCC OnLine AP 628 which held that towers and shelters are indeed used and are integrally connected to the rendition of telecommunication services. The channels, which according to the Assessee, were in fact towers, shelters and accessories, were bought and brought to the site in CKD/SKD condition and put to use for mounting/installing telecommunication antenna and other equipment for providing output telecom services. However, the Revenue contended that these goods were used for assembling towers and shelters and do not fall within the definition of Rule 2(a)(A) i.e. “capital goods” and that these are items falling under Chapter 73 and the same is not included in Rule 2(a)(A) of the CENVAT Rules. 10.9.14 The Delhi High Court accepted the plea of the Assessee by invoking the nexus test as enunciated in [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1557 M/s Bharti Airtel Ltd. v. The Commissioner of Central Excise, Pune Collector of Central Excise vs. Hyundai Unitech Electrical Transmission Ltd. (2015) 17 SCC 181 and took the view that MS angles and channels have gone into making towers and shelters which in turn are used for providing infra- support services/telecom services and hence are amenable to CENVAT credit. 10.9.15 Coming to the fourth question framed by the Delhi High Court as to whether the Assessee could claim CENVAT credit on receipt of such towers and shelters at their premises, which the CESTAT had denied on the ground that upon installation, towers and shelters become immovable property and hence are not eligible for CENVAT credit as “inputs”. The Delhi High Court, however, accepted the plea of the Assessee that Rule 4(1) of the CENVAT Rules allows credit on inputs on receipt in the premises of the output service provider. 10.9.16 The Delhi High Court ruled in favour of the Assessee that it is entitled to the credit immediately on receiving the inputs irrespective of the subsequent treatment i.e.