There can be three situations that may result from such limited role of the proper officer: • The proper officer accepts the self-assessed duty without verification of such duty under sub-section (2) of the new Section 17, • The proper officer accepts the self-assessed duty after verifying the same in accordance with sub-sections (2) and (3) of the new Section 17, • The proper officer does not accept the self-assessed duty after verifying the same in accordance with sub-sections (2) and (3) of the new Section 17, in which case, the re-assessment of duty will be undertaken by the proper officer as per sub-sections (4) and (5) of the new Section 17. In the first two cases, the scope of the function of the proper officer is limited. Such proper officer is not entitled to exercise the function of the assessment of duty, which is a noteworthy deviation from the earlier procedure. The proper officer is entitled to exercise his or her functions of re-assessment of duty only if the verification process shows that the self-assessment done by the assessee was incorrect. (c) Condition precedent for re-assessment: It is worthwhile to note that the old Section 17 allowed for self-assessment of duty, only under sub-section (4) and that too with the permission of the proper officer. However, upon a subsequent finding that the statements made by the assessee were not true, the proper officer was entitled to re-assess the duty so levied. Therefore, 276 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports re-assessment was allowed under both the old and the new Section 17 only after a self-assessment by the assessee. The only point of difference with respect to re-assessment is that self-assessment was not a matter of course prior to the amendment and was possible only upon the proper officer permitting for the same. After 08.04.2011, self-assessment is ipso jure the procedure and has replaced the assessment process previously undertaken by the proper officer. (d) Scheme of Section 17(5): The old Section 17(5) requires the proper officer to provide a speaking within 15 days of the date of assessment of duty if the same is contrary to the claim of the assessee or is not accepted in writing by the assessee. The new Section 17(5) is analogous to the old sub-section (5) except that it requires a speaking within 15 days from the date of the “re-assessment” of duty. Such change shows the legislative intent to transfer the process of “assessment” under the old Section 17 to the stage of “re-assessment” under the new Section 17 and replace the “assessment” to be done by the proper officer under the old Section 17 with the process of “self-assessment”. 90. These changes highlight that the competence of the proper officer to conduct “assessment” is completely taken away by the legislature vide the amendment to Section 17. The new Section 17 empowers the proper officer to perform the functions of verification of self- assessment and subsequent re-assessment, if found necessary. However, such re-assessment is not a mandatory function on the same footing as “assessment” under the old Section 17.