Under the terms of the Credit Agreement, the Corporate Debtor acted as a guarantor and issued a guarantee deed dated 24 November 2021 in favour of the appellant. ii. Proceedings before the Delaware Court 6. On account of an alleged default under the Credit Agreement, the appellant enforced the security in respect of the loan and took a series of steps that resulted in the removal of all pre-existing directors of Byju’s Alpha Inc., including Riju Raveendran and the appointment of a new sole director. The appellant contends that despite these measures, defaults persisted in payment of the principal outstanding amount and the interest accrued under the Credit Agreement. 7 “Corporate Debtor” 8 “Credit Agreement” [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1811 GLAS Trust Company LLC v. BYJU Raveendran & Ors. 7. Accordingly, the appellant, acting as the Administrative Agent of the lenders, issued a notice of demand dated 6 December 2023 to the Corporate Debtor, invoking the guarantee deed and demanding that the Corporate Debtor pay the requisite amount. However, it is the case of the appellant, that the Corporate Debtor too defaulted in its capacity as the guarantor under the Credit Agreement. 8. It is contended that a series of wire transfers were carried out in April and July 2022 by Byju’s Alpha Inc., allegedly at the behest of the Corporate Debtor, fraudulently transferring approximately USD 533 million to a hedge fund based in the United States. A motion for preliminary injunctive relief to protect this amount was moved before the United States Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware.9 9. On 18 March 2024, the Delaware Court issued a preliminary injunction inter alia restraining Riju Raveendran, another wholly owned subsidiary of the Corporate Debtor, the concerned hedge fund, and other similarly placed persons from taking any steps to spend, transfer, exchange, convert, dissipate, liquidate, or otherwise move or modify any rights related to the USD 533 million transferred from Byju’s Alpha Inc to the hedge fund. The operative directions of the passed by the Delaware Court read as follows: “Defendants Riju Ravindran, Inspilearn LLC (“Inspilearn”), Camshaft Capital Fund LP, Camshaft Capital Advisors, LLC, Camshaft Capital Management, LLC; and any of such parties’ officers, agents, servants, employees, and attorneys, and any other persons who are in active concert or participation with the foregoing, including, Byju Raveendran and Divya Gokulnath (collectively, the “Enjoined Parties”) are immediately enjoined, upon entry of this , from taking any steps to spend, transfer, exchange, convert, dissipate, liquidate, or otherwise move or modify any rights related to: (i) the funds that in the approximate amount of $533,000, I00.00 transferred from the Debtor to Camshaft Capital Fund, LP in April and July 2022, (ii) the funds (or other assets) transferred to and/or redeemed by a non-U.S. 9 “Delaware Court” 1812 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports trust on behalf of lnspilearn on or about February 1, 2024, and (iii) the funds (or other assets) that were purportedly subsequently transferred to a “non-US based 100% subsidiary of BYJU’S,” along with any associated accrued interest or proceeds, in each case ((i), (ii), and (iii) collectively, the “Alpha Funds”).” (emphasis supplied) 10.