The employee was initially appointed as Junior Engineer (Electronics and Communication)5 by the management on 07.06.1997 and was subsequently, confirmed in the said post on 13.07.1998. He was thereafter promoted to the post of Assistant Engineer (E&C) with effect from 01.05.2000 and was regularised in the said post with effect from 01.05.2001. While so, he was relieved from service on 08.10.2003, by paying a sum of Rs.6,995.65 towards one month salary in lieu of notice. Aggrieved by the same, he approached the Labour authorities, who referred the matter for conciliation. After failure of the conciliation and based on the opinion of the appropriate authority that an industrial dispute exists between the parties, a reference was made, which culminated in I.D. Case No.27 of 2007, in which, the Labour Court passed an award on 22.09.2010, reinstating the employee in service along with compensation of Rs.75,000/- in lieu of back wages, after having held that the employee was a “workman” in terms of section 2(s) of the I.D. Act. Challenging the same, the management filed the aforesaid writ petition, which was partly allowed by the High Court, in the terms as already stated in paragraph 2 supra. Therefore, the present Civil Appeals by both the parties. 5. The learned senior counsel appearing for the employee contended that the employee falls within the ambit of “workman” as per section 2(s) of the Act; he was terminated by the management without any reason; he was not given any opportunity before such termination nor there was any contract of service that his services will be terminated on 08.10.2003; and thus, there was a clear violation of provision of law in terminating the services of the employee. Taking note of the 4 For short, “the I.D. Act” 5 For short, “E&C” [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2307 Lenin Kumar Ray v. M/s Express Publications (Madurai) Ltd. same, the Labour Court rightly passed the award in setting aside such illegal termination and directing the management to reinstate the employee in service. Without properly appreciating the same, the High Court set aside the part of the award viz., direction to the management to reinstate the employee in service with payment of lumpsum compensation in lieu of back wages, by the impugned herein, which will have to be set aside. 6. Drawing our attention to the s of this Court compiled in the form of typed set of papers, the learned senior counsel for the employee made the following submissions: (i) In Industrial Law, interpreted and applied in the perspective of Part IV of the Constitution, the benefit of reasonable doubt on law and facts, if there be such doubt, must go to the weaker section, Labour;6 (ii) Concurrent findings of facts rendered by the Courts below cannot be interfered with by the writ Court;7 (iii) The determining factor for a person to be qualified as “workman” as defined under section 2(s) of the I.D. Act is the nature of work done by him and not merely on the designation of his post.8 Whether or not an employee is a “workman” under section 2(s) of the I.D.