Supreme Court Reports the Subsequent Transferee was neither arrayed as a party to the proceedings in the Main Appeals nor issued a notice of the said proceedings either by the petitioner or by the Bank, despite the fact that they were aware of the transactions entered into by the Borrower for the transfer of the Secured Asset in its favour. He further submitted that prior to entering into the transaction there was no prohibitory or interim of stay concerning the said Secured Asset either by this Court or any other court. Since, the transaction which led to the purchase of the said property by it was completed and duly registered with the knowledge and cooperation of the Bank before the decision of this Court in the Main Appeals, they are neither in breach or violation of this Court’s decision and as such the present contempt proceedings deserves to be dismissed qua the Respondent. It was further submitted that the title to the Secured Asset in favour of the Subsequent Transferee was never questioned or challenged before any forum or impeached in any manner known to law even after the decision of this Court in the Main Appeals. 83. He further submitted that when the Subsequent Transferee tendered the entire consideration for the Secured Asset, there was admittedly neither any lis pendens in respect of the property registered as per due diligence conducted on its behalf nor had the petitioner acquired any rights to the said property. He submitted that as per the State amendment to Section 52 of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882 (for short, the “TPA”) lis pendens will not apply if a notice is not registered. He submitted that the consequence of this omission in registration would be that lis pendens will not apply. 84. Since, in the present case admittedly there was no registration of lis pendens by the petitioner as mandated in Maharashtra under the mandatory provisions of Section 52 (1) of TPA, the Subsequent Transferee did not come across any legal impediment or restrictions or prohibitions to purchase of the Secured Asset and accordingly paid the consideration to lawfully acquire the same as a bona-fide purchaser. 85. He submitted that even if lis pendens is assumed to apply then too, it cannot affect the Assignment Agreement in its favour as the matter was neither sub-judice as against it nor was there any prohibitory/ stay for the transfer of the said property at the time of execution [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1657 Celir LLP v. Mr. Sumati Prasad Bafna & Ors. of the aforesaid Assignment Agreement. It was submitted that the aforesaid agreement was a lawful transaction pursuant to the High Court’s and that mere filing of an appeal does not operate as a stay or suspension of the appealed against as held in Krishna Sales (supra). Therefore, the Subsequent Transferee is said to have acquired a clear title to the said property. 86. When the Borrower redeemed the mortgage and executed the Release Deed with the Bank in pursuance of the impugned of the High Court, the Bank relinquished its charge over the property and the very contractual relationship of secured creditor and borrower extinguished and as such the Bank had no authority to transfer any interest in the Secured Asset to the petitioner at the relevant time.