Further, Part IV XLVII of the Supreme Court Rules, 2013 deals with the review and consists of five rules. Rule 1 is relevant for our purposes. It reads as under: “1. The Court may review its or , but no application for review will be entertained in a civil proceeding except on the ground mentioned in 47 Rule 1 of the Code and in a criminal proceeding except on the ground of an error apparent on the face of the record.” 59. XLVII Rule 1(1) of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 provides for an application for review which reads as under: “1. Application for review of . — Any person considering himself aggrieved— (a) by a decree or from which an appeal is allowed, but from which no appeal has been preferred, (b) by a decree or from which no appeal is allowed, or (c) by a decision on a reference from a Court of Small Causes, and who, from the discovery of new and important matter or evidence which, after the exercise of due diligence, was not within his knowledge or could not be produced by him at the time when the decree was passed or made, or on account of some mistake or error apparent on the face of the record, or for any other sufficient reason, desires to obtain a review of the decree passed or made against him, may apply for a review of to the court which passed the decree or made the .” 60. Thus, in view of the above, the following grounds of review are maintainable as stipulated by the statute: (i) Discovery of new and important matter or evidence which, after the exercise of due diligence, was not within the knowledge [2024] 12 S.C.R. 253 Commissioner of Customs v. M/s Canon India Pvt. Ltd. of the petitioner or could not be produced by him at the time when the decree was passed or made; (ii) Mistake or error apparent on the face of the record; or (iii) Any other sufficient reason. 61. The words “any other sufficient reason” have been interpreted by the Privy Council in the case of Chhajju Ram v. Neki reported in 1922 SCC OnLine PC 11 and approved by this Court in Moran Mar Basselios Catholicos v. Mar Poulose Athanasius reported in 1954 SCC OnLine SC 49 to mean a reason sufficient on grounds, at least analogous to those specified in the rule. 62. In the case of Tinkari Sen v. Dulal Chandra Das reported in 1966 SCC OnLine Cal 103, the Calcutta High Court held that if the court overlooks or fails to consider a legal provision that grants it the authority to act in a specific manner, this may amount to an error analogous to one apparent on the face of the record. Such an oversight would fall within the scope of XLVII, Rule 1 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 which allows for reviews. Relevant parts are extracted below: “18. Consider, in this context, Sir Hari Sankar Pal v. Anath Nath Mitter, AIR 1949 FC 106.