In K. Kalpana Saraswathi Vs. P.S.S. Somasundaram Chettiar,6 this Court held that on an oral prayer made by the counsel for the plaintiff for permission to deposit the entire amount as directed by the trial court this Court directed the appellant to deposit the amount within six months from that date together with interest and other conditions mentioned therein. An application for extension of time for payment of balance consideration may be filed even in the court of first instance or in the appellate court in the same suit as the decree of the trial court stands merged with that of the appellate court which decree is under execution. It is to be seen that the procedure is the handmaid for justice and unless the procedure touches upon jurisdictional issue, it should be moulded to subserve substantial justice. Therefore, technicalities would not stand in the way to subserve substantive justice. Take a 5 37. Definition of the court which passed a decree – The expression “Court which passed a decree”, or words to that effect, shall, in relation to the execution of decrees, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context, be deemed to include- (a) Where the decree to be executed has been passed in the exercise of appellate jurisdiction, the Court of first instance, and (b) Where the court of first instance has ceased to exist or to have jurisdiction to execute it, the Court which, if the suit wherein the decree was passed was instituted at the time of making the application for the execution of the decree, would have jurisdiction to try such suit. 6 [1980] 2 SCR 293 : (1980) 1 SCC 630 10 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports case where the decree is transferred for execution to a transferee executing court, then certainly the transferee court is not the original court and execution court is not the “same court” within the meaning of Section 28 of the Act. But when an application has been made in the court in which the original suit was filed and the execution is being proceeded with, then certainly an application under Section 28 is maintainable in the same Court.” (Emphasis supplied) 17. Following the view taken in Ramankutty Guptan (Supra), in V.S. Palanichamy Chettiar Firm Vs. C. Alagappan and Anr.7 this Court held: “16. In view of the decision of this Court in Ramankutty Guptan case when the trial court and the executing court are the same, the executing court can entertain the application for extension of time though the application is to be treated as one filed in the same suit. On the same analogy, the vendor -debtor can also seek rescission of the contract of sale or take up this plea in defence to bar the execution of the decree. ………….” (Emphasis supplied) 18. Having regard to the aforesaid decisions, in our view, the expression “may apply in the same suit in which the decree is made” as used in Section 28 of the 1963 Act must be accorded an expansive meaning so as to include the court of first instance even though the decree under execution is passed by the appellate court.