Observing so, the learned Single Judge proceeded to hold that the dated 7th April, 2022 passed by the learned Chief Judge, City Sessions Court, Calcutta and all subsequent s passed by the learned Chief Metropolitan Magistrate were illegal and inoperative and hence the same were quashed. 22. The frontal issue which falls for our consideration is as to whether the Chief Judge, City Sessions Court, Calcutta had the jurisdiction to pass the dated 7th April, 2022. 650 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 23. We would like to refer to sub-section (1) and sub-section (3) of Section 22 of the NIA Act which is germane to the controversy and is being reproduced hereinbelow:- “22. Power of State Government to designate Court of Session as Special Courts- (1) The State Government may [designate one or more Courts of Session as] Special Courts for the trial of offences under any or all the enactments specified in the Schedule. (2) …. (3) The jurisdiction conferred by this Act on a Special Court shall, until a Special Court is [designated] by the State Government under sub-section (1) in the case of any offence punishable under this Act, notwithstanding anything contained in the Code, be exercised by the Court of Session of the division in which such offence has been committed and it shall have all the powers and follow the procedure provided under this Chapter. (4) ….” 24. A bare perusal of sub-section (3) of Section 22 of NIA Act would make it clear that until a Special Court is constituted by the State Government under sub-Section (1) of Section 22, in case of registration of any offence punishable under UAPA, the Court of Sessions of the division, in which the offence has been committed, would have the jurisdiction as conferred by the Act on a Special Court and a fortiori, it would have all the powers to follow the procedure provided under Chapter IV of the NIA Act. 25. Admittedly, the present case involves investigation by the State police, and therefore, the provisions of Section 22 would be applicable insofar as the issue of jurisdiction of the Court to try the offences is concerned. 26. Learned counsel for the respondent relied upon Gazette Notification dated 29th April, 2011 in to canvass that the Special Court had already been constituted for trial of UAPA offences within the State of West Bengal. [2024] 4 S.C.R. 651 The State of West Bengal v. Jayeeta Das 27. A bare perusal of the said notification would make it clear that the Special Court was constituted by the “Central Government” in exercise of the power conferred by sub-section (1) of Section 11 of the NIA Act. 28. The State Government has been given exclusive power delegated by virtue of Section 22(1) of the Act (reproduced supra) to constitute one or more Special Courts for trial of offences under any or all the enactments specified in the Schedule. 29. It is not in dispute that the State of West Bengal has so far not exercised the power conferred upon it by Section 22 of the NIA Act for constituting a Special Court for trial of offences set out in the Schedule to the NIA Act and hence, the Sessions Court within whose jurisdiction, the offence took place which would be the Chief Judge cum City Sessions Court in the case at hand, had the power and jurisdiction to deal with the case by virtue of the sub-section (3) of Section 22 of the NIA Act.