In cross-examination, the witness (PW-4) admitted that they found the teakwood in the saw-mill which was owned by a lady who did not come to the spot when the proceedings were undertaken. The name of the saw-mill was Malikarjun saw-mill. It may be noted that the appellant (AO1) has fervently contended that the second panch witness, M. Ashok was actually the owner of the saw-mill and is the same person in whose name the panchnama was prepared on 6th January, 2003. It is the contention of the appellant (AO1) that the entire trap proceedings were orchestrated at the behest of the said M. Ashok. 40. G. Santosh Kumar (PW-5) being the Divisional Forest Officer, Vigilance was examined to narrate the procedural aspects pertaining to the duties [2024] 7 S.C.R. 659 Mir Mustafa Ali Hasmi v. The State of A.P. of the Forest Section Officers etc. In cross-examination, the witness (PW-5) admitted that he had not been shown any records relating to the case. He feigned total ignorance about the instant ACB case. 41. B. Arun Madhav (PW-6) being the Nodal officer of Idea Cellular Limited proved the call detail records (CDR) of the cell phones held by the appellant (AO1)and AO2. It is clearly borne out from his evidence and the call detail records (Exhibit P-14 and P-15) that no calls were exchanged between the appellant (AO1) and the complainant (PW-1) after 17th January, 2023. Thus, it becomes crystal clear that the case setup by the complainant (PW-1) that the appellant (AO1) regularly called him right up to the date of the filing of the complaint (Exhibit P-1) and also gave him instructions over mobile to come to the Hotel Quality-Inn for paying the bribe (mamool) is nothing but a sheer piece of concoction. The call detail records (CDR) completely demolish the case setup by the complainant (PW-1) in this regard. 42. M.A. Waheeda (PW-9) being the Divisional Forest Officer, Kothagudam was examined by the prosecution to narrate about the procedure prevailing in the forest department. He stated that on 6th January, 2003, the appellant (AO1) had booked a case at a saw-mill in Vanasthalipuram and collected a sum of Rs. 50,000/- towards the fine. He deposited this amount with the department. 43. It is thus clear that once the appellant (AO1) had collected the compounding fees and deposited the same in the department and hence, there remained no rhyme or reason for him to have handed over the very same set of seizure documents to the complainant (PW-1) at the time of payment of bribe. The compounding fee already having been entered in the records of the department, the destruction of the memoranda etc. would not be of any help to the complainant (PW-1). 44. G. Ramachander (PW-10) being the DySP, ACB registered the FIR and conducted the trap proceedings. Upon perusal of his examination- in-chief, it transpires that the officer never instructed the accompanying witness (PW-2) to come with the complainant (PW-1) to the ACB office on 23rd January, 2003.