749) defines it as: - “something which is prohibited by law” (Emphasis supplied) 1112 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 62. Thus, in its plain meaning, the use of words “capable” and “imposed by law” shows that the term “charge” means something which in the eyes of law is permissible and payable, and therefore the term “overcharge” which is a conjunction of “over” and “charge” would mean something more than or beyond what is payable in the eyes of law. Same way, an “illegal charge” would mean a charge which is contrary to the law or lacks the authority of law or simplicter is unlawful. 63. L.P. Singh and P.K. Majumdar’s ‘Judicial Dictionary’ (2nd Edn., 2005 at pg. 888) defines ‘over-charge’ in the context of Section 106 of the Act, 1989 as follows: – “The expressions “charge” and “over charge” are properly employed only with reference to actual quantum of liability, and they cannot be applied to relate to rates of charges. There will be an over charge if Railway applies higher rate than appropriate and there can also be an over charge where even at a rate which itself is not open to objection, there is yet an excessive liability foisted by the railway. It is not possible to restrict the expression over charge only to former kind of cases where the railway applies a higher rate than that which the law allows.” (Emphasis supplied) 64. Thus, in the context of Section 106 sub-section (3) of the Act, 1989, an “overcharge” would be any sum which has been paid in excess or over and above or more than what was payable by law / required by law. It pertains to only the actual quantum of liability. Furthermore, merely, because an incorrect or rather higher slab-rate has been applied, will not make it an illegal charge, as long as the charge was not itself open to objection i.e., not incorrect. 65. It is pertinent to note, that the term “payable by law” should not be conflated with the term “permissible by law”, this is because although something maybe paid in excess than what was required by law, yet the same would by no means automatically become an “overcharge”. This is further fortified from the fact that, “charge” as above-stated is defined to mean something which is either required OR demanded to be paid. [2024] 3 S.C.R. 1113 Union of India v. M/s Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. 66. For illustration; say ‘A’ booked certain goods to be carried by railway, and the railway charged ‘A’ loading charges for the goods, even- though, there was no loading of goods involved. Here, although the law allows railway to levy loading charges i.e., the loading charges are permissible by law, and even-though the sum paid by ‘A’ towards loading charges can be said to be in excess of what was required (i.e., in excess of Nil loading charges as no loading was involved), this would not be an “overcharge” but would be an “illegal charge”.