If such an approach was found to be feasible, the parameters used for flagging such cases (such as abnormal score patterns) were required to be placed on record. 15. Fourth, NTA was required to make submissions on the decision to be taken on the status of counselling, in view of the potential exercise to be conducted by NTA or the Union Government to identify further beneficiaries of the leak of the question paper. 16. Finally, the government was required to apprise the Court of the steps which were being taken to ensure that the sanctity of the NEET was not compromised in future iterations and issues similar to the ones which arose in 2024 are not repeated in the future. The Court was of the opinion that this was essential because the students who appeared for the examination and whose careers hung in the balance must have confidence in the process. The Court observed that the government must consider constituting a multi-disciplinary committee with experts which could recommend measures to obviate breaches of the NEET as well as other exams conducted by NTA. If such a committee had already been constituted, the Court was to be apprised of its composition to enable it to consider whether the composition ought to be strengthened. 17. The Union of India as well as NTA filed affidavits complying with the above directions. The Ministry of Education requested IIT Madras to undertake comprehensive data analytics on the NEET results of 2024. The report submitted by IIT Madras was also tendered to the Court. 60 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 18. On 18 July 2024, this Court heard detailed arguments from Mr. Narendra Hooda, senior counsel for the petitioners, on the various issues arising for consideration in this matter. The Solicitor General appearing for the Union of India and Mr. Naresh Kaushik, senior counsel for NTA, also addressed the Court on certain aspects of the case. Other counsel on behalf of the petitioners and intervenors were heard. 19. The Court was of the opinion that it would subserve the principle of transparency if the results were published by NTA and made available to the public at large. Accordingly, it directed NTA to publish the city-wise and centre-wise results of candidates on its website after anonymising them, by 12 noon on 20 July 2024. Further, the Bihar Police was directed to apprise the Court of the material collected by it before the investigation was transferred to CBI. These directions were complied with. 20. On 22 July 2024, counsel for one of the petitioners advanced submissions inter alia on whether the approach adopted by NTA towards one of the questions in the examination was proper. The contours of this issue are delineated in detail in subsequent segments of this . As one of the sub-issues concerned the correct answer to the question, the Court sought an expert opinion from the Indian Institute of Technology,6 Delhi. The Director of IIT, Delhi was requested to constitute a team of three experts to determine the correct answer to the question and communicate its opinion to the Court by 12 noon on the following day.