From the circumstances discussed above, a reasonable doubt is created in the mind of the Court that the statement of Demistalkumar (PW-12) would definitely have been recorded in the daily diary (roznamcha) but his version may not have suited the prosecution case and that is why, the daily diary entry was never brought on record. Non-production of the daily diary is a serious omission on part of the prosecution. 21. There cannot be any doubt that the first version of the incident as narrated by the Police Constable, Demistalkumar (PW-12) would be required to be treated as the FIR and the complaint lodged by Mohammad Arif Memon (PW-11) would be relegated to the category of a statement under Section 161 CrPC and nothing beyond that. The same could not have been treated to be the FIR as it would be hit by Section 162 CrPC. Evidently thus, the prosecution is guilty of 364 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports concealing the initial version from the Court and hence, an adverse inference deserves to be drawn against the prosecution on this count. 22. The FIR (Exhibit-79) was registered on the basis of the oral statement of the first informant (PW-11) recorded at Krishna Medical Hospital, Karamsad by S.N. Ghori, PSI (PW-17). The witness (PW-17) stated in cross-examination that Demistalkumar (PW-12) met him at the police station at around 2:30 am on 5th May, 2011. No information about the incident was received at the police chowki. He came to know at about 10:00 pm that some cognizable offence had been committed. The said information was based on a wardhi received from the hospital which was issued by Dr. Varun Patel. On receiving this wardhi, he proceeded to the Krishna Medical Hosptial, Karamsad at about 10:00 pm where he met the first informant. He stayed at the hospital for about one and a half hours. The witness, S.N. Ghori, PSI (PW-17) also admitted that the complainant did not mention in the complaint that he had received any injuries in the incident. Thus, there is a huge cloud of suspicion on the very threshold of the prosecution case i.e. the time and manner of lodging of the FIR (Exhibit-79). 23. Demistalkumar (PW-12) was also made to identify the accused persons in the dock, but that is another story which we shall consider at a later stage. The witness identified the accused appellants as the offenders. However, we find that the lame attempt by PW-12 to make dock identification of the accused in his deposition recorded after nearly two and a half years of the incident is absolutely flimsy and unacceptable. The witness had not given out either the names or the description of the features of the accused in his police statement and thus, if at all, the prosecution was desirous of getting the accused identified at the hands of this witness, then he should have been made to identify the accused persons in a Test Identification Parade during the investigation. Thus, the identification of the accused by Demistalkumar (PW-12) for the first time in the dock is totally unbelievable and unacceptable.