9.3 The relevant clauses of the PPA are reproduced for ready reference: “Article 2.1: Conditions Precedent The obligations of BESCOM and the SPD under this Agreement are conditional upon the occurrence of the following in full within 365 days from the effective date. 2.1.1 (i)The SPD shall obtain all permits, clearances and approvals (whether Statutory or otherwise) as required to execute and operate the Protect hereinafter referred to as “Approvals”): (ii) The Conditions Precedent required to be satisfied by the SPD shall be deemed to have been fulfilled when the SPD shall submit: a. The DPR to BESCOM and achieve financial closure and provide a certificate to BESCOM from the lead banker to this effect; [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1039 Bangalore Electricity Supply Company Limited v. Hirehalli Solar Power Project LLP & Others b. All Consents, Clearances and Permits required for supply of power to BESCOM as per the terms of this Agreement; and c. Power evacuation approval from Karnataka Power Transmission Company Limited or BESCOM, as the case maybe. 2.1.2 SPD shall make all reasonable endeavors to satisfy the Conditions Precedent within the time stipulated and BESCOM shall provide to the SPD all the reasonable cooperation as may be required to the SPD for satisfying the Conditions Precedent. 2.1.3 The SPD shall notify BESCOM in writing at least once a month on the progress made in satisfying the Conditions Precedent. The date, on which the SPD fulfills any of the Conditions Precedent pursuant to Clause 2.1.1, it shall promptly notify BESCOM of the same.” “Article 2.2: Damages for delay by the SPD: “2.2.1 In the event that the SPD does not fulfill any or all of the Conditions Precedent set forth in Clause 2.1 within the period of 365 days and the delay has not occurred for any reasons attributable to BESCOM or due to Force Majeure, the SPD shall pay to BESCOM damages in an amount calculated at the rate of 0.2% (zero point two per cent) of the Performance Security for each day’s delay until the fulfillment of such Conditions Precedent, subject to a maximum period of 60 (Sixty) days. On expiry of the said 60 (Sixty) days, BESCOM at its discretion may terminate this Agreement.” Article 2.5: Extension of Time “2.5.1 In the event that the SPD is prevented from performing its obligations under Clause 4.1 by the Scheduled Commissioning Date due to: a. Any BESCOM Event of Default; or b. Force Majeure Events affecting BESCOM; or c. Force Majeure Events affecting the SPD, 1040 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 2.5.2 The Scheduled Commissioning Date and the Expiry Date shall be deferred, subject to the reasons and limits prescribed in Clause 2.5.1 and Clause 2.5.3 for a reasonable period but not less than ‘day for day’ basis, to permit the SPD or BESCOM through the use of due diligence, to overcome the effects of the Force Majeure Events affecting the SPD or BESCOM, or till such time such Event of Default is rectified by BESCOM.