This being the unequivocal position in law, it would be an indicium as to whether the educational institution, apart from being established by the minority, was or is being administered by the minority. 139. For the purposes of Article 30, the right to establish and the right to administer must go hand in hand. Once established, administration of the institution begins. In to attract the protection guaranteed by Article 30, it would not be sufficient for the minority community to say that though it might have established the institution, whether to administer it or not is a choice given by the article itself so much so that the administration can be wholly left to even a non-minority community. Only those institutions which are established by the minority community and are being administered by such community may exercise their choice of whether to establish a school or a college or a university as well as the manner and mode of management of such institution. These are of course tests which need to be applied to specific institutions which have not been brought into existence through a statute. If any institution is a creature of a statute, various other circumstances need to be holistically considered. Whether or not AMU is a minority institution presents a unique case bearing no similarity with any other pre-independence university. 140. Having regard to the state of affairs existing in India during the last quarter of the nineteenth century and the first two decades of the twentieth century, there can be no disagreement that both the Hindus and the Muslims were aspiring to have universities to cater to the needs of their respective communities. The imperial government, however, was not prepared to give up an inch and hand over control of the proposed universities to either community. The Hindus relented and BHU came to be established in 1915. The Muslims too wished to have a university but the degree of control sought to be exercised by the imperial government brought about the rift, referred to earlier. What followed was sort of a compromise. The Muslim community relented in the same manner the Hindus had relented to get BHU established, leading to the process for establishment of AMU. The 1916 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports Loyalists mixed priority with pragmatism. Prioritisation meant focus on the most essential thing, i.e., establishment of AMU, and by being pragmatic, they recognised their limitations of being unable to administer a university. Once AMU came to be established through statute and became a body corporate, there was a total relinquishment of all claims. The land used for AMU was a public land; the funds for AMU were sourced to public money; the person at the helm of administration was the Rector, who was none other than the Governor General; and the sum of Rs. 30 lakh that belonged to the Muslim community and which they were prepared to spend for AMU was kept as the reserve fund, etc. 141. Assuming that the verb ‘to establish’ could be read as ‘to found’, although I found no warrant to so read, it is clear that the Muslim community had no intention to administer AMU which was left to be worked out as per the AMU Act.