But, in this case, paragraph 17.16 indicates to the contrary.” [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1105 Athar Parwez v. Union of India 27. The Court had further gone to the extent of saying and rightly so that in the chargesheet there is no allegation that the Appellant was a member of a terrorist gang or organisation. It is worth mentioning here that the PFI of which the Appellant was a member has not been declared a terrorist organisation within the meaning of Section 2(m) of the UAPA, 1967. It was also found that the PFI is not mentioned as a terrorist organisation in the first schedule of UAPA, 1967. The chargesheet and the statement of witness ‘Z’ when seen as it is, it would not be possible to record prima facie finding that commission of offence under the UAPA, 1967 would be attracted as there are no reasonable grounds for believing that the accusations are prima facie correct. 28. Now, moving on to the statement of the protected witness ‘Y’. The testimony of the protected witness ‘Y’ when perused indicates that the Appellant is alleged to be a person of staunch religious nature who used to participate in religious processions and demonstrations against the policies of the Government. He had been motivating the people of his locality to join the activities of the PFI. The meetings held at Ahmad Palace has been acknowledged by him to be so held where lot of outsiders had come. He is, however, completely silent with regard to the nature of the activities or the meetings held therein. 29. As regards protected witness ‘X’, although he had identified the Appellant to be involved in the protest/demonstration held on 09.06.2022 against the remarks made by Nupur Sharma against Prophet Mohammad where provocative slogans were raised. The allegation against the Appellant is that he had been encouraging others to do so. Beyond that, there is nothing which is alleged against the Appellant which would bring the act or omission of the Appellant within the ambit of the alleged offences committed by him under the UAPA, 1967. 30. Allegations against the Appellant with regard to having collected Zakat from the people for helping the PFI or recruiting members of PFI. Suffice it to say at this stage, that on the day such activities were carried out by the Appellant, PFI was not a banned organisation. None of the witnesses or the protected witnesses stated that the money so collected in the form of Zakat was ever misappropriated by the Appellant or was in any manner used for illegal activities. The statement of the protected witnesses has not mentioned anything 1106 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports specific that would be attributed to the Appellant which could prima facie attract charges under the UAPA, 1967. 31. It is thus apparent that the first test as has been laid down by the various s of this Court referred to above, stands satisfied relating to Section 43-D(5) of the UAPA, 1967. Another aspect which cannot be ignored is that the material which has been allegedly recovered from the Appellant especially the documents which according to the prosecution contained the incriminating contents as per the seizure memo were from the second floor.