Concluding that the appellants had failed to cross the first hurdle of locus, the NCLAT held that they could not maintain the allegation of oppression and mismanagement which would be available only to a person who is a member of the company. The NCLAT accordingly dismissed the appeal and the I.A. as devoid of merit, leading to the filing of these appeals. 19. IA Nos. 171771 and 168458 of 2023 filed in one of these appeals by the appellants seeking permission to file additional documents are allowed and the said documents are taken on record. IA No. 72990 of 2024 is also allowed at the sole risk and peril of the appellants, permitting deletion of the name of respondent No. 6 from the array of parties. 20. While ing notice in these appeals on 01.09.2023, this Court raised certain questions, which the appellants were required to answer. The questions read as follows: [2024] 9 S.C.R. 247 Chalasani Udaya Shankar and others v. M/s. Lexus Technologies Pvt. Ltd. and other ‘1. Why, after acquiring the shares, the appellants did not come on the Board of Directors? 2. Why the appellants did not attend or call upon the Directors to hold the Annual General Meeting(s)? 3. Why the appellants did not take steps as the annual accounts were not audited and submitted to them and with the Registrar of Companies.’ The appellants were directed to file an affidavit dealing with the aforesaid aspects. Pursuant thereto, Affidavit of Compliance dated 08.12.2023 was filed by the appellants. Therein, apropos the first query as to why the appellants did not come onto the Board of Directors after acquiring the shares, they stated that they had purchased the shares for investment purpose and hence, initially, they did not take interest in the affairs of the company. They further stated that they had long-standing business and personal relations with respondents 3 and 4, who were the Directors of the company, and in such circumstances, a fiduciary relationship existed between them. According to them, they did not come onto the Board of Directors due to these reasons and trusted that respondents 3 and 4 would continue to run the affairs of the company in accordance with law. 21. As regards the second query posed by this Court as to why they did not attend Annual General Meetings or call upon the Directors to hold such meetings, the appellants stated that the name of the company was struck off by the Registrar of Companies on 21.07.2017 owing to failure in filing of Annual Returns for the financial years 2014-15, 2015-16 and 2016-17. It was only on coming to know of this that the appellants claim to have inquired with the Directors and were informed that the issue would be settled shortly. The Directors are stated to have informed them orally that there was a complaint filed against the Directors and the Auditor of the company in Machavaram Police Station at Vijayawada on 30.12.2013, by one of the shareholders, and the Directors promised that all issues would be settled and the Annual Returns would be updated with the Registrar of Companies along with the names of the investors.