Birla Cotton 7J (supra) also refers to Hari Shankar Bagla v. State of Madhya Pradesh,22 where the majority held that the legislature must declare the policy of law and legal principles which are to control any given cases and thereby provide a standard of guidance to the executive, empowered to execute laws. 27. In Western India Theatres Limited v. Municipal Corporation of the City of Poona,23 referred by Birla Cotton 7J (supra), the issue related to the power of the municipality to levy “any other tax to the nature and object of which the approval of the Governor-in-Council shall have been obtained prior to the selection contemplated”. The delegated legislation was upheld on the ground that municipality was authorised by the principal enactment to impose the tax. The enactment defined the obligations and functions cast upon the municipality. The taxes could only be levied for implementing those specific purposes and not for any other purpose. Further, the section in the enactment laid down the procedure that the municipality had to follow for imposing the tax. Thus, the legislature had not abdicated its function in favour of the municipality. Same is true in the present case. 28. In Birla Cotton 7J (supra), the assessee had challenged a resolution passed by the municipal corporation to levy three taxes, including a levy of tax on consumption or sale of electricity. The challenge was that the levy of tax by the Corporation was by way of excessive delegation and was therefore ultra vires. This Court relied upon the in Pandit Banarsi Das Bhanot v. State of Madhya Pradesh,24 to uphold the levy. In Pandit Banarsi (supra), this Court had observed that a delegated legislation is not unconstitutional when the legislature leaves it to the executive to determine details relating to the working of taxation laws, such as selection of persons on whom the tax has to be levied, the rates at which it is to be charged in respect of different classes of goods and the like. The principal legislature, it was held, has not given unqualified power to fix the rate of tax without guidance, control or safeguard. 22 [1955] 1 SCR 380 23 AIR 1959 SC 586 24 [1959] SCR 427 924 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 29. Pandit Banarsi Das (supra) also refers to Powell v. Apollo Candle Company Ltd.25 which had upheld the power of delegation to levy duties by observing that there was complete guidance in the manner of fixing the rate of duty and finally the passed by the Governor had to be laid before both Houses of the Parliament without unnecessary delay. 30. In Devidas Gopal Krishnan v. State of Punjab,26 this Court distinguished its earlier decision in Corporation of Calcutta v. Liberty Cinema 27 where the majority upheld the fixation of tax on cinema shows, albeit the Calcutta Municipal Act, 1951 had failed to prescribe a limit to which tax could go. The majority in Liberty Cinema (supra) had referred to Pandit Banarsi Das (supra) and held that there is no in-principle distinction between delegation of power to fix rates of taxes to be charged on different classes of goods and power to fix rates simpliciter; if power to fix rates in some cases can be delegated then equally the power to fix rates generally can be delegated.