[2024] 12 S.C.R. 1551 Digambar and Another v. The State of Maharashtra and Another 29. We are not, for a moment, stating that any woman who has suffered cruelty in terms of what has been contemplated under Section 498A of the IPC should remain silent and forbear herself from making a complaint or initiating any criminal proceeding. That is not the intention of our aforesaid observations but we should not encourage a case like as in the present one, where as a counterblast to the petition for dissolution of marriage sought by the first appellant-husband of the second respondent herein, a complaint under Section 498A of the IPC is lodged by the latter. In fact, the insertion of the said provision is meant mainly for the protection of a woman who is subjected to cruelty in the matrimonial home primarily due to an unlawful demand for any property or valuable security in the form of dowry. However, sometimes it is misused as in the present case.” 34. We therefore hold that the continuance of the criminal proceedings against the appellants would result in an abuse of process of law. 35. In the present case, the High Court has held that the allegations made by the complainant cannot be presumed to be false and whether they are believable or not will be examined by the Trial Court. We hold that this was an erroneous approach taken by the High Court as according to the principles laid down in the case of Bhajanlal (supra), the allegations levelled in the complaint should at the very least be given a prima facie consideration. 36. In the result, we find that, this was a fit case wherein the High Court should have exercised its inherent powers under Section 482 of the Cr.P.C. to quash the criminal proceedings. 37. We are therefore inclined to allow the present appeal. 38. We accordingly pass the following : (i) The appeal is allowed; (ii) The impugned and dated 23rd January 2020 passed by the High Court of Judicature at Bombay at Aurangabad in Criminal Application No. 859 of 2019 is quashed and set aside; and 1552 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports (iii) The criminal proceedings against the appellants in FIR No. 339 of 2018 and Final Report No. 10 of 2021 on the file of Chief Judicial Magistrate, Latur and all subsequent proceedings arising therefrom are quashed and set aside. 39. Pending application(s), if any, shall stand disposed of. Result of the Case: Appeal allowed. †Headnotes prepared by: Ankit Gyan