30. The issue which arose before the High Court turned on the decision in PV Narasimha Rao (supra). Therefore, this proceeding provides the correct occasion to settle the law once and for all. There is no infirmity in the reference to seven judges to reconsider the decision in PV Narasimha Rao (supra). 31. Mr Raju Ramachandran, senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant has argued that a position of law which has stood undisturbed since 1998 should not be interfered with by the Court. We do not consider it appropriate for this Court to confine itself to such a rigid understanding of the doctrine of stare decisis. The ability of this Court to reconsider its decisions is necessary for the organic development of law and the advancement of justice. If this Court is denuded of its power to reconsider its decisions, the development of constitutional jurisprudence would virtually come to a standstill. In the past, this Court has not refrained from reconsidering a prior construction of the Constitution if it proves to be unsound, unworkable, or contrary to public interest. This delicate balance was eloquently explained by HR Khanna, J in Maganlal Chhaganlal (P) Ltd. v. Municipal Corpn. of Greater Bombay19 in the following terms: 19 [1975] 1 SCR 1 : (1974) 2 SCC 402 [2024] 3 S.C.R. 493 Sita Soren v. Union of India “22. […] The Court has to keep the balance between the need of certainty and continuity and the desirability of growth and development of law. It can neither by judicial pronouncements allow law to petrify into fossilised rigidity nor can it allow revolutionary iconoclasm to sweep away established principles. On the one hand the need is to ensure that judicial inventiveness shall not be desiccated or stunted, on the other it is essential to curb the temptation to lay down new and novel principles in substitution of well-established principles in the ordinary run of cases and the readiness to canonise the new principles too quickly before their saintliness has been affirmed by the passage of time. […]” 32. A Bench of seven judges of this Court in Bengal Immunity Company Limited v. State of Bihar and Ors.,20 delineated the powers of this Court to reconsider its own decisions in view of the doctrine of stare decisis. Both SR Das, CJ and Bhagwati, J, in their separate opinions, detailed the power of this Court to reconsider its s, particularly when they raise issues of constitutional importance. SR Das, J explored the s delivered in various jurisdictions, such as England, Australia, and the United States to conclude that this Court cannot be denuded of its power to depart from its previous decisions, particularly on questions of interpretation of the Constitution. The Court observed that an erroneous interpretation of the Constitution could result in a situation where the error is not rectified for a long period of time to the detriment of the general public. The test laid down by the Court was rooted in establishing the “baneful effect” of the previous decision on the “general interests of the public”.