Their appointment is invalid from the very beginning, and in the application before the court under Section 14, the only question is whether the arbitrator falls under one of the categories of the Seventh Schedule and whether there is an agreement waiving the applicability of Section 12(5) in accordance with the proviso.55 24. At this stage, it may be relevant to note that the entries of the Seventh Schedule are common with the first 19 entries of the Fifth Schedule. This Court in HRD v. GAIL (supra) has noted that the purpose of such overlapping entries is to ensure that the disclosure under the Sixth Schedule encompasses disclosure on entries contained in the Seventh Schedule. Otherwise, the parties will be put at a disadvantageous position as they will not have access to such information.56 Since this is the purpose of identical entries, it follows that if any of the entries in the Seventh Schedule applies, then the consequence under Section 12(5), rather than Section 12(1) read with Section 12(3), will ensue. 25. Public policy consideration in Section 12(5). The neutrality, independence, impartiality, integrity, and objectivity of an arbitral tribunal are matters of public policy, and the validity of arbitration agreements must be tested against this touchstone. The object and purpose of Section 12(5) is to secure the independence and impartiality of the arbitral tribunal by placing a restriction on the choice of the parties in appointing certain persons as arbitrators, who are declared as “ineligible” under the Seventh Schedule. Section 12 is therefore a statutory incorporation of the public policy principle of access to justice that I have delineated hereinabove, and the Fifth and Seventh Schedules enlist the situations when the appointment of certain persons could and would conflict with the independence of the tribunal. The courts can examine whether an appointment 55 Chennai Metro Rail (supra), paras 29-33. 56 HRD (supra), para 17. 2308 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports procedure accords or violates this provision. Therefore, the court will be guided by Section 12 of the Act, read with the Fifth and Seventh Schedules, to determine whether arbitration agreements providing for unilateral appointments and panel appointments are opposed to the public policy duty on the parties to appoint an independent tribunal. 26. The next important question is the stage at which the court will exercise its power and jurisdiction to examine whether the arbitration agreement is in consonance with Section 12 and the broad public policy principle of constitution of an independent and impartial tribunal. I will now consider this question. G. Power of the Court to Constitute an Independent Tribunal and the stage at which the power is exercised 27. Power of the Court to ensure that the agreement is not only independent and impartial but also seems independent and impartial. 27.1 When a party to the arbitration agreement alleges that the core principle of the remedy is compromised in the procedure prescribed under the agreement by filing an application under Section 11(6), it is at this stage that the court will examine it.