What is the difference between an “Overcharge” and an “Illegal Charge”? II. Whether, the claim towards the refund of difference of 110 km in freight charges is covered by Section 106 sub-section (3) of the Railways Act, 1989? In other words, Whether the claim is for a refund of an ‘overcharge’? III. Whether, the difference of 110 km in freight is liable to be refunded? In other words, whether the notified chargeable distance of ‘444 km’ was an Illegal Charge or not? i. Relevant Statutory Scheme and Provisions 22. Earlier, in India the law pertaining to the railways was scattered into several enactments and executive s, each regulating different aspects of the railways throughout the country. The reason behind 1080 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the multiple different legislations on the railways was the number of changes that were rapidly taking place due to the expansion and establishment of various railway corridors across the country. 23. The Indian Railways Act, 1890 was the first prominent legislation to be passed to consolidate the law and embody all important provisions relating to the railways. The Act, 1890 since its enactment remained the sole substantive legislation for regulating railways in India for nearly half a century. 24. Despite being amended several times, the Act, 1890 was not able to keep pace with the changes that were rapidly taking place in the Indian railway infrastructure and network. Over the course of time, several committees were constituted with a view to streamline the functioning of Indian Railways and meet the challenges of changing times. Various recommendations were made to the Government by these committees, with the most significant one being the complete reorganization of the railway into several operational zones. 25. Due to large and sweeping nature of the changes recommended, the Act, 1890 required an extensive revision, something which could not be done by amendment, and thus, a new exhaustive Act was required for the consolidation and nationalization of the Indian Railways. 26. Accordingly, the Railways Act 1989 came to be enacted with a view to amend and consolidate the legislation relating to the Railways and to replace the erstwhile Indian Railways Act, 1890. The statement of objects and reasons of the Act, 1989 reads as under: - “STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS The Indian Railways, Act, 1890 was enacted at a time when the railways in India were mostly managed by private companies. The Government of India primarily played the role of a coordinating and regulating authority in various matters, such as inter-railway movement of traffic, fixation of rates, sharing of revenue, earnings of through traffic, apportionment of claims liability amongst the railways, providing reasonable facilities to passenger and goods traffic, etc. This role was accordingly reflected in the Act. But now, except for a very small portion of the railways, the entire railway system has become part of the Government of India. To give effect to the changes [2024] 3 S.C.R. 1081 Union of India v. M/s Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. in the railway system from time to time, the Act had also undergone changes number of times since its enactment in 1890.