The first respondent in the course of his counter affidavit states as follows: “…In fact, the present case is not the only case, in which so called reasons are not assigned by the Hon’ble High Court while grating bail. There are many other cases also in which the same or similar s were passed by the Hon’ble High Court and perhaps will be passed in future, as well. Therefore, the Respondent No.1 may not be penalized for something on which he has no control at all and it is the judicial discretion of the Hon’ble High Court to give reasons or not to give reasons while granting bail…” 10. The manner in which the Single Judge of the High Court has disposed of the application for bail is unsatisfactory. In determining as to whether bail should be granted in a matter involving a serious criminal offence, the Court is duty bound to consider: (i) The seriousness and gravity of the crime; (ii) The role attributed to the accused; (iii) The likelihood of the witnesses being tampered with if bail is granted; (iv) The likelihood of the accused not being available for trial if bail is granted; and (v) The criminal antecedents of the accused. 11. In successive s, the Single Judge of the High Court granted bail containing the same sentence, 582 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports purportedly of reasons. Merely recording that the Court has had regard to the nature of the accusation, the severity of the punishment in the case of conviction, the nature of supporting evidence, prima facie satisfaction of the Court in support of the charge, reformative theory of punishment and the larger mandate of Article 21 is not a satisfactory method for the simple reason that the facts of the case have to be considered. Moreover, not all the circumstances referred to above will weigh in the same direction. The duty to consider the circumstances of the case cannot be obviated by setting down legal formulations.” 7. This Court noted that as the grating bail in favour of Niyaz Ahmad had been set aside, the subsequent passed by the High Court on 22nd August, 2022, granting regular bail in favour of the accused Waseem could not be sustained. As a result, the appeal preferred by the appellant-complainant was allowed and the granting bail in favour of Waseem(A-7) was set aside with a direction issued to the High Court to consider the matter afresh. It is on the basis of the said directions that the impugned has been passed. The factors that have persuaded the learned Single Judge of the High Court to allow the application filed by the accused, Waseem are encapsulated in the following para : “Considering the overall facts and circumstances, the nature of allegation, the gravity of offence, the severity of the punishment, the evidence appearing against the accused, submission of learned counsel for the parties, considering the law laid down in the case of Lakshmi Singh and others vs. State of Bihar and Others, Babu Ram and Others vs. State of Punjab and Amarjeet Singh vs. State of Haryana, this Court thinks that eleven accused persons are said to have assaulted the complainant side after indiscriminate firing in which only three persons had sustained injuries on their persons, who later on, died in the hospital from the side of the complainant and the accused side had also received serious injuries, accused Niyaj Ahmad has also suffered gun shot injury in the incident and the injuries sustained by the accused side has not been explained by the prosecution.