In furtherance, they submit that the provision of maximum punishment in the present matter is seven years, therefore, in the matter of Satender Antil versus CBI of the Hon’ble Supreme Court A remand application cannot be granted mechanically as held in the of the further submit that the accused has been present in the police station frequently and has cooperated fully in the investigation, hence the said application is proposed to be rejected. 4. Heard, on 21/7/2023 for the present matter, the complainant filed u/s 420, 120[b] of Indian Penal Code against a total 7 accused in Vesu Police Station. A complaint under section 4R0, 120(b) is lodged which provides for a maximum sentence of seven years. In the present matter, the co-accused is yet to be arrested, if we take the matter diary regarding the behavior of the accused Tushar Rajinikanth Shah mentioned in the remand petition. they will be called on 8/12/2023 for the matter of Special Leave to Appeal No 14486/2023 is not present at the police station for investigation till the of “releasing the applicant from bail due to arrest” is passed. The facts of the matter diary become significant. The police have visited the house of the main accused, issued notices and reminders under [2024] 8 S.C.R. 245 Tusharbhai Rajnikantbhai Shah v. Kamal Dayani & Ors. section 41(A) but the accused himself was not found present at the house, his wife or his mother was present and replied that he was there for the last two months. Not present means the accused person did not cooperate with the police investigation proceedings. Taking into consideration the matter diary dated 11/12/2023, appeared after the of the Hon’ble Supreme Court and wrote his answer which answer taking into account the facts of the main complaint, it is prima facie evident on the record that the present accused has been dealt with other co- accused, the prime of the present matter. Accused Sumit Goenka is yet to be arrested, other accused are yet to be arrested, police investigation is pending in that direction. In the present matter it is pending investigation as to which accused took the paid compensation of the project property; the main accused has admitted in his statement that the diary was written by him. So, it becomes clear that their criminal role is there and if we note the extreme importance, in the present matter the prosecution has made serious allegations of pre-planned and criminal conspiracy, then a thorough investigation is pending in that regard. In the present matter it becomes necessary to bring the modus operandi of the accused on record. At this stage, it is to be noted that in the present time, the amount of offence related to property like land and houses has increased, in which most of the builder level people are also involved, while in the present matter, there is a deal of 15 shops, so the compensation amount is Rs. 1,65,00,000/- paid, thorough investigation of the offence becomes necessary so the reasons stated in the remand application are true.