The recitals indicate that the lease deed serves as a statutory agreement between the State Government, being the lessor, and the lessee. 73. Part V of Form K deals with rents and royalties reserved by the lease and specifies the rate and mode of payment of dead rent, royalty, surface rent, and the water rate. This part mandates the lessee to pay royalty to the State Government at the rates prescribed by the Central Government in the Second Schedule to the Act.95 Part VI contains provisions relating to rents and royalties and provides for the mode of computing royalty: “Mode of computation of royalty 2. For the purposes of computing the said royalties the lessee/lessees shall keep a correct account of the mineral/ minerals produced and dispatched. The accounts as well as the weight of the mineral/minerals in stock or in the process of export may be checked by an officer authorized by the Central or State Government.” 74. Part VII contains the covenants of the lessee/lessees. The lessee undertakes to pay the rent, water rate, and royalties specified 95 Mineral Concession Rules 1960, Form K, Part V. It reads: [“Rate and mode of payment of royalty 3. Subject to the provisions of clause 1 of this Part, the lessee/lessees shall during the subsistence of this lease pay to the State Government at such times and in such manner as the State Government may prescribe royalty in respect of any mineral/minerals removed by him/them from the leased area at the rate for the time being specified in the Second Schedule to the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957”] [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1629 Mineral Area Development Authority & Anr. v. M/s Steel Authority of India & Anr. Etc. under Parts V and VI in addition to the payment of taxes, rates, assessments and impositions being in the nature of public demands from time to time. Party VIII contains the covenants of the State Government. It provides that a lessee paying the rents, water rate, and royalties may quietly hold and enjoy the rights and premises during the term of the lease deed without unlawful interruption from the State Government. ii. Purpose of Section 9 of the MMDR Act 75. The regime of mineral licensing prior to the enactment of the MMDR Act was governed by the Mines and Minerals (Regulation and Development) Act 194896 read with the Mineral Concession Rules 1948. Under the previous regime, all grants and permissions (such as prospecting licences97 and mining leases98) were approved and issued by the State Government. The Industrial Policy Resolution of 1956 proposed an active role for the State in setting up new industrial undertakings to achieve “planned and rapid development.”99 Minerals such as coal, lignite, mineral oils, iron ore, copper, zinc, and atomic minerals were exclusively reserved for the State, while the private sector was allowed to participate along with the public sector in case of minor minerals. The MMDR Act was enacted in pursuance of the above goals stated in the Industrial Policy Resolution.