[Para 13] Interim s – Whether the High Courts are empowered to vacate or modify interim relief: Held: (Per Abhay S. Oka, J. for himself and Dr. Dhananjaya Y. Chandrachud, CJI., J.B. Pardiwala, Manoj Misra, JJ.) The High Courts are always empowered to vacate or modify an of interim relief passed after hearing the parties on the following, amongst other grounds: - (a)If a litigant, after getting an of stay, deliberately prolongs the proceedings either by seeking adjournments on unwarranted grounds or by remaining absent when the main case in which interim relief is granted is called out for hearing before the High Court with the object of taking undue advantage of the of stay; (b)The High Court finds that the of interim relief is granted as a result of either suppression or misrepresentation of material facts by the party in whose favour the interim of stay has been made; and (c) The High Court finds that there is a material change in circumstances requiring interference with the interim passed earlier – In a given case, a long passage of time may bring about a material change in circumstances – These grounds are not exhaustive – There can be other valid grounds for vacating an of stay. [Para 15] Interim s – Whether an interim can come to an end automatically only due to the lapse of time: Held: (Per Abhay S. Oka, J. for himself and Dr. Dhananjaya Y. Chandrachud, CJI., J.B. Pardiwala, Manoj Misra, JJ.) Elementary principles of natural justice, which are well recognised in jurisprudence, mandate that an of vacating interim relief or modification of the interim relief is passed only after hearing all 948 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the affected parties – An of vacating interim relief passed without hearing the beneficiary of the is against the basic tenets of justice – Application of mind is an essential part of any decision-making process – Therefore, without application of mind, an of interim stay cannot be vacated only on the ground of lapse of time when the litigant is not responsible for the delay – An interim lawfully passed by a Court after hearing all contesting parties is not rendered illegal only due to the long passage of time. [Para 16] Constitution of India – What is the scope of exercise of powers u/Art. 142 of the Constitution: Held: (Per Abhay S. Oka, J. for himself and Dr. Dhananjaya Y. Chandrachud, CJI., J.B. Pardiwala, Manoj Misra, JJ.) Important parameters for the exercise of the jurisdiction u/Art. 142 of the Constitution of India which are relevant for deciding the reference are as follows: (i) The jurisdiction can be exercised to do complete justice between the parties before the Court – It cannot be exercised to nullify the benefits derived by a large number of litigants based on judicial s validly passed in their favour who are not parties to the proceedings before this Court; (ii) Article 142 does not empower this Court to ignore the substantive rights of the litigants; (iii) While exercising the jurisdiction u/Art.