929 of 1991. II. SUBMISSIONS We have heard the Counsel appearing for the parties. 10. Advocate N.S. Nappinai, appearing for the Appellants, accepting the findings of fact recorded by the Courts below on the status of Respondent No. 2 and Appellant No. 2 as part of the extended [2024] 1 S.C.R. 419 Raja Gounder and Others v. M. Sengodan and Others family of Muthusamy Gounder, argues a substantive point viz., both the Courts below fell in a serious flaw in not moulding the relief from admitted circumstances/evidence particularly when the suit filed is for partition and separate possession of the plaint schedule properties. It is argued that the Appellants and Respondent Nos. 1 and 2, assuming failed in establishing the status of a valid marriage of Appellant No. 2 and Respondent No. 2 with Muthusamy Gounder, still the entitlement of a share as sons/children of Muthusamy Gounder through the extended family of Muthusamy Gounder should have been considered. The documentary evidence shows that Muthusamy Gounder treated Appellant No. 1, Respondent No. 1 and Respondent No. 3 as his sons. Therefore, Appellant No. 1 and likewise Respondent No. 1 even are children of Muthusamy Gounder through a void or voidable marriage, still the children of Muthusamy Gounder through extended family are entitled to a share in the half share of Muthusamy Gounder in the schedule properties. The Counsel places reliance on Revanasiddappa and another v. Mallikarjun and others1, for the proposition that the children of Appellant No. 2 and Respondent No. 2 will be entitled to a share in the property, which would have been allotted to Muthusamy Gounder in the notional partition of plaint schedule properties. The Counsel places reliance on Ex. B-6, a registered mortgage deed dated 01.11.1976, executed by Muthusamy Gounder in favour of Karuppana Gounder and on Ex. B-3 dated 27.04.1984, a joint patta in favour of Muthusamy Gounder and all his three sons. The unrebutted documentary evidence in Exs. B-3 and B-6 constitute, firstly, an admission in the form of a substantive piece of evidence by Muthusamy Gounder on the status of Appellant No. 1 and Respondent No. 1 as his sons, coupled with corroborative documentary evidence in Ex. B-4 and B-5, electoral rolls. Respondent No. 3 claims through the common propositus, i.e., Muthusamy Gounder, and these admissions are valid in law on Respondent No. 3. This is the best evidence from none other than the common propositus. The Appellants and Respondent No. 1 are entitled to a share in the share allotted to Muthusamy Gounder. Therefore, the Counsel argues that given the settled legal position on the status of sons of Muthusamy Gounder through Appellant No. 2 and Respondent No. 2, a decree for partition though not as prayed for, is passed, but a preliminary decree of partition firstly on plaint schedule properties 1 (2023) 10 SCC 1 420 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports between Muthusamy Gounder and Respondent No. 3 is made, and a further decree, distributing the share of Muthusamy Gounder to Appellant Nos.