iv. Whether the Impugned interferes with the contract executed between the parties? v. Whether charging rate of interests by banks in the manner as advised by Reserve Bank of India vide its master circulars & notifications being independent of a standard ceiling rate prescribed by the Reserve Bank of India, constitute an unfair trade practice? 62. It is a well-settled principle that the terms of a contract executed between two parties, are not open to judicial scrutiny unless the same is arbitrary, discriminatory, mala fide or actuated by bias. The 17 Supreme Court Employees Welfare Association Vs Union of India (1989) 4 SCC 187 18 Peerless General Finance & Investment Co. Ltd. & Anr. Vs Reserve Bank of India (1992) 2 SC 343 [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1513 Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corp. Ltd. v. Awaz & Ors. courts cannot strike down the terms of a contract, because it feels that some other terms would have been fair, wiser or logical. 63. The credit card holders in the present case are well-informed and educated & had agreed to be bound by the express stipulation by the terms issued by the respective banks. The banks in the most important terms and conditions, as provided by the Banks have provided all necessary information with regard to fees, and charges applicable to credit cards, credit and cash withdrawal limits. We are of the considered opinion that once the terms of the credit card operations were known to the complainants and disclosed by the banking institutions before the issuance of the credit cards, the National Commission could not have scrutinized the terms or conditions, including the rate of interest. More-so, the Respondent has not approached the statutory authority, the Reserve Bank of India, for any objection against the rate of interest, or the high Benchmark Prime Lending Rate. 64. The National Commission, whilst making observations, has made stipulations to the terms of contract agreed between the parties, so much so it has supplanted itself as the custodian of the terms and conditions between the parties. We are of the considered opinion to re-agitate the terms and conditions of credit card facilities provided by the banks, and re-write the terms thereof, including the rates of interest charged by the banks, is exorbitant, however reasonable, is an attempt by the National Commission to constitute a new contract, which is impermissible in law. It is a settled cannon of law, that a contract, being a creature of an agreement between two or more parties, is to be interpreted giving the actual meaning to the words contained in the contract and it is not permissible for the Court to make a new contract, however reasonable, if the parties have not made it themselves.”19 65. Therefore, when a person signs a document which contains certain contractual terms, that normally parties are bound by such contract; it is for the parties to establish an exception in a suit. When a party to the contract disputes the binding nature of the signed document, 19 Rajasthan State Industrial Development & Investment Corporation Vs Diamond & Gem Development Corporation Ltd. 1514 [2024] 12 S.C.R.