(5) Subject to the provisions of sub-sections (1), (2),(3) and (4), the Government may, by notification – (a) exclude from a notified market area, any area comprised therein; or (b) include in any notified market area, any area specified in such notification. ]5 After discussing provisions of Sections 3 & 4 of the Act, the majority opinion in the Full Bench concluded that procedural compliance is only necessary when there is a declaration or later a merger/de- merger of a notified area and there is no requirement of following any particular procedure while issuing a notification under Section 4 (4) of the Act notifying/de-notifying any already notified products for the purpose of regulation by any respective Agricultural Market Committee (AMC). In other words, a prior hearing or prior publication of the draft notification is not a requirement under Section 4 of the Act, since the notification of the year 1994 is a notification under Section 4 and not of Section 3 of the Act. Therefore, the argument that the process under Section 3, has not been followed is totally misconceived. No prior process was required to be followed as contemplated under Section 3 of the Act for working the scheme under Section 4 of the Act. Consequently, we hold that there was nothing wrong in the 1994 notification and the challenge to the notification has rightly been turned down by the Full Bench of the Andhra Pradesh High Court. 5 Omitted vide the Andhra Pradesh (Agricultural Produce and Livestock) Markets (Amendment) Act, 2015. [2024] 3 S.C.R. 185 Sangam Milk Producer Company Ltd. v. The Agricultural Market Committee & Ors. 12. We are now left with one more issue related to the market fee. Since the 1994 notification had an effect which made ‘Ghee’ a product that could be regulated under provisions of the Act, Market Committees were empowered to levy fee on the sale and purchase of ‘ghee’ as per section 12 of the Act. During the pendency of the matter before the High Court, the appellants were not required to pay market fee as they were granted interim protection by the High Court. After the majority decision of the High Court in Kommissetty Nammalwar (Supra), market committees started issuing demand notices to the producers of ‘Ghee’ asking them to pay fees from the date of the notification in the year 1994 to the date of the High Court i.e. 01.05.2009. This issue was also raised by appellants in the present appeals and it was prayed that they should be exempted from paying the fee to the market committees prior to the High Court . This Court while issuing the notices in present matters, vide interim , restrained market committees from collecting the market fees for the period prior to the High Court . Even some of the present appeals were heard on this limited question. 13. As per section 4(2) of the Act, the Market Committee has the duty to enforce the provisions of the Act within a notified area.