19. Previous sanction necessary for prosecution.- (1) No court shall take cognizance of an offence punishable under Sections 7, 10, 11, 13 and 15 alleged to have been committed by a public servant, except with the previous sanction,- […] (3) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), (a) no finding, sentence or passed by a special Judge shall be reversed or altered by a Court in appeal, confirmation or revision on the ground of the absence of, or any error, omission or irregularity in, the sanction required under sub-section (1), unless in the opinion of that Court, a failure of justice has in fact been occasioned thereby; (b) no Court shall stay the proceedings under this Act on the ground of any error, omission or irregularity in the sanction granted by the authority, unless it is satisfied that such error, omission or irregularity has resulted in a failure of justice; (c) no Court shall stay the proceedings under this Act on any other ground and no Court shall exercise the powers of revision in relation to any interlocutory passed in any inquiry, trial, appeal or other proceedings. (4) In determining under sub-section (3) whether the absence of, or any error, omission or irregularity in, such sanction has occasioned or resulted in a failure of justice [2024] 12 S.C.R. 537 Central Bureau of Investigation v. Jagat Ram the court shall have regard to the fact whether the objection could and should have been raised at any earlier stage in the proceedings.” 6. It is clear that under sub-section 3(a) of Section 19 of the Act, no finding, sentence or by a Special Judge shall be reversed by a court of appeal on the ground of absence, error, omission or irregularity in the sanction. This is the first principle. However, such a restraint against reversal or alteration is always subject to the opinion of the court that failure of justice has in fact been occasioned thereby. Sub-section (4) of Section 19 of the Act further provides that while construing whether the absence, error, omission or irregularity has occasioned or resulted in failure of justice, the court will examine the fact that whether an objection could and should have been raised at an earlier stage in the proceedings. 7. Failure of Justice, what it entails and the scope of such enquiry was explained by this Court in C.B.I v. Ashok Kumar Aggarwal3 in the following terms: “18. ……The failure of justice would be relatable to error, omission or irregularity in the grant of sanction. However, a mere error, omission or irregularity in sanction is not considered to be fatal unless it has resulted in the failure of justice or has been occasioned thereby. 19. The court must examine whether the issue raised regarding failure of justice is actually a failure of justice in the true sense or whether it is only a camouflage argument. The expression “failure of justice” is an extremely pliable or facile an expression which can be made to fit into any case.