Its nuanced provisions have been deliberately designed to provide stringent measures in to secure the dignity protection and interest of children. It was in this backdrop, that the legislature in its wisdom specifically provided for certain statutory presumptions as regards commission of certain [2024] 10 S.C.R. 249 Just Rights for Children Alliance & Anr. v. S. Harish & Ors. specified offences as-well as presumption of the existence of a culpable mental state on the part of the person accused so as to ensure that the legislation is effective in addressing the increasing number of child sexual abuse cases. 155. The provisions pertaining to statutory presumptions under the POCSO are contained in Section(s) 29 and 30 which provide for presumption as to certain offences and presumption of culpable mental state respectively. In the case at hand we are concerned with Section 30 of the POCSO which at the cost of repetition is being reproduced hereunder: - “30. Presumption of culpable mental state. – (1) In any prosecution for any offence under this Act which requires a culpable mental state on the part of the accused, the Special Court shall presume the existence of such mental state but it shall be a defence for the accused to prove the fact that he had no such mental state with respect to the act charged as an offence in that prosecution. (2) For the purposes of this section, a fact is said to be proved only when the Special Court believes it to exist beyond reasonable doubt and not merely when its existence is established by a preponderance of probability. Explanation. – In this section, “culpable mental state” includes intention, motive, knowledge of a fact and the belief in, or reason to believe, a fact.” 156. Section 30, sub-section (1) provides that where any offence under the POCSO requires a culpable mental state on the part of the accused, the Special Court shall presume the existence of such mental state. It further provides that the accused may as a defence prove that he had no such mental state with respect to any act being sought to be punished under the Act. Thus, Section 30(1), makes it clear that the presumption of culpable mental state applies to any offence under the said Act that requires such mental state, and the use of the word “shall” makes it mandatory for the Special Court to presume the existence of such mental state. However, the said provision also clarifies that, although the said presumption is mandatory yet it is rebuttable inasmuch as the person accused is permitted to prove any fact to establish the contrary i.e., to show that no such mental state 250 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports existed on his part. Section 30 sub-section (2) further explains the manner and the circumstances under which the said presumption can be rebutted, insofar as it stipulates that in to prove any fact to show that no such mental state existed, the person accused has to prove the same beyond a reasonable doubt and not on a mere preponderance of probability.