Assuming arguendo that the contention touching ‘liberty’ granted by Shailendra [3-Judge] (supra) 994 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports is correct, the plinth thereof crumbles by reason of paragraph 365 of Manoharlal [5-Judge, lapse] (supra) and, therefore, is rendered non-existent. 84. All these aspects, we say so with respect, escaped the attention of the Hon’ble Judge presiding over the said Division Bench. His Lordship’s opinion on the observations made in Manoharlal [5-Judge, lapse] and Shailendra [3-Judge] (supra) are erroneous. 85. Questions (b) and (c) are answered accordingly, against the review petitioners. 86. Let us now move on to question (d) to answer it. 87. The decision in Manoharlal [5-Judge, lapse] (supra), according to the respondents, did not afford a ground for maintainability of the RPs while the contrary is argued by the review petitioners. According to Ms. Bhati, an aggrieved party can seek a review “for any other sufficient reason” and overruling of Pune Municipal Corporation (supra) followed by recall thereof brings the claims of the review petitioners within the coverage of this particular ground. That apart, it has been urged that when miscarriage of justice occasioned due to an earlier flawed decision is brought to the notice of this Court and when public interest would be a casualty resulting from the operation of such earlier decision, it ought to be the Court’s duty to pass appropriate s to set things right. 88. It has been noted that prior to the Explanation being inserted in Rule 1 XLVII, with the sole exception of the Kerala High Court, there were decisions of the Privy Council dating back to the commencement of the twentieth century and at least of five High Courts, starting from 1927, to the effect that a subsequent of a higher court reversing the relied on in the under review would not afford a ground for review. There are also at least half a dozen precedents of this Court reiterating such position of law, albeit with the aid of the Explanation. 89. The relevant principles deducible from the precedents on the Explanation to Rule 1 that we have considered, for the purpose of deciding the present reference, are as follows: a) in case of discovery of a new or important matter or evidence, such matter or evidence has to be one which existed at the [2024] 5 S.C.R. 995 Govt. of NCT of Delhi Through Its Secretary, Land and Building Department & Another v. M/s K.L. Rathi Steels Limited and Others time when the decree or under review was passed or made; and b) XLVII would not authorize the review of a decree or which was right when it was made on the ground of some subsequent event. What follows is that XLVII of the CPC does not authorize a review of a decree, which was right, on the happening of some subsequent event (emphasis supplied). 90. With the introduction of the Explanation, there seems to be little room for any serious debate on the point under consideration.