DISPUTE RESOLUTION In the event of any dispute or difference arising out of the Agreement, its validity, applicability, then the same shall be referred to the arbitration. The arbitration shall be subject to UAE Arbitration and Conciliation rules made there under. The venue of arbitration shall be Dubai, UAE. 27. LAW AND JURISDICTION This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of UAE and shall be subject to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the Dubai Courts.” 6. Pursuant to the aforesaid Distributorship Agreement several transactions took place between the petitioner and the respondents 1152 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports for the purchase and distribution of mobile handsets. It is the case of the petitioner that the business practice mutually followed by the parties for undertaking these transactions involved the petitioner first placing a purchase , after which the respondents would raise an invoice, and the requisite payment would then be made either to the respondent no. 1 or the respondent no. 2 as per the instructions of the respondents. 7. Around March, 2012 the petitioner herein placed an for purchase of 8000 (approx..) mobile handsets from the respondent no. 1. Against this purchase the respondent no. 1 raised a proforma invoice to the tune of $109,500/- (USD One hundred nine thousand five hundred) and as per the invoice the said amount was payable by the petitioner to the respondent no. 1 company. 8. According to the petitioner, although the terms of the Distributorship Agreement mandated that both the delivery of handsets and the payments thereof be processed through the respondent no. 1 yet, interestingly, this time the handsets and the corresponding invoices for the same were issued by the respondent no. 2 instead. The respondent no. 2 supplied only 7300 handsets to the petitioner and issued a new invoice for the same amount i.e., $109,500/- (USD One hundred nine thousand five hundred), which was now payable directly to the respondent no. 2 instead. 9. It is the case of the petitioner herein that as on 12.05.2012, the petitioner company had a credit balance of $190,625/- (USD One hundred ninety six hundred twenty-five) with the respondent no. 1 company i.e., the running account of the respondent no. 1 reflected a sum of $190,625/- (USD One hundred ninety six hundred twenty- five) in favour of the petitioner company as outstanding credit. However, the respondent no. 2 whilst raising the invoice for supply of the aforesaid 7300 handsets, ignored the abovementioned credit balance of the petitioner and demanded payment, to be made directly to the respondent no. 2 in India. 10. Thereafter some email correspondences were exchanged between the petitioner company and one Shri Vikas Jain, the executive director of the respondent no. 1 and the business director of the respondent no. 2 company for the adjustment of the abovementioned credit balance lying in favour of the petitioner against the outstanding invoices. On 23.10.2012, the respondents vide an email informed the petitioner [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1153 M/s Arif Azim Co. Ltd. v. M/s Micromax Informatics Fze company that since the accounts of Micromax Informatics FZE & M/s Micromax India are separate, the credit balance lying in its favour in the respondent no.