At the same time, Article 372 represents the thread of continuity even when a new system of governance is put in place. Article 372 stipulates that all laws which were in force in the territory of India before the commencement of the Constitution will continue in force. However, the only caveat was that the laws must not be inconsistent with the provisions of the Constitution. Laws that are violative of the provisions of Part III would be void to the extent of the inconsistency.74 It is crucial to note that Article 13(1) renders the laws to the extent of contravention void and not void ab initio. Thus, the Constitution does not fully overhaul the system of governance and administration. Rather, it only ensures that the governance is in accordance with the rules prescribed in the Constitution. To put it in legal terms, Article 13(1) has a retroactive effect and not a retrospective effect. A provision is retrospective if it alters the position of law before its enactment/commencement. It is retroactive if it imposes new results for previous actions.75 Upon the commencement of the Constitution, citizens received the protective cover of Part III. 74 Constitution of India, Article 13(1) 75 SEBI v. Rajpur Nagpal (2023) 8 SCC 274 [99-102] 1726 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports Article 372 read with Article 13(1) stipulates that laws which pre- date the Constitution are unconstitutional if they contravene the fundamental rights.76 The provisions do not stipulate that laws which pre-date the Constitution cannot receive the additional protection which the fundamental rights offer. The right to administration in Article 30(1) is one such protection. 85. What is the scope of Article 30 when read in the context of Article 372 read with Article 13? Any law enacted by the Imperial Legislature which discriminates against linguistic and religious minorities in the establishment and administration of educational institution would be void. This is the scope of the provision vis-à-vis Articles 372 and 13 when Article 30 is purely read as a negative right. But, this Court has also interpreted the Article as a ‘special rights’ provision guaranteeing additional protection to educational institutions established by minorities. Thus, educational institutions established by religious and linguistic minorities before the commencement of the Constitution will also receive the special protection guaranteed by Article 30(1): the right to administration without the infringement of their minority character. 86. If the argument as propounded is accepted, we will have two sets of minority educational institutions, one established before the commencement of the Constitution which is deprived of the guarantee given under Article 30(1), and those established after the commencement of the Constitution which are entitled to the benefit and guarantee given under Article 30(1). We do not think the Constitution envisages such incongruous and unpalatable differences in rights guaranteed under Article 30(1). b. There is no difference between ‘Universities’ and ‘colleges’ established before the commencement of the Constitution 87. The next argument which needs to be addressed is whether ‘universities’ established before the commencement of the Constitution could receive the protection of Article 30(1).