As per the counter affidavit, which the appellants as respondents filed in the second writ petition, no representation was also filed by the first respondent for which leave was obtained as recorded in the passed on 21st February, 2006. Thus, the s having become final, leave no room for the first respondent to escape its statutory liability by arguing a bar of limitation, when the statute itself did not prescribe such a bar. 30. There cannot be any doubt that once an interim is passed in a suit or a proceeding, the interim relief granted to the party seeking interim relief could either be confirmed or vacated at the time of final disposal of the suit or proceedings, as the case may be. If the disposal is by way of an of dismissal, interim relief which is granted as an aid of or ancillary to the final relief cannot continue [2024] 11 S.C.R. 361 The Madhya Pradesh Madhya Kshetra Vidyut Vitran Company Limited & Ors. v. Bapuna Alcobrew Private Limited & Anr. beyond termination of such suit or proceedings. This is the position of law flowing from the decision in State of Orissa v. Madan Gopal Rungta.26 31. However, if in a particular suit or proceeding, interim relief is sought in respect of a development subsequent to institution of the suit/ proceedings, as in the present case (where the first show cause notice came into existence after the first writ petition was filed), and the challenge to such subsequent development is spurned, the party who has approached the court cannot be heard to say that the effect of spurning of the challenge would come to an end with the disposal of the suit/proceedings. The effect of the challenge being spurned would continue till such time it is reversed in appeal or reviewed in a manner known to law. 32. The situation in such a case, adversely affecting the party whose challenge has been spurned, cannot be sought to be overcome by contending that the suit or proceedings has/have not been dismissed on merits but was/were merely withdrawn. By seeking a withdrawal, the Court before whom the lis was brought is requested not to decide the lis and if the Court while granting the prayer for withdrawal does not grant leave for institution of a fresh suit on the same cause of action, or even if leave is granted and a fresh suit/ proceeding is instituted, that would not have the effect of negating the spurning challenge passed in the earlier suit/ proceedings. The same would remain operative till set aside or varied. 33. It was, therefore, incumbent upon the first respondent to challenge the dated 14th February, 2001; and having failed to do so, it would not be of any merit for the first respondent to contend that until the disconnection notice had been issued on 18th March, 2009, the liability had not crystallised so as to render the first respondent liable to pay the same. The challenge to the first show cause notice having failed, as noticed above, the principle of issue estoppel operated as a bar for the first respondent to raise a challenge to the second show cause notice, which had been issued for precisely the same due amount of Rs 70,50,478/- (Rupees seventy lakhs fifty thousand four hundred and seventy eight only).