Such a practice is followed in to avoid making a request to the husband or his family for her personal expenses. Most married men in India do not realise this aspect of the predicament such Indian homemakers face as any request made for expenses may be bluntly turned down by [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1311 Mohd. Abdul Samad v. The State of Telangana & Anr. the husband and/or his family. Some husbands are not conscious of the fact that the wife who has no independent source of finance is dependent on them not only emotionally but also financially. On the other hand, a wife who is referred to as a homemaker is working throughout the day for the welfare of the family without expecting anything in return except possibly love and affection, a sense of comfort and respect from her husband and his family which are towards her emotional security. This may also be lacking in certain households. 44. While the contributions of such a homemaker get judicial recognition upon her unfortunate death while computing compensation in cases under the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 vide Kirti vs. Oriental Insurance Co. Ltd. (2021) 2 SCC 166, the services and sacrifices of homemakers for the economic well-being of the family, and the economy of the nation, remain uncompensated in large sections of our society. 45. Therefore, I observe that an Indian married man must become conscious of the fact that he would have to financially empower and provide for his wife, who does not have an independent source of income, by making available financial resources particularly towards her personal needs; in other words, giving access to his financial resources. Such financial empowerment would place such a vulnerable wife in a more secure position in the family. Those Indian married men who are conscious of this aspect and who make available their financial resources for their spouse towards their personal expenses, apart from household expenditure, possibly by having a joint bank account or via an ATM card, must be acknowledged. 46. Another aspect of vulnerability of a married Indian woman is regarding her security of residence in her matrimonial home. In this context in the case of Prabha Tyagi vs. Kamlesh Devi (2022) 8 SCC 90, this Court while considering Section 17 along with other provisions of the Domestic Violence Act, 2005 opined as under: “60. In our view, the question raised about a subsisting domestic relationship between the aggrieved person and the person against whom the relief is claimed must be interpreted in a broad and expansive way, so as to encompass not only a subsisting domestic relationship in praesenti but also a past domestic relationship. Therefore, Parliament has intentionally used the expression “domestic relationship” to mean a relationship between two persons 1312 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports who not only live together in the shared household but also between two persons who “have at any point of time lived together” in a shared household.” 47. Thus, both ‘financial security’ as well as ‘security of residence’ of Indian women have to be protected and enhanced.