iv. During the Statement of Smt. Preetha Pradeep recorded on 05.07.2023, on being asked about Shaji or Payasam Shaji, a native of Eratupetta, she replied that Shaji’s person will come to the shop and that they will pay him the required currency which will be collected from Suresh sir’s house through Binu; that mostly the same person will come; that’s why she can recognize him; that without any doubt, they will pay the cash; that Suresh sir will arrange everything; that mostly she or Binu will receive the amount brought by Shaji; that they collect that and later it will be counted; that if any shortages are found in the bundle that will be informed to Suresh sir, that not only the person who goes there with the money but many others, who came to return the money to their office through Shaji; that it is about 20 lakh rupees sent to Shaji and Rs 30 lakhs is the maximum amount Shaji brought to their office. v. Statement of Preetha Pradeep was recorded on 06.07.2023, wherein she replied that M/s Suresh Forex Services Pvt Ltd receives INRs minimum 2 times in a month from Mr. Shaji; that each transactions contains approximately Rs 20 Lakhs to 30 Lakhs; that in return [2024] 9 S.C.R. 333 Jaseela Shaji v. The Union of India & Ors. to that Suresh will give one packet and direct her to hand over the same to the representative of Mr. Shaji. vi. Statement of Shri Shaji A.K. i.e. you were recorded on 11.0.7.2023 wherein you, inter-alia, stated that you buy foreign currencies from foreign currency dealers and buy from people who are NRI’s in Kerala when they come home; that these are done without any documents; that you mainly purchase foreign currency from traders like Suresh of Suresh Forex at Kottayam, Native of Parur Shambu, Simon from Kottayam, etc. ; that you have also given currencies to people going abroad from Kerala; that mainly you sell currency to Khader from Chennai; that the currency collected from Kerala will be sent to Chennai via Madhurai by bus; that this will be given to Khader’s shop or you will inform Khader that you reached Chennai and he will come to the lodge where you are staying, or Khader’s people will come and collect the foreign currency from you and give you the equivalent INR; that these are also done without any documents; that other than Khader, you used to sell to Anas; that Khader’s firm is at Chennai Paris and Burma Bazar, that to date, you purchased around Rs 25 crores worth of foreign currency from Kerala and sold that to Khader, that usually you used to go to Chennai; that other than you, your son Hyder Shaji, Anas Erattupetta, Siraj Erattupetta, etc. are the carries of foreign currency to Chennai by bus; that this will be given to Khader, that all these are done without keeping any accounts and documents; that the calculations prepared for your knowledge will be destroyed after the transaction is completed; that was the foreign currency transaction you made and its calculations; that the first page indicates the value of Indian currency equivalent to the rate of foreign currency; that the second page indicates the details of the persons who carry foreign currency to Chennai and the quantity of currency sent; that those were written on white paper and took its images; that 334 [2024] 9 S.C.R.