However, the position on the issue witnessed a change with subsequent decisions of this Court in P.K. Ramaiah and Company v. Chairman and Managing Director, National Thermal Power Corporation reported in 1994 Supp (3) SCC 126 and Nathani Steels Ltd. v. Associated Constructions reported in 1995 Supp (3) SCC 324. 64. In P.K. Ramaiah (supra), the decision in Damodar Valley (supra) was distinguished on facts, and it was held that once “full and final settlement” is arrived at, no arbitral dispute subsists, and hence there can be no referral to arbitration. The relevant observations made therein are as follows: “6. [….] If there is an arbitrable dispute, it shall be referred to the named arbitrator. But there must exist a subsisting dispute. Admittedly the appellant acknowledged in writing accepting the correctness of the measurements as well as the final settlement and received the amount. Thereafter no arbitrable dispute arise for reference. xxx xxx xxx 8. […] Accordingly, we hold that the appellant having acknowledged the settlement and also accepted 872 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports measurements and having received the amount in full and final settlement of the claim, there is accord and satisfaction. There is no existing arbitrable dispute for reference to the arbitration. The High Court is, therefore, right in its finding in this behalf. The appeals are dismissed but in the circumstances without costs.” 65. In Nathani Steels (supra), relying upon the decision in P.K. Ramaiah (supra) it was observed thus: “3. […] It would thus be seen that once there is a full and final settlement in respect of any particular dispute or difference in relation to a matter covered under the Arbitration clause in the contract and that dispute or difference is finally settled by and between the parties, such a dispute or difference does not remain to be an arbitrable dispute and the Arbitration clause cannot be invoked even though for certain other matters, the contract may be in subsistence. […]” 66. It is important to note that the aforesaid four decisions were rendered in the context of appointment of arbitrator under the Arbitration Act, 1940. With the introduction of the Act, 1996, a different regime came into being insofar as the question of appointment of arbitrator is concerned. In Jayesh Engineering Works v New India Assurance Co. Ltd. reported in (2000) 10 SCC 178, dealing with an application for appointment of arbitrator under the Act, 1996, a position similar to the one taken in Amar Nath (supra) was taken by this Court. It was held thus: “1. […] Whether any amount is due to be paid and how far the claim made by the Appellant is tenable are matters to be considered by the Arbitrator. In fact, whether the contract has been fully worked out and whether the payments have been made in full and final settlement are questions to be considered by the Arbitrator when there is a dispute regarding the same. […]” 67. While the aspect of “accord and satisfaction” in the specific context of the appointment of arbitrator has been discussed by this Court on numerous occasions, we also deem it necessary to refer to and [2024] 7 S.C.R.