7.3 The Transferor1, the Transferor2 and the Transferee shall give full and timely cooperation to each other for the pursuit of such case or matter. The Transferee shall promptly give necessary authorization, power of attorney, board resolution, etc. for pursuit of such case or matter to the Transferor1 and the Transferor2. ” [Emphasis Supplied] 26. Clause 7.1 of the Scheme states without any ambiguity that any legal or other proceeding by or against JAL or its unit operating the cement project relating to the JAL Business as defined in Clause 1.1(w), initiated on or arising and pending before the Effective Date shall remain with JAL. 27. It is pertinent to note that the subject land was acquired under the compulsory provisions of the 1894 Act to provide a safety zone for the cement plant and mining areas. Therefore, the land was acquired in connection with the JAL Business. The acquisition proceedings began with the notification issued under Section 4 dated 25.07.2008 which was stayed by the High Court of Himachal Pradesh on 14.12.2011. After the disposal of the writ petitions filed by the original landowners, the operation of the stay on the acquisition proceedings came to an end on 23.06.2016. As the next step towards the proceedings, an Award dated 08.06.2018 was passed. The facts indicate that the land acquisition proceedings had commenced before the Effective Date of the Scheme (i.e. 29.06.2017) and the compensation remained undetermined as on the Effective Date. To our understanding, these facts attract the application of Clause 7.1 of the Scheme as the acquisition proceedings and the liability to pay compensation associated with it squarely falls within the meaning of ‘other proceedings’ as intended by the parties under the said Clause. 28. JAL has also not disputed that it had made payment of the amount determined under the Award of 2018 i.e., Rs. 10,77,53,842/- after [2024] 9 S.C.R. 463 M/s Ultra-Tech Cement Ltd. v. Mast Ram & Ors. the Effective Date of the Scheme. The said amount has already been disbursed to the landowners. There is nothing on record to show that the payment of compensation amount at that time was contested by JAL. 29. Further, the exercise of determination of compensation amount which is a part of the acquisition proceedings remained pending even after the Effective Date of the Scheme. After the LAC determined the amount under the Award dated 08.06.2018, JAL paid the same without any protest or reference to the Scheme. Therefore, at the stage of the Supplementary Award pertaining to the same land and same original landowners, JAL cannot be allowed to take the plea that the payments with respect to the subject land were required to be made by the Appellant. 30. As regards the contention of JAL that the subject land formed an integral part of the cement project transferred to the Appellant for the purpose of payment of compensation determined under the Supplementary Award, we find it difficult to accept the same. The subject land was acquired as a safety zone for the cement project and in light of the several safety hazards as stated in the Award No.