However, for the purpose of employment in public services, the appellant made application for issuance of Scheduled Caste community certificate. Upon enquiry, the said application was rejected by the respondent No.3 by dated 29.03.2016, as affirmed by the appellate authorities. Subsequently, as directed [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1515 C. Selvarani v. The Special Secretary-Cum-District Collector and Others by the High Court,11 the said of rejection was withdrawn by the respondent No.3 and the documents referred to in the same were furnished to the appellant. On receipt of the documents, the appellant filed her reply along with the required documents, including the community certificates issued by the Deputy Tahsildar, Taluk Office Puducherry in favour of the appellant’s father Christian S/o Mounien, appellant’s brother Selvaraj S/o Christian and the appellant Selvarani D/o Christian, transfer certificates issued by the school and college authorities and the common statement made by four individuals viz., Punniyakodi, Paramadayalam, Gabrial and Dess of the same village, indicating that the appellant professes Hindu religion and belongs to Scheduled Caste (Adi Dravida) Community. Thereafter, the respondent No.3, placing reliance on the report of the Village Administrative Officer, denied the claim of the appellant on the premise that she embraced Christianity and therefore, she did not fulfill the eligibility criteria for issuance of Scheduled Caste community certificate, by dated 19.06.2017. The said rejection was upheld by the appellate authorities as well as by the High Court. Therefore, this Civil Appeal, at the instance of the appellant. 10. As rightly held by the Kerala High Court in Sapna Jacob, Minor v. State of Kerala,12 the Court cannot test or gauge the sincerity of religious belief; or where there is no question of the genuineness of a person’s belief in a certain religion, the court cannot measure its depth or determine whether it is an intelligent conviction or ignorant and superficial fancy. But, a Court can find the true intention of men lying behind their acts and can certainly find from the circumstances of a case whether a pretended conversion was really a means to some further end. Therefore, we shall determine the issue involved herein in the light of the factual matrix as well as the documentary evidence. 11. As is evident from the records, the dated 19.06.2017 was passed by the Tahsildar, Taluk Office, Puducherry, after furnishing the appellant all the necessary documents, including the letter sent by the objector Anand, certified copies of the entry in the Register of Baptism in respect of the appellant and her brother and the extract from the 11 vide dated 10.03.2017 passed in W.P.No.43516 of 2016 12 AIR 1993 Ker 75 1516 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Register of Marriage in respect of the parents of the appellant, kept in Lourdes Shrine, Villianur, Village Administrative Officer’s report dated 24.11.2015 as endorsed by the Revenue Inspector, Mudaliarpet Firka and upon considering the reply submitted by the appellant and hence, there is no violation of the principles of natural justice. 12. Apparently, the appellant, in her reply, inter alia stated that her mother, after marriage, had converted to Hinduism and started to profess the same; the appellant is having more affinity in professing Hinduism and has been attending Hindu temples and offering worship to Hindu deities and at no point of time, she professed Christianity; the caste certificates issued in favour of the appellant, her father and brother hold good as long as they are not cancelled by the authority concerned; and due to political enmity with her brother, the said Anand gave objection for issuing Scheduled Caste community certificate to her; and it is the statement given by four persons viz., Punniyakodi, Paramadayalan, Gabriel and Dess that the appellant’s father and appellant belong to Adi Dravida Hindu community.