No matter by what means the duty is imposed. If a positive obligation exists mandamus cannot be denied.” (Emphasis supplied) 33. In para 14, the Court spelled out two exceptions to the writ of mandamus viz. (i ) if the rights are purely of a private character, no mandamus can issue; and (ii ) if the management of the college is purely a private body “with no public duty”, mandamus will not lie. The Court clarified that since the Trust in the said case was an aided institution, because of this reason, it discharges public function, like government institution, by way of imparting education to students, more particularly when rules and regulations of the affiliating university are applicable to such an institution, being an aided institution. In such a situation, the Court held that the service conditions of academic staff were not purely of a private character as the staff had super-added protection by university’s decision creating a legal right and duty relationship between the staff and 2208 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the management. Further, the Court explained in para 19 that the term “authority” used in Article 226, in the context, would receive a liberal meaning unlike the term in Article 12, inasmuch as Article 12 was relevant only for the purpose of enforcement of fundamental rights under Article 32, whereas Article 226 confers power on the High Courts to issue writs not only for enforcement of fundamental rights but also non-fundamental rights. What is relevant is the dicta of the Court that the term “authority” appearing in Article 226 of the Constitution would cover any other person or body performing public duty. The guiding factor, therefore, is the nature of duty imposed on such a body, namely, public duty to make it exigible to Article 226. 34. In K. Krishnamacharyulu (supra), this Court again emphasised that where there is an interest created by the Government in an institution to impart education, which is a fundamental right of the citizens, the teachers who impart the education get an element of public interest in performance of their duties. In such a situation, remedy provided under Article 226 would be available to the teachers. 35. However, both the decisions referred to abovea pertain to educational institutions and in the said cases, the function of imparting education was treated as the performance of the public duty, that too by those bodies where, the aided institutions were discharging the said functions like Government institutions and the interest was created by the Government in such institutions to impart education. 36. In Satimbla Sharma (supra), the school therein was initially established as a mission school by the respondent No. 2. The school adopted the 10+2 system in 1993 and got affiliated to the Himachal Pradesh Board of School Education. Before independence in 1947, the school was receiving grant-in-aid from the British Indian Government and thereafter from the Government of India up to 1950. Between 1951 and 1966, the school received grant-in-aid from the State Government of Punjab.