iv. Issue No. 1: Whether the suspension of legal proceedings as envisaged under Section 22(1) of the 1985 Act would extend to a civil suit for recovery of money even if the debt sought to be proved in the plaint has not been admitted by the sick industrial company? If so, whether the decree in favour of the original plaintiff could be said to be coram non-judice? 62. To answer the issue before us, it is important to first delineate the scope of the relevant provision, which is reproduced hereinbelow: “22. Suspension of legal proceedings, contracts, etc.— (1) Where in respect of an industrial company, an inquiry under section 16 is pending or any scheme referred to under section 17 is under preparation or consideration or a sanctioned scheme is under implementation or where an appeal under section 25 relating to an industrial company is pending, then, notwithstanding anything contained in the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956) or any other law or the memorandum and articles of association of the industrial company or any other instrument having effect under the said Act or other law, no proceedings for the winding up of the industrial company or for execution, distress or the like against any of the properties of the industrial company or for the appointment of a receiver in respect thereof and no suit for the recovery of money or for the enforcement [2024] 5 S.C.R. 347 Fertilizer Corporation of India Limited & Ors. v. M/s Coromandal Sacks Private Limited of any security against the industrial company or of any guarantee in respect of any loans or advance granted to the industrial company shall lie or be proceeded with further, except with the consent of the Board or, as the case may be, the Appellate Authority….” 63. Section 22(1) of the 1985 Act provides that subject to the fulfilment of the conditions as described in the sub-section, proceedings of the nature mentioned therein shall remain suspended in respect of a sick industrial company. 64. For the bar under the said sub-section to get attracted, it is necessary that in respect of an industrial company: I. An inquiry under Section 16 of the 1985 Act is pending; OR II. A scheme under Section 17 of the 1985 Act is under preparation or consideration; OR III. A sanctioned scheme is under implementation; OR IV. An appeal under Section 25 of the 1985 Act is pending. 65. If one of the four conditions as mentioned aforesaid is fulfilled, then notwithstanding anything contained in the Companies Act, 1956 or any other law or the memorandum and articles of association of the industrial company or any other instrument having effect under the Companies Act, 1956 or other law, proceedings in the nature of the following cannot be initiated, and if already initiated, cannot be proceeded with, except with the consent of the BIFR or the AAIFR, as the case may be: I. Winding up of the industrial company; II. Execution, distress or the like against any of the properties of the industrial company; III.