If such an authority violates the fundamental right or other legal rights [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2205 Army Welfare Education Society New Delhi v. Sunil Kumar Sharma & Ors. Etc. of any person or citizen (as the case may be), a writ petition can be filed under Article 226 of the Constitution invoking the extraordinary jurisdiction of the High Court and seeking appropriate direction, or writ. However, under Article 226 of the Constitution, the power of the High Court is not limited to the Government or authority which qualifies to be “State” under Article 12. Power is extended to issue directions, s or writs “to any person or authority”. Again, this power of issuing directions, s or writs is not limited to enforcement of fundamental rights conferred by Part III, but also “for any other purpose”. Thus, power of the High Court takes within its sweep more “authorities” than stipulated in Article 12 and the subject-matter which can be dealt with under this Article is also wider in scope. 30. There are three decisions of this Court we must look into and discuss. 31. The first is Shri Anadi Mukta Sadguru Shree Muktajee Vandasjiswami Suvarna Jayanti Mahotsav Smarak Trust & Ors. v. V. R. Rudani & Ors. reported in (1989) 2 SCC 691 and the other two s, we are talking about are K. Krishnamacharyulu & Ors. v. Sri Venkateswara Hindu College of Engineering & Anr. reported in 1997 (3) SCC 571 and Satimbla Sharma v. St. Paul’s Senior Secondary School, reported in (2011) 13 SCC 760. 32. In Shri Anadi Mukta Sadguru (supra), dispute arose between the Trust which was managing and running science college and teachers of the said college. It pertained to payment of certain employment related benefits like basic pay, etc. The matter was referred to the Chancellor of Gujarat University for his decision. The Chancellor passed an award, which was accepted by the University as well as the State Government and a direction was issued to all affiliated colleges to pay their teachers in terms of the said award. However, the aforesaid Trust running the science college did not implement the award. Teachers filed the writ petition seeking mandamus and direction to the Trust to pay them their dues of salary, allowances, provident fund and gratuity in accordance therewith. It is in this context an issue arose as to whether the writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution was maintainable against the said Trust which was admittedly not a statutory body or authority under Article 12 of the Constitution as it was a private Trust running an educational institution. The High Court held that the writ petition was maintainable and the said view was upheld by this Court in the aforesaid . 2206 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports The discussion which is relevant for our purposes is contained in paras 14 to 19. However, we would like to reproduce paras 14, 16 and 19, which read as under:- “14. If the rights are purely of a private character no mandamus can issue.