for the Appellant. Ms. Aishwarya Bhati, A.S.G., Mrigank Pathak, Rajat Nair, Ms. Shagun Thakur, Ms. Chitrangda Rastvara, Ms. Neelakshi Bhadauria, Arvind Kumar Sharma, Advs. for the Respondent. / of the Supreme Court Abhay S. Oka, J. FACTUAL ASPECTS 1. The appellant is being prosecuted for the offences punishable under Sections 121, 121A and 122 of the Indian Penal Code (for short, ‘the IPC’) and Sections 13, 18, 18A and 20 of the Unlawful Activities [2024] 8 S.C.R. 635 Jalaluddin Khan v. Union of India (Prevention) Act, 1967 (for short, ‘the UAPA’). A charge sheet was filed on 7th January 2023. He is shown as accused no.2 in the charge sheet. The appellant applied for bail before the Special Court under the UAPA, which was rejected. Hence, the appellant and some co- accused applied for bail before the High Court. By the impugned , the prayer for bail made by the appellant was rejected, while bail was granted to a co-accused. SUBMISSIONS 2. The submission of Ms Mukta Gupta, learned senior counsel, is that there is absolutely no material to link the appellant with the offences under the UAPA. She pointed out that, at highest, the allegation is that the appellant’s wife was the owner of a building known as Ahmad Palace and that the appellant had clandestinely shown that premises on the first floor of the said building were given on rent to one Athar Parwez – Accused no. 1. The allegation is that, the first floor premises are being used for objectional activities of an organisation called Popular Front of India (PFI). She submitted that taking the charge sheet as it is, no connection has been established between the activities of PFI and the appellant. Even prima facie material for connecting the appellant with PFI is not available. She submitted that various people occupy other premises in the building. The building has a pathology laboratory, a clinic, and shops. She pointed out that, therefore, CCTV cameras were fixed on the property. She submitted that if the activities of PFI were really being carried out in the building with the connivance of the appellant, he would not fix CCTV cameras inside the property. She would submit that the appellant’s case satisfies the tests laid down by Section 43D (5) of the UAPA, as there are no reasonable grounds for believing that the accusations against the appellant are prima facie true. Learned senior counsel relied upon a decision of this Court in the case of Shoma Kanti Sen v. State of Maharashtra and another.1 3. Ms Aishwarya Bhati, learned Additional Solicitor General of India, invited our attention to statements of the protected witnesses V, Y, and Z, tendered on record, in a sealed cover. She pointed out that CCTV footage seized by the Investigating Agency of the building Ahmad Palace shows that on 6th and 7th July 2022, the appellant 1 [2024] 4 SCR 270 : (2024) 6 SCC 591 636 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports and accused no.