Insofar as the representation made by the detenu to the Advisory Board is concerned, the Advisory Board opined that there was sufficient cause for detention of the detenu. Hence the Central Government vide dated 28th November 2023 confirmed the detention and further directed that the detenu be detained for a period of one year from the date of his detention i.e. from 2nd September 2023. 3.7 Being aggrieved by the detention of the detenu, the appellant herein approached the Kerala High Court by way of habeas corpus petition being Writ Petition (Criminal) No. 1271 of 2023. By the impugned and dated 4th March 2024, the said writ petition came to be rejected. 3.8 Being aggrieved thereby, the appellant has approached this Court by way of present Appeal by special leave. 4. We have heard Shri Gaurav Aggarwal, learned Senior Counsel appearing for the appellant and Shri Nachiketa Joshi, learned Senior Counsel appearing for the respondent(s). 5. Shri Gaurav Aggarwal, learned Senior Counsel, submits that in the present case, the material against the detenu could not have led any reasonable person to come to the conclusion that there was a case made out against the detenu to detain him. The Detaining Authority has not applied his/her mind to the material in proper perspective resulting in an unsustainable of preventive detention. The learned Senior Counsel in this respect relied on the of this Court in the case of Ameena Begum vs. State of Telangana and others.8 6. Shri Gaurav Aggarwal further submits that a perusal of the grounds of detention dated 31st August 2023 would clearly show that the 8 [2023] 11 SCR 958 : (2023) 9 SCC 587 320 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports statements of Ms. Preetha Pradeep were relied upon by the Detaining Authority while arriving at its subjective satisfaction. He submits that the said statements were admittedly not provided to the detenu. It is, therefore, submitted that non-supply of the material on which the subjective satisfaction was arrived at would affect the right of the detenu guaranteed under Article 22(5) of the Constitution of India to make an effective representation. It is, therefore, submitted that the detention is liable to be set aside on the said ground. The learned Senior Counsel in this respect has relied on the following s of this Court in the cases of: (i) M. Ahamedkutty vs. Union of India and another;9 (ii) Radhakrishnan Prabhakaran vs. State of T.N. and others;10 (iii) J. Abdul Hakeem vs. State of T.N. and others11 (iv) State of Tamil Nadu and another vs. Abdullah Kadher Batcha and another;12 and (v) Union of India vs. Ranu Bhandari.13 7. Shri Gaurav Aggarwal further submits that the detenu had submitted his representation on 27th September 2023 to the Jail Authorities for onward transmission to the Detaining Authority and the Central Government. He submits that a perusal of the counter affidavit of the respondents would reveal that the Jail Authorities sent the representations of the detenu by ordinary post, which could not be traced.