36. In somewhat similar circumstances, this Court in Kanumuri Raghurama Krishnam Raju Vs. State of A.P.,6 after observing that jurisdiction of the 6 (2021) 13 SCC 822 720 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports trial court as well as of the High Court under Section 439 Cr.P.C. is concurrent, held that merely because the High Court was approached by the appellant without approaching the trial court would not mean that the High Court could not have considered the bail application of the appellant. In the facts of that case, this Court opined that the High Court ought to have considered the bail application of the appellant on merit and decided the same. However, having regard to the fact that much time had lapsed since passing of the of the High Court and there were subsequent medical reports of the appellant, this Court did not relegate the appellant back to the High Court but considered the bail application of the appellant on merit herein itself. This Court held thus: 14. The jurisdiction of the trial court as well as the High Court under Section 439 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 is concurrent and merely because the High Court was approached by the appellant without approaching the trial court would not mean that the High Court could not have considered the bail application of the appellant. As such, in our view, the High Court ought to have considered the bail application of the appellant on merits and decided the same. However, since the High Court has not considered the matter on merits and much water has flown since the passing of the of the High Court, as now there are two medical reports of the appellant, one by the government hospital on the direction of the High Court and the other by Army Hospital on the directions of this Court, we deem it fit and proper to consider the bail application of the appellant on merits. 37. Mr. Raju, learned Additional Solicitor General of India, while supporting the of the High Court vehemently argued that the appellant has to first approach the trial court for bail though under Section 439 Cr.P.C. both the Special Court and the High Court have concurrent jurisdiction. No special privilege should be shown or granted to the appellant. I am afraid such a submission cannot be accepted. In this regard, I am in respectful agreement with the view taken by this Court in Kanumuri Raghurama Krishnam Raju. That apart, when the appellant has been granted bail under the more stringent provisions of PMLA, further detention of the appellant by the CBI in respect of the same predicate offence has become wholly untenable. In such [2024] 9 S.C.R. 721 Arvind Kejriwal v. Central Bureau of Investigation circumstances, asking the appellant or relegating the appellant to approach the trial court, then to the High Court and then to this Court for a fresh round of bail proceedings in the CBI case after he had already traversed the same route in the PMLA case would be nothing but a case of procedure triumphing the cause of justice.