Digital Supreme Court Reports dated 19.03.2012 directing the authority not to deport the appellant during the pendency of the proceedings before itself. However, ultimately vide the dated 23.11.2015, the High Court dismissed the Writ Petition, which is assailed herein. SUBMISSIONS BY THE APPELLANT: 9. Learned counsel for the appellant submitted that he has been subjected to unfair treatment by the Tribunal as though he had entered appearance upon notice, one opportunity was required to be given to him since he was faced with serious penal consequences like detention and/or deportation from the country, which was not done. Further, it was submitted that even the High Court in the Impugned has gone on technicalities by accepting minor discrepancies in the documents which were not of the nature to lead to a presumption in law that the same were not correct and were merely differences in the spellings and date of birth. Even the medical certificate, which is disputed, has been issued by the consultant of the hospital, who was never examined. It was urged that as is known to everybody, on the prescription given to a patient, a doctor writes his opinion, record of which may not be maintained meticulously or even casually in a hospital which is at the level of the District, as may be done in big hospitals in cities. 10. It was submitted that the High Court has erroneously presumed that the ground for not appearing before the Tribunal was not genuine. Learned counsel contended that even if for the sake of argument it is presumed that the reason for his absence was not genuine, it cannot take away the basic fundamental right of the appellant to be heard, that too in such an important case, where the appellant stood not only to lose his nationality but also separation from his family and possible deportation to a foreign State which would obviously not accept him because he was born in India and thus, there was no occasion for any foreign country to accept him as its citizen. 11. It was submitted that earlier also, this Court in the present proceedings by dated 28.07.2017 had directed the Tribunal to decide the nationality of the appellant on merit by holding an enquiry and submit a report after hearing the appellant and the same has been done resulting in the Tribunal passing an opinion and on 16.11.2017 which has again declared the appellant to be a foreigner. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2335 Md. Rahim Ali @ Abdur Rahim v. The State of Assam & Ors. 12. It was submitted that such declaration is totally perverse in the face of overwhelming evidence to show that the appellant besides being born in India and being a resident in India for his entire life and his blood relatives i.e., siblings and parents having been Indian citizens much prior to the cut-off date, the appellant has still been singled out to be declared a foreigner which does not stand to reason. Another point which learned counsel canvassed was that there was no occasion for the appellant’s name to figure in the National Register of Citizens (hereinafter referred to as the “NRC”) as he was declared a foreigner way back in the year 2012 and as per the of this Court in Abdul Kuddus v Union of India (2019) 6 SCC 604, a person whose name is not included in the NRC and is declared a foreigner by the Tribunal can only move before the High Court in writ proceedings, the relevant being Paragraph 27.1 SUBMISSIONS BY THE STATE [RESPONDENTS NO.1 AND 3]: 13.