Therefore, trajectory of the shot would be from a height downwards. PW-1 was either sitting on the cot or on the floor and had taken evasive action (though PW-2 says that PW-1 stood up when the shot was fired); the mother was sitting diagonally on the other end of the cot. It is highly improbable that the shot fired at from such a close range and from a height downwards could have hit the left breast of the deceased who was sitting at a lateral distance and not behind PW-1. 19. Interestingly, neither Desh Raj, brother of PW-1 and son of the deceased, who was very much present at the place and time of occurrence was examined by the police nor the other brother Sunder Lal, the scribe, who had written the first information, was examined by the police. Omission to examine Desh Raj by the prosecution is most crucial as according to the prosecution version he was very much present when the incident occurred. We may also mention that the behaviour of Sunder Lal is also very unusual. He did not accompany PW-1 to the police station. There is also no evidence that he had rushed to the place of occurrence where his mother was killed. An adverse inference will have to be drawn against the prosecution for not examining material witnesses. Be that as it may, it was only PW-1 and PW-2 who had stated that Ram Singh had fired from a country made pistol at PW-1 but the bullet had hit mother of PW-1, who died of the bullet wound. On the other hand, [2024] 2 S.C.R. 679 Ram Singh v. The State of U.P. PW-3 categorically stated that he did not see accused Ram Singh carrying any country made pistol. Further, it has come on record that there was previous enmity between PW-1 and the accused relating to election of village Pradhan because of which there were cross cases between them. 20. The village Pradhan who testified as PW-5 stated that he was inside his house when he heard gunshot. He came to know that Dulli was killed about 10 to 15 minutes later when one Raja Ram, son of Prahalad Yadav, told him so while he was running by. Incidentally, the said Raja Ram was not examined by the police. 21. At this stage, what is noticeable is that the weapon of offence i.e. the country made pistol used by the accused in the offence, could not be recovered by the police and therefore not exhibited. Thus, the main material evidence i.e., the weapon of offence was not exhibited. In the seizure memo, it was mentioned that a 12 bore cartridge was lying on the cot and alongwith the tikli of the cartridge which was stuck on the wound of the deceased, were seized by the police. On the other hand, in the evidence of the doctor, PW-6 as well as from the post-mortem report, it has come on record that 55 small pellets were taken out from the body of the deceased during post-mortem.