57. It was underlined in Zahira Habibulla case [Zahira Habibulla H. Sheikh v. State of Gujarat, (2004) 4 SCC 158] that if ultimately the truth is to be arrived at, the eyes and ears of justice have to be protected so that the interest of justice do not get incapacitated in the sense of making the proceedings before the courts, mere mock trials. While elucidating that a court ought to exercise its powers under Section 311 of the Code and Section 165 of the Evidence Act judicially and with circumspection, it was held that such invocation ought to be only to subserve the cause of justice and the public interest by eliciting evidence in aid of a just decision and to uphold the truth. It was proclaimed that though justice is depicted to be blindfolded, it is only a veil not to see who the party before it is, while pronouncing on the cause brought before it by enforcing the law and administer justice and not to ignore or turn the attention away from [2024] 7 S.C.R. 361 Gaurav Maini v. The State of Haryana the truth of the cause or the lis before it, in disregard of its duty to prevent miscarriage of justice. That any indifference, inaction or lethargy displayed in protecting the right of an ordinary citizen, more particularly when a grievance is expressed against the mighty administration, would erode the public faith in the judicial system was underlined. It was highlighted that the courts exist to do justice to the persons who are affected and therefore they cannot afford to get swayed by the abstract technicalities and close their eyes to the factors which need to be positively probed and noticed. The following statement in Jennison v. Baker [Jennison v. Baker, (1972) 2 QB 52 : (1972) 2 WLR 429 : (1972) 1 All ER 997 (CA)] , was recalled : (QB p. 66) “… ‘The law should not be seen to sit by limply, while those who defy it go free, and those who seek its protection lose hope.’”” (emphasis supplied) 50. We are fully satisfied that the trial Court failed to perform its lawful obligation under Section 311 CrPC read with Section 165 of the Evidence Act inasmuch as, the most vital witness whose deposition was imperative for arriving at the truth of the matter i.e. Shamlal Garg was not produced by the prosecution and the trial Court took no steps whatsoever to summon him by exercising its powers under Section 311 CrPC and Section 165 of the Evidence Act. The fact that the FIR was not registered on the first disclosure of the incident made by Shamlal Garg to Surjit Singh, Investigating Officer(PW-37) and non-examination of the said witness at the trial is a fatal lacuna which persuades this Court to draw an adverse inference against the prosecution. 51. The trial Court as well as the High Court placed reliance upon the call detail records, concluding that the suspected mobile numbers were in use of Gaurav Maini(A1), Gaurav Bhalla(A2) and Sanjay @ Sanju(A4).