(3) The average sale price of any mineral grade/ concentrate in respect of a month shall be the weighted average of the ex-mine prices of the non-captive mines, accordance with computed the in above provisions, the weight being the quantity dispatched from the mining lease area of mineral grade I concentrate relevant to each ex-mine price.” 13. In other words, Rule 39(3) of the MCR, 2016 provides that royalty would be calculated as the percentage of the average of the ‘Sale Value’. The Sale Value of any graded mineral / concentrate for the purposes of these rules in terms of Rule 38 is the gross amount payable as per the sale invoice including the royalty, DMF and NMET paid. This Sale Value minus the actual expenditure incurred (without deducting the royalty, DMF and NMET in terms of the Explanation to Rule 38) would be the ex-mine price of such mineral grade / concentrate. The weighted average of this ‘ex-mine price’ shall be the ‘Average Sale Price’ for the purposes of calculating royalty. 14. Similarly, under the Mineral Conservation and Development Rules, 2017 (for short, the “MCDR, 2017”) that was enacted by the Central Government for the conservation and systematic development of minerals in exercise of its powers under Rule 18 of the MMDR Act, Rule 45(8)(b) provides that the ‘Sale Value’ for the purposes of the said rules is the gross amount payable without any deduction in respect of royalty, DMF and NMET paid. The said rule reads as under: - 82 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “45. Monthly and annual returns – (8) In case of mining of minerals by the holder of a mining lease, the – (b) ex-mine price of mineral grade or concentrate shall be,– (I) where export has occurred, the total of, sale value on free-on-board (F.O.B) basis, less the actual expenditure incurred beyond the mining lease area towards – (i) transportation charges by road; (ii) loading and unloading charges; (iii) railway freight (if applicable); (iv) port handling charges or export duty; (v) charges for sampling and analysis; (vi) rent for the plot at the stocking yard; (vii) handling charges in port; (viii) charges for stevedoring and trimming; (ix) any other incidental charges incurred outside the mining lease area as notified by the Indian Bureau of Mines from time-to-time, divided by the total quantity exported; (II) where domestic sale of mineral has occurred, the total of sale value of the mineral, less the actual expenditure incurred towards loading, unloading, transportation, rent for the plot at the stocking yard, charges for sampling and analysis and any other charges beyond mining lease area as notified by the Indian Bureau of Mines from time-to- time, divided by the total quantity sold; (III) where sale has occurred, between related parties and is not on arms’ length basis, then such sale shall not be recognised as a sale for the purposes of this rule and in such case, sub-clause shall be applicable; (IV) where the sale has not occurred, the average sale price published monthly by the Indian Bureau of Mines for that mineral grade or concentrate for a particular State: [2024] 12 S.C.R.