Digital Supreme Court Reports (ii) That, under Section 38V of the Wild Life (Protection) Act, 1972 (hereinafter referred to as “WLP Act”), the State Government, on the recommendations of the Tiger Conservation Authority, is required to notify an area as a tiger reserve. It is also required to prepare a Tiger Conservation Plan (hereinafter referred to as “TCP”) including the staff development and deployment plan for the proper management of each area to ensure the protection of the tiger reserve, ecologically compatible land uses in the tiger reserves and the forestry operations of regular forest divisions. (iii) That, under sub-section (4) of Section 38V of the WLP Act, the concept of integrity of Tiger Reserve requires protection of buffer area and adequate dispersal for the species. (iv) That, the TCP prepared by the National Tiger Conservation Authority (“NTCA” for short) proposed a Safari at the Karnashram area of Lansdowne Forest Division. However, the Central Zoo Authority (“CZA” for short) unilaterally changed the proposed site to Pakhrau Block, Kalagarh Division. (v) That, the WLP Act emphasizes on the conservation of wildlife and not tourism. However, establishing a zoo in a buffer area would amount to giving preference to tourism over wildlife protection. (vi) That, conservation of wildlife should be eco-centric and not anthropocentric. (vii) That, the provisions of the WLP Act would reveal that the National Board of Wildlife, State Board of Wildlife, Chief Wildlife Warden, and the NTCA are experts for in situ conservation of wildlife whereas the CZA is an expert body for ex situ mode of conservation. (viii) That, the final authority insofar as in situ ‘Tiger Safari’ is concerned should be exclusively within the domain of NTCA, which is an expert body insofar as conservation and protection of Tigers is concerned. He therefore submits that the 2019 Guidelines, which restore the primacy to the CZA, are against the said principle. (ix) That, until 2016, the regulatory regime only recognized safaris as being an ex-situ mode of conservation. [2024] 3 S.C.R. 207 In Re: T.N. Godavarman Thirumulpad v. Union of India & Ors. In Re: Gaurav Kumar Bansal (x) That, the ‘Tiger Safari’ is not defined under the WLP Act or any other statute. The concept of ‘Safari’ is found only in the proviso to Section 33(a). The proviso to Section 33(a) also bans the construction of ‘hotels, zoos and safari parks’ inside a sanctuary and National Parks without the prior approval of the National Board. (xi) That, for the first time, the concept of ‘‘Tiger Safari’’ in the wild was introduced by the Government in the Tourism Guidelines, 2012. It provided for the creation of ‘Tiger Safaris’ in the buffer areas of tiger reserves ‘which experience immense tourist influx in the core/critical tiger habitat for viewing tigers.’ (xii) That, the ‘‘Tiger Safari’’ as is envisaged, is not a measure of conservation but a means for tourism. (xiii) That, though the 2016 Guidelines provided that the injured, conflict or orphaned tigers may be exhibited in ‘Tiger Safaris’, the 2019 Guidelines provided that the animals shall be selected as per Section 38I of the WLP Act, providing thereby that the animals from the zoos would be brought in the ‘Tiger Safaris’.