Finally, the proportionality test must be applied to each. For convenience | will call this the ultimate balancing test. This is how | will approach the present case.” 55. The fourth principle, that is, the ultimate balancing test, was elaborated upon by Sir Mark Potter in In Re. ॥/71 in the following terms: “53. (...) each Article propounds a fundamental right which there is a pressing social need to protect. Equally, each Article qualifies the right it propounds so far as it may be lawful, necessary and proportionate to do so in to accommodate the other. The exercise to be performed is one of parallel analysis in which the starting point is presumptive parity, in that neither Article has precedence over or “trumps” the other. The exercise of parallel analysis requires the court to examine the justification for interfering with each right and the issue of proportionality is to be considered in respect of each. It is not a mechanical exercise to be decided upon the basis of rival generalities. An intense focus on the comparative importance of the specific rights being claimed in the individual case is necessary before the ultimate balancing test in terms of proportionality is carried out.” 56. Fundamental rights are not absolute, legislations/policies restricting the rights may be enacted in accordance with the scheme of the Constitution. However, it is now well settled that the provisions of fundamental rights in Part Ill of the Constitution are not independent silos and have to be read together as complementary rights. '?° Therefore, the thread of reasonableness applies to all such restrictions. '*' Secondly, Article 14, as observed by the Hon’ble Chief Justice in his ’ includes the facet of formal equality and substantive equality. Thus, the principle ‘equal protection of law’ requires the legislature and the executive to achieve factual equality. This principle can be extended 119 [20EWHC0 15564 ](Fam ). 120 Rustom Cavasjee Cooper v. Union of India, (1970) 1 SCC 248; K.S. Puttaswamy (9J) (Privacy) (supra), and Maneka Gandhi v. Union of India and Another, (1978) 1 SCC 248. 121 The test of single proportionality will apply. 122 See paragraphs 191 to 195 of the Hon’ble Chief Justice’s . [2024] 2 S.C.R. 597 Association for Democratic Reforms & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. to any restriction on fundamental rights which must be reasonable to the identified degree of harm. If the restriction is unreasonable, unjust or arbitrary, then the law should be struck down. Further, it is for the legislature to identify the degree of harm. | have referred to the said observation in the context that there appears to be a divergent opinion in PK.S.u ttasw(9-Ja) m(Priyvac y) (supra) as to whether right of privacy is an essential component for effective fulfilment of all fundamental rights or can be held to be a part or a component of Article 21 and Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution. 57. When we apply the fourth prong, that is the balancing prong of proportionality, | have no hesitation or doubt, given the findings recorded above, that the Scheme falls foul and negates and overwhelmingly disavows and annuls the voters right in an electoral process as neither the right of privacy nor the purpose of incentivising donations to political parties through banking channels, justify the infringement of the right to voters.