14. Hence, in view of the consequences which may arise by the reversal of the in Mukund Dewangan (supra), it would be appropriate if the entire matter is evaluated by the Government before this Court embarks upon the interpretative exercise. Once the Court is apprised of the considered view of the Union Government, the proceedings before the Constitution Bench can be taken up. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 561 M/s Bajaj Alliance General Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Rambha Devi & Ors. 15. We request the Union Government to carry out this exercise within a period of two months. 16. We clarify that we have not expressed any opinion on the merits of the referral dated 8 March 2022 or on the correctness of the decision in Mukund Dewangan (supra) which would await further arguments once the considered view of the Union Government is placed before this Court.” 8. In view of the consultative exercise being carried out by the government, the matter was deferred multiple times. On 16.4.2024, a note on the proposed set of amendments to the MV Act was submitted before this Court. On 21.8.2024, the learned Attorney General, R. Venkataramani had suggested that the matter be either deferred till the amendments are tabled before Parliament or the Court may conclude the pending hearing. We then proceeded to hear the part-heard matter on 21.8.2024. B. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF INSURANCE COMPANIES 9. We have heard Mr. Tushar Mehta, learned Solicitor General; learned Senior Counsel Mr. Siddhartha Dave, Mr. Jayant Bhushan; Ms. Archana Pathak Dave, Mr. Neeraj Kishan Kaul, learned Senior Counsel; Mr. Amit Kumar Singh and Mr. Shivam Singh, Learned Counsel on behalf of the Insurance Companies. Mr. PB Suresh appeared as a supporting Intervenor for the ‘The Society against Drunk Driving’. 9.1. Mr. Siddhartha Dave, learned Senior Counsel took us through those provisions of the MV Act and MV Rules that create a distinction between ‘Light Motor Vehicles’ and ‘Transport Vehicles’. 9.2. The Counsel drew the Court’s attention to Section 3 of the MV Act which stipulates the ‘necessity for a driving license’ to drive a motor vehicle. He referred to the second part of the provision which states that ‘no person shall so drive a transport vehicle…unless his driving license specifically entitles him so to do.’ It was contended that Mukund Dewangan (2017) overlooked that there was a specific mention of ‘transport vehicle’ in Section 3 which would indicate that a license for a ‘light motor vehicle’ cannot be used for driving a ‘transport vehicle’. 562 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 9.3. Mr. Dave further argued that the eligibility for obtaining a license for transport vehicles is more stringent than for Light Motor Vehicles. Since transport vehicles are primarily utilized for carrying passengers and goods, the additional requirements are essential for ensuring road safety. Adverting to Section 4 of the MV Act, which sets out the age limit, the Counsel highlighted that the minimum age for securing a driving license for ‘motor vehicles’ is 18 years but for driving ‘transport vehicles’, Section 4(2) provides that the minimum age would be 20.