33. The ultimate object of justice is to find out the truth and punish the guilty and protect the innocent 1394 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports To find out the truth is a herculean task in majority of these complaints. The tendency of implicating husband and all his immediate relations is also not uncommon. At times, even after the conclusion of criminal trial, it is difficult to ascertain the real truth. The courts have to be extremely careful and cautious in dealing with these complaints and must take pragmatic realities into consideration while dealing with matrimonial cases. The allegations of harassment of husband’s close relations who had been living in different cities and never visited or rarely visited the place where the complainant resided would have an entirely different complexion. The allegations of the complaint are required to be scrutinized with great care and circumspection. Experience reveals that long and protracted criminal trials lead to rancour, acrimony and bitterness in the relationship amongst the parties. It is also a matter of common knowledge that in cases filed by the complainant if the husband or the husband’s relations had to remain in jail even for a few days, it would ruin the chances of amicable settlement altogether. The process of suffering is extremely long and painful. 34. Before parting with this case, we would like to observe that a serious relook of the entire provision is warranted by the legislation. It is also a matter of common knowledge that exaggerated versions of the incident are reflected in a large number of complaints. The tendency of over implication is also reflected in a very large number of cases. 35. The criminal trials lead to immense sufferings for all concerned. Even ultimate acquittal in the trial may also not be able to wipe out the deep scars of suffering of ignominy. Unfortunately a large number of these complaints have not only flooded the courts but also have led to enormous social unrest affecting peace, harmony and happiness of the society…” (underlining by us) [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1395 Rinku Baheti v. Sandesh Sharda 11. In this context we wish to observe that a Hindu marriage is a sacrament and is considered to be a sacred institution as a foundation for a family and not a commercial venture. One of us (Nagarathna, J.) in Dolly Rani vs. Manish Kumar Chanchal, (2024) 5 SCR 510 speaking for the Bench observed therein as under: “26. The promises made to each by the parties to a Hindu marriage and the oath taken by them to remain friends forever lay the foundation for a life-long commitment between the spouses which should be realized by them. If such commitment to each other is adhered to by the couple, then there would be far fewer cases of breakdown of marriages leading to divorce or separation.” 11.1 But unfortunately in the present case, the parties haven’t adhered to their marital oath. Which of the two parties was at fault for breaking that sacred marital bond is not something for this Court to go into, but from the aforementioned facts and circumstances, it would be safe to conclude that their marriage has completely failed.