(5) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (4), in respect of an invoice or debit note for supply of goods or services or both pertaining to the Financial Years 2017-18, 2018-19, 2019-20 and 2020-21, the registered person shall be entitled to take input tax credit in any return under section 39 which is filed up to the thirtieth day of November, 2021. (6) Where registration of a registered person is cancelled under Section 29 and subsequently the cancellation of registration is revoked by any , either under Section 30 or pursuant to any made by the Appellate Authority or the Appellate Tribunal or court and where availment of input tax credit in respect of an invoice or debit note was not restricted under sub-section (4) on the date of of cancellation of registration, the said person shall be entitled to take the input tax credit in respect of such invoice or debit note for supply of goods or services or both, in a return under Section 39,— (i) filed up to thirtieth day of November following the financial year to which such invoice or debit note pertains or furnishing of the relevant annual return, whichever is earlier; or (ii) for the period from the date of cancellation of registration or the effective date of cancellation of 824 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports registration, as the case may be, till the date of of revocation of cancellation of registration, where such return is filed within thirty days from the date of of revocation of cancellation of registration, whichever is later.” (emphasis added) From sub-section (1) of Section 16, it is apparent that only a registered person, as defined by Section 2(94) of the CGST Act, can avail of ITC. A person who is registered under Section 25 of the CGST Act becomes a registered person. The availability of ITC is subject to such conditions and restrictions as may be prescribed. The word “prescribed” is defined to mean prescribed by the rules made under the CGST Act. Therefore, the entitlement to ITC is subject to conditions and restrictions as may be provided in the Rules framed under the CGST Act. ITC has to be availed in the manner laid down by Section 49. Sub-section (2) of Section 49 and other sub-sections deal with how ITC can be availed. Under sub-section (1) of Section 16, a registered person is entitled to take credit of the input tax charged on any supply of goods or services or both to him, which are used or intended to be used in the course of or in furtherance of his business. Input tax is defined by Section 2(62). In relation to a registered person, it means Central, State, Integrated or Union Territory tax charged on the supply of goods or services or both made to him. It includes the tax payable by him on a reverse charge basis under sub-sections (3) and (4) of Section 9. Further conditions for the use of ITC are prescribed by sub-section (2) of Section 16.