(d) State’s Competence to sub-classify or sub-divide or re- group the Castes specified as “Scheduled Castes” in the Presidential List for providing the reservation under Article 15 and 16: - 48. It may be noted that the terminology “Backward Class” has not been defined or described anywhere in the Constitution, however the said terminology finds place in the various provisions in the Constitution. Part XVI of the Constitution deals with special provisions relating to certain classes, i.e. for Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, Anglo-Indian Community, Backward Class, Socially and Educationally Backward Class etc. Articles 330 and 332 provide for the reservation [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1625 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. of seats for the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in the House of the People and in the Legislative Assemblies of the States. Article 335 states that the claims of the member of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes shall be taken into consideration, consistently, with the maintenance of efficiency of administration, in the making of appointments to services and posts in connection with the affairs of the Union and of a State. Article 338, 338(A) and 338(B) provides for the constitution of the National Commissions for the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and for Backward Classes respectively. As per the definition of “Scheduled Castes” contained in Article 366(24), “Scheduled Castes” means such castes, races or tribes or parts of or groups within such castes, races or tribes as are deemed under Article 341 to be Scheduled Castes for the purposes of the Constitution. Similar definitions are contained in Article 366(25) for the “Scheduled Tribes” and in Article 366(26C) for the “socially and educationally backward classes”. 49. Article 15(4) enables the State to make special provision for the advancement of any socially and educationally backward classes of citizens or for the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. The newly added Clause (5) in Article 15 (w.e.f. 20.01.2006) enables the State, by law to make special provisions for the advancement of any socially and educationally backward classes of citizens or for the Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes, so far as such provisions relate to their admission to educational institutions. Article 16(4) enables the State to make provision for the reservation of appointments or posts in favour of any backward class of citizens which in the opinion of the State, is not adequately represented in the services under the State. Subsequently inserted Clause (4A) in Article 16 (w.e.f. 17.6.1995) enables the State to make provision for reservation in the matters of promotions in the posts in the services under the State in favour of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes which in the opinion of the State are not adequately represented in the services under the State. Article 16(6) inserted by the Constitution (One Hundred and Third Amendment) Act, 2019 enables the State to make provision for the reservation in favour of any economically weaker sections of citizens other than the classes mentioned in Clause 4 i.e. backward class of citizens.