67 Section 2. Definitions. – In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, -- (j) ‘period of limitation’ means the period of limitation prescribed for any suit, appeal or application by the Schedule, and ‘prescribed period’ means the period of limitation computed in accordance with the provisions of this Act. 68 State of Goa v. Praveen Enterprises, (2012) 12 SCC 581, paragraph 16. 69 The Schedule (PERIODS OF LIMITATION) See sections 2(j) and 3: PART II - SUITS RELATING TO CONTRACTS [2024] 9 S.C.R. 557 OPG Power Generation Private Limited v. Enexio Power Cooling Solutions India Private Limited & Anr. Facts having material bearing on limitation 86. For a proper determination of the aforesaid issue, we need to have a close look at the material facts relevant to the issue of limitation. In our view, the material facts,70 inter alia, are: (a) There was a composite Tender inviting offer for design, manufacture, delivery to site, erection, testing and commissioning of an ACC unit with auxiliaries for a thermal power plant. (b) Enexio submitted a composite unpriced techno-commercial offer for the project. (c) On 5 November 2012, with reference to the techno offer, OPG addressed a letter71 expressing intent to award contract for the project at a composite cost of 44 crores. This letter also sets out a tentative date for completion / takeover of the project i.e., March 2014. Article No. Description of Suit Period of Limitation Time from which period begins to run 14. For the price of goods sold Three years The date of the delivery of the and delivered where no fixed goods period is agreed upon 18. For the price of work done by Three years When the work is done. the plaintiff for the defendant at his request, where no time has been fixed for payment. 55. For compensation for the Three years When the contract is broken or breach of any contract, (where there are successive express or implied not herein breaches) when the breach specially provided for. in respect of which the suit is instituted occurs or (where the breach is continuing) when it ceases. PART III – SUITS RELATING TO DECLARATIONS 58. To obtain any other Three years When the right to sue first Declaration accrues. PART X – SUITS FOR WHICH THERE IS NO PRESCRIBED PERIOD 113. Any suit for which no period of Three years When the right to sue limitation is provided elsewhere accrues. in this Schedule 70 As gathered from paragraph 7 (including sub paragraphs 7.01 to 7.76) of the Arbitral Award under the title ‘Background to the Dispute’ 71 Quoted in paragraph 79 (c) above 558 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (d) In that backdrop, on 4 March 2013, Gita Power (R-2) issued two separate s, one, for Design, Engineering and Supply of 1 Unit of ACC with Auxiliaries (Supply Purchase ) and, second, for Erection and Commissioning of it (Erection Purchase ). (e) Pursuant to these purchase s, on 1 April 2013, Enexio (R- 1) submitted a Work Schedule.