Indeed the object of conservation of the distinct language, script and culture of a minority may be better served by propagating the same amongst non-members of the particular minority community.” 119 “149. […] As observed quite aptly in St. Stephen’s case [(1992) 1 SCC 558] (at SCC p. 608, para 85) “the fact that Article 29(2) applies to minorities as well as non-minorities does not mean that it was intended to nullify the special right guaranteed to minorities in Article 30(1)”. The word “only” used in Article 29(2) is of considerable significance and has been used for some avowed purpose. Denying admission to non-minorities for the purpose of accommodating minority students to a reasonable extent will not be only on grounds of religion etc., but is primarily meant to preserve the minority character of the institution and to effectuate the guarantee under Article 30(1). The best possible way is to hold that as long as the minority educational institution permits admission of citizens belonging to the non-minority class to a reasonable extent based upon merit, it will not be an infraction of Article 29(2), even though the institution admits students of the minority group of its own choice for whom the institution was meant. What would be a reasonable extent would depend upon variable factors, and it may not be advisable to fix any specific percentage. The situation would vary according to [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1747 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. is mandated to admit students from other faiths and that in itself does not erode the minority character of the institution. 130. The third question was whether a minority education institution would lose its minority character when secular education is taught. In In re Kerala Education Bill (supra) and St. Xavier’s (supra), this Court held that the word ‘choice’ in Article 30(1) expands the scope of the provision to include not only religious but also secular education.120 131. The fourth question was whether it is essential that religious instruction must be provided in a minority educational institution. In TMA Pai (supra), this Court held that Article 28 equally applies to minority educational institutions.121 Thus, if the minority institution has received aid from the State wholly or in part, no student can be forced to participate in religious instruction. Similarly, a minority educational institution which is fully maintained out of State funds cannot provide religious instruction. Even here, a harmonious construction of Article 28 and Article 30(1) was adopted. the type of institution and the nature of education that is being imparted in the institution. Usually, at the school level, although it may be possible to fill up all the seats with students of the minority group, at the higher level, either in colleges or in technical institutions, it may not be possible to fill up all the seats with the students of the minority group. However, even if it is possible to fill up all the seats with students of the minority group, the moment the institution is granted aid, the institution will have to admit students of the non-minority group to a reasonable extent, whereby the character of the institution is not annihilated, and at the same time, the rights of the citizen engrafted under Article 29(2) are not subverted.