The Complainant states that the Accused has an intention of cheating the Complainant. The 2nd and 3rd Accused herein has no intention to pay the dues that they owe to the Complainant. Instead, making the complainant believe that the same would be paid and through which trying to push the liability to future. It is also pertinent to note that the 2nd and 3rd of the Accused herein are the Directors, promoters of the 1st Accused being the Company. The 2nd of the Accused herein is the authorized signatory, who is in-charge of and responsible for the day to day affairs of the Company, the 1st Accused.” 19. It can thus be seen that the only allegation against the present appellant is that the present appellant and the accused No.2 had no intention to pay the dues that they owe to the complainant. It is stated that the 2 nd accused and the 3rd accused (appellant herein) are the Directors, promoters of the 1st accused being the Company. It is further averred that the 2 nd accused is the authorized signatory, who is in-charge of and responsible for the day-to-day affairs of the Company, i.e., the 1st accused. 20. It can thus be clearly seen that there is no averment to the effect that the present appellant is in-charge of and responsible for the day-to-day affairs of the Company. It is also not the case of the 10 [2022] 14 SCR 573 : 2022 SCC OnLine SC 1383 660 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports respondent that the appellant is either the Managing Director or the Joint Managing Director of the Company. 21. It can thus clearly be seen that the averments made are not sufficient to invoke the provisions of Section 141 of the N.I. Act qua the appellant. 22. In the result, we find that the present appeals deserve to be allowed. It is ed accordingly. The and passed by the High Court dated 26th April, 2022 is quashed and set aside. The proceedings in CC Nos. 3151 and 3150 of 2017 on the file of learned XVIII Metropolitan Magistrate, Saidapet, Chennai (now transferred to the learned Metropolitan Magistrate, Fast Track Court-III, Saidapet, Chennai) in connection with the offence punishable under Section 138 read with Section 142 of the N.I. Act are quashed and set aside qua the present appellant. Headnotes prepared by: Ankit Gyan Result of the case: Appeals allowed.