If from the circumstances of a particular case, brought to the notice of the court, the court is satisfied that although there has been a disobedience but such disobedience is the result of some compelling circumstances under which it was not possible for the contemner to comply with the , the court may not punish the alleged contemner.” (emphasis added) [2024] 8 S.C.R. 435 In Re: Patanjali Ayurved Ltd. Through Its Mangg. Dir., Acharya Balkrishna & Baba Ramdev in The Matter of: Indian Medical Asso. and another v. Union of India and others 36. In Ashok Paper Kamgar Union v. Dharam Godha and Others,21 this Court observed that the expression “willful disobedience” deployed in Section 2(b) of the Act means an act or omission done voluntarily and intentionally with a specific intent to do something, which the law forbids or with a specific intention to fail to do something which the law requires to be done. The expression ‘willfulness’ signifies deliberate action done with evil intent and bad motive or purpose. It should not be an act which requires or is dependent either wholly or in part, on any act or omission of a third party for compliance. Holding that a willful act does not encompass any involuntary or negligent actions, this Court held in Ram Kishan (supra) as under : “12. Thus, in to punish a contemnor, it has to be established that disobedience of the is “wilful”. The word “wilful” introduces a mental element and hence, requires looking into the mind of a person/ contemnor by gauging his actions, which is an indication of one’s state of mind. “Wilful” means knowingly intentional, conscious, calculated and deliberate with full knowledge of consequences flowing therefrom. It excludes casual, accidental, bona fide or unintentional acts or genuine inability. Wilful acts does not encompass involuntarily or negligent actions. The act has to be done with a “bad purpose or without justifiable excuse or stubbornly, obstinately or perversely”. Wilful act is to be distinguished from an act done carelessly, thoughtlessly, heedlessly or inadvertently. It does not include any act done negligently or involuntarily. The deliberate conduct of a person means that he knows what he is doing and intends to do the same. Therefore, there has to be a calculated action with evil motive on his part. Even if there is a disobedience of an , but such disobedience is the result of some compelling circumstances under which it was not possible for the contemnor to comply with the , the contemnor cannot be punished. “Committal 21 (2003) 11 SCC 1 436 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports or sequestration will not be ed unless contempt involves a degree of default or misconduct.” (emphasis added) 37. In a recent decision of this Court in Balwantbhai Somabhai Bhandari (supra),22 in the above context, this Court has made the following relevant observations : “45. The sanctity to judicial proceedings is paramount to a society governed by law. Otherwise, the very edifice of democracy breaks and anarchy reigns.