Khangar : In the Bhandara, Buldhana and Saugor districts and the Hoshangabad and Seoni-Malwa tahsils of the Hoshangabad district. Khatik : In the Berar division, in the Balaghat, Bhandara, Chanda, Nagpur and Wardha districts, in the Hoshangabad tahsil of the Hoshangabad district, in the Chhindwara district, except in the Seoni subdivision thereof, and in the Saugor district, except in the Damoh subdivision thereof. Koli : In the Bhandara and Chanda district [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1461 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. Kori : In the Amraoti, Balaghat, Betul, Bhandara, Buldana, Chhindwara, Jubbulpore, Mandla, Nimar, Raipur and Saugor districts, and in the Hoshangabad district, except in the Harda and Sohagpur tahsils thereof. Kumhar : In the Bhandara and Saugor districts and the Hoshangabad and Seoni- Malwa tahsils of the Hoshangabad district. Madgi : In the Berar division, and in the Balaghat Bhandara, Chanda, Nagpur and Wardha districts. Mala : In the Balaghat, Betul, Chhindwara, Hoshangabad, Jubbulpore, Mandla, Nimar and Saugor districts. Mehra, or : Throughout the Province, except in Mahar the Harda and Sohagpur tahsils of the Hoshangabad district. Nagarchi : In the Balaghat, Bhandara, Chhindwara, Mandla, Nagpur and Raipur districts. Ojha : In the Balaghat, Bhandara and Mandla districts and the Hoshangabad tahsil of the Hoshangabad district. Panka : In the Berar division, in the Balaghat, Bhandara, Bilaspur, Chanda, Drug, Nagpur, Raipur, Saugor and Wardha districts and in the Chhindwara district except in the Seoni subdivision thereof. Pardhi : In the Narsinghpur subdivision of the Hoshangabad district. Pradhan : In the Berar division, in the Bhandara Chanda, Nagpur, Nimar, Raipur and Wardha districts and in the Chhindwara district, except in the Seoni subdivision thereof. Rujjhar : In the Sohagpur tahsil of the Hoshangabad district. 1462 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports PART VIII – ASSAM Scheduled Castes : - (1) In the Assam Valley : - Namasudra Hira Mehtar, or Bhangi Kaibartta Lalbegi Bansphor Bania, or Brittial-Bania (2) In the Surma Valley :- Mali, or Bhuimali Sutradhar Kaibartta, or Jaliya Dhupi, or Dhobi Muchi Lalbegi Dugla, or Dholi Patni Mehtar, or Bhangi Jhalo and Malo Namasudra Bansphor Mahara PART IX – ORISSA Scheduled castes : - (1) Throughout the Province :- Adi-Andhra Godra Mangan Audhelia Gokha Mehra, or Mahar Bariki Haddi, or Hari Mehtar, or Bhangi Basor,or Burud Irika Mochi, or Muchi Bavuri Jaggali Paidi Chachati Kandra Painda Chamar Kantia Pamidi Chandala Kela Panchama Dandasi Kodalo Panka Dewar Madari Relli Dhoba, or Dhobi Madiga Sapari Ganda Mahuria Satnami Ghusuria Mala Siyal Godagali Mang Valamiki Godari [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1463 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. (2) Throughout the Province except in the Khondmals district, the district of Sambalpur, and the areas transferred to Orissa under the provisions of the Government of India (Constitution of Orissa) , 1936, from the Vizagapatam and Ganjam Agencies in the Presidency of Madras:- Pan, or Pano (3) Throughout the Province except in the Khondmals district and the areas so transferred to Orissa from the said Agencies : - Dom, or Dombo (4) Throughout the Province except in the district of Sambalpur : Bauri Bhumij Turi Bhuiya Ghasi, or Ghasia (5) In the Nawapara subdivision of the district of Sambalpur: - Kori Nagarchi Pradhau C. K. Rhodes, Joint Secy.