v. Manbodhan Lal Srivastava,43 while construing Article 320 of the Constitution of India, interpretated the words ‘shall’ and ‘may’ as under: “11. …Hence, the use of the word “shall” in a statute, though generally taken in a mandatory sense, does not necessarily mean that in every case it shall have that effect, that is to say, that unless the words of the statute are punctiliously followed, the proceeding or the outcome of the proceeding, would be invalid. On the other hand, it is not always correct to say that where the word “may” has been used, the statute is only permissive or directory in the sense that non- compliance with those provisions will not render the proceeding invalid. In that connection, the following quotation from Crawford on Statutory Construction — Article 261 at p. 516, is pertinent: “The question as to whether a statute is mandatory or directory depends upon the intent of the legislature and not upon the language in which the intent is clothed. The meaning and intention of the legislature must govern, and these are to be ascertained, not only from the phraseology of the provision, but also by considering its nature, its design, and the consequences which would follow from construing it the one way or the other….” 32.3 In State of U.P. v. Babu Ram Upadhya,44 a Constitution Bench considered the interpretation of the word ‘shall’ as mandatory and observed as under: 43 [1958] 1 SCR 533 : 1957 SCC OnLine SC 4 44 [1961] 2 SCR 679 : 1960 SCC OnLine SC 5 [2024] 10 S.C.R. 359 Fuleshwar Gope v. Union of India & Ors. “29. The relevant rules of interpretation may be briefly stated thus : When a statute uses the word “shall”, prima facie, it is mandatory, but the Court may ascertain the real intention of the legislature by carefully attending to the whole scope of the statute. For ascertaining the real intention of the Legislature the Court may consider, inter alia, the nature and the design of the statute, and the consequences which would follow from construing it the one way or the other, the impact of other provisions whereby the necessity of complying with the provisions in question is avoided, the circumstance, namely, that the statute provides for a contingency of the non-compliance with the provisions, the fact that the non-compliance with the provisions is or is not visited by some penalty, the serious or trivial consequences that flow therefrom, and, above all, whether the object of the legislation will be defeated or furthered.” 32.4 In Bachahan Devi v. Nagar Nigam, Gorakhpur,45 this Court considered at length this rule of interpretation. It was observed: “21. The ultimate rule in construing auxiliary verbs like “may” and “shall” is to discover the legislative intent; and the use of the words “may” and “shall” is not decisive of its discretion or mandates. The use of the words “may” and “shall” may help the courts in ascertaining the legislative intent without giving to either a controlling or a determinating effect.