Explanation.- Unless and until the contrary is proved, the court shall presume (i) that the breach of a contract to transfer immovable property cannot be adequately relieved by compensation in money; and (ii) that the breach of a contract to transfer movable property can be so relieved except in the following cases: 690 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (a) where the property is not an ordinary article of commerce, or is of special value of interest to the plaintiff, or consists of goods which are not easily obtainable in the market; (b) where the property is held by the defendant as the agent or trustee of the plaintiff.” 33. This Court referred to the in Saradamani Kandappan v. Rajalakshmi,8 which laid down the factors that the Courts must consider while deciding whether to exercise the discretion of decreeing specific performance of a contract: “43. Till the issue is considered in an appropriate case, we can only reiterate what has been suggested in K.S. Vidyanadam [(1997) 3 SCC 1] : (i ) The courts, while exercising discretion in suits for specific performance, should bear in mind that when the parties prescribe a time/period, for taking certain steps or for completion of the transaction, that must have some significance and therefore time/period prescribed cannot be ignored. (ii ) The courts will apply greater scrutiny and strictness when considering whether the purchaser was “ready and willing” to perform his part of the contract. (iii ) Every suit for specific performance need not be decreed merely because it is filed within the period of limitation by ignoring the time-limits stipulated in the agreement. The courts will also “frown” upon suits which are not filed immediately after the breach/refusal. The fact that limitation is three years does not mean that a purchaser can wait for 1 or 2 years to file a suit and obtain specific performance. The three-year period is intended to assist the purchasers in special cases, as for example, where the major part of the consideration has been paid to the vendor and possession has been delivered in part-performance, where equity shifts in favour of the purchaser.” (emphasis supplied) 8 [2011] 8 SCR 874 : (2011) 12 SCC 18 [2024] 11 S.C.R. 691 M/s Siddamsetty Infra Projects Pvt. Ltd. v. Katta Sujatha Reddy & Ors. 34. Section 16(c) of the Specific Relief Act states that specific performance of a contract cannot be enforced in favour of the person who fails to prove that he is ready and willing to perform the essential terms of the contract which are to be performed by him, other than the terms which are prevented or waived by the defendant. The explanation to clause (c) states that it is not essential for the plaintiff to tender money to the defendant where the contract involves the payment of money, unless directed by court. Section 16(c) reads as follows: “16. Personal bars to relief.-Specific performance of a contract cannot be enforced in favour of a person- […] (c) who fails to prove that he has performed or has always been ready and willing to perform the essential terms of the contract which are to be performed by him, other than terms the performance of which has been prevented or waived by the defendant.