(5) Nothing in this article shall affect the operation of any law which provides that the incumbent of an office in connection with the affairs of any religious or denominational institution or any member of the governing body thereof shall be a person professing a particular religion or belonging to a particular denomination. (6) Nothing in this article shall prevent the State from making any provision for the reservation of appointments or posts in favor of any economically weaker sections of citizens other than the classes mentioned in clause (4) in addition to the existing reservation and subject to a maximum of 10% of the posts in each category. 14 E. P. Royappa v. State of T.N. (1974) 4 SCC 3 15 State of Jharkhand v. Brahmputra Metallics Ltd. (2023) 10 SCC 634 16 Sivanandan CT & Ors. v. High Court of Kerala & Ors., 2023 INSC 709 [2024] 12 S.C.R. 47 Tej Prakash Pathak & Ors. v. Rajasthan High Court & Ors. performing their public duties, ought to honour their promises or past practices. The legitimacy of an expectation can be inferred if it is rooted in law, custom, or established procedure.17 However, the doctrine of legitimate expectation does not impede or hinder the power of the public authorities to lay down a policy or withdraw it. The public authority has the discretion to exercise the full range of choices available within its executive power. The public authority often has to take into consideration diverse factors, concerns, and interests before arriving at a particular policy decision. The courts are generally cautious in interfering with a bona fide decision of public authorities which denies legitimate expectation provided such a decision is taken in the larger public interest. Thus, public interest serves as a limitation on the application of the doctrine of legitimate expectation. Courts have to determine whether the public interest is compelling and sufficient to outweigh the legitimate expectation of the claimant. While performing a balancing exercise, courts have to often grapple with the issues of burden and standard of proof required to dislodge the claim of legitimate expectation.18 17. In Sivanandan CT,19 the Constitution Bench, speaking through one of us (Dr. D.Y. Chandrachud, CJ), held that for a public authority to frustrate a claim of legitimate expectation, it must objectively demonstrate by placing relevant material before the court that its decision was in the public interest. This standard is consistent with the principles of good administration which require that State actions must be held to scrupulous standards to prevent misuse of public power and ensure fairness to citizens. It was also highlighted that the doctrine of legitimate expectation lays emphasis on predictability and consistency in decision-making which is a facet of non-arbitrariness. In addition, the Court observed: "43. The underlying basis for the application of the doctrine of legitimate expectation has expanded and evolved to include the principles of good administration. ………. The principles of good administration require that the decisions of public authorities must withstand the test of consistency, 17 Sivanandan CT (supra), paragraph 18.