… Many a times, while determining the sentence, the courts take it for granted, looking into the facts of a particular case, that the accused would be a menace to the society and there is no possibility of reformation and rehabilitation, while it is the duty of the court to ascertain those factors, and the State is obliged to furnish materials for and against the possibility of reformation and rehabilitation of the accused. The facts, which the courts deal with, in a given case, cannot be the foundation for reaching such a conclusion, which, as already stated, [2024] 5 S.C.R. 691 Sunita Devi v. The State of Bihar & Anr. calls for additional materials. We, therefore, direct that the criminal courts, while dealing with the offences like Section 302IPC, after conviction, may, in appropriate cases, call for a report to determine, whether the accused could be reformed or rehabilitated, which depends upon the facts and circumstances of each case.” (emphasis supplied) We hereby fully endorse and direct that this should be implemented uniformly, as further elaborated above, for conviction of offences that carry the possibility of death sentence.” 38. Our thought process has been ignited from a book titled “Discretion, Discrimination and the Rule of Law, Reforming Sentencing in India”, authored by Mr. Mrinal Satish, published by the Cambridge University Press, (2017). The learned author has drawn extensively from the sentencing policy in Israel. Upon a thorough reading of the book, it presents an excellent insight into sentencing policy. The Israeli model takes into consideration numerous factors compiled in the form of guidelines to the Judge, in sentencing an accused. 39. We have also benefitted by looking into the policy adopted in other countries, such as in Canada, New Zealand and UK. CANADA Criminal Code (Canada) Purpose and Principles of Sentencing Section 718 of the Criminal Code (Canada) “Purpose 718 The fundamental purpose of sentencing is to protect society and to contribute, along with crime prevention initiatives, to respect for the law and the maintenance of a just, peaceful and safe society by imposing just sanctions that have one or more of the following objectives: (a) to denounce unlawful conduct and the harm done to victims or to the community that is caused by unlawful conduct; 692 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (b) to deter the offender and other persons from committing offences; (c) to separate offenders from society, where necessary; (d) to assist in rehabilitating offenders; (e) to provide reparations for harm done to victims or to the community; and (f) to promote a sense of responsibility in offenders, and acknowledgment of the harm done to victims or to the community.” (emphasis supplied) Section 718.1 of the Criminal Code (Canada) “Fundamental principle 718.1 A sentence must be proportionate to the gravity of the offence and the degree of responsibility of the offender.” (emphasis supplied) Section 718.2 of the Criminal Code (Canada) “Other sentencing principles 718.2 A court that imposes a sentence shall also take into consideration the following principles: (a) a sentence should be increased or reduced to account for any relevant aggravating or mitigating circumstances relating to the offence or the offender, and, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, (i) evidence that the offence was motivated by bias, prejudice or hate based on race, national or ethnic origin, language, colour, religion, sex, age, mental or physical disability, sexual orientation, or gender identity or expression, or on any other similar factor, (ii) evidence that the offender, in committing the offence, abused the offender’s intimate partner [2024] 5 S.C.R.