The appellants asked the complainant to eat a meal prepared by them, which she refused to consume initially. However, they coerced her to eat it despite her protests. On the next day, she had stomach pain in the morning, and she started bleeding. This led to her baby being aborted in her womb. On 5th December 2016, she visited the doctor along with her sisters and it was discovered that a piece of the foetus is still in her womb, and she was treated for the same. Based on these facts, alleging about the forced abortion and physical and mental cruelty, the complaint was made. 3.3. The appellants along with their son filed a criminal application under Section 482 of the Cr.P.C. praying for quashing and setting aside of the FIR No. 339 of 2018 before the High Court. 3 “IPC” hereinafter [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1537 Digambar and Another v. The State of Maharashtra and Another 3.4. During its pendency, the Family Court at Latur vide dated 20th May 2019 granted a decree of Divorce by mutual consent and dissolved the marriage between the complainant and the son of the appellants. 3.5. The High Court, vide impugned and final dated 23rd January 2020 dismissed the application filed under Section 482 of Cr.P.C. for quashing of the FIR No. 339 of 2018. 3.6. Being aggrieved thereby, the present appeal was filed. Notice was issued by this Court vide dated 2nd June 2020. During the pendency of the matter, the chargesheet came to be filed on 8th February 2021. 4. We have heard Shri Shirish K. Deshpande, learned counsel for the appellants, Shri Samrat Krishnarao Shinde, learned counsel for Respondent No.1-State of Maharashtra and Smt. Prachiti Deshpande for Respondent No. 2- Complainant. 5. Shri Deshpande submits that the appellants before this Court have no active role to play. They have merely been roped into the complaint as they are the parents-in-law of the complainant. 6. It was further submitted that, if such a serious offence was committed by the appellants on 28th November 2016, it should have been mentioned in the notice of Divorce sent by the complainant on 15th May 2018 as it is alleged in the FIR, that the son of the appellants had also allegedly played a role in that incident. There is not even a whisper of this incident in this notice. The complaint was filed after the notice of Divorce, and it was merely filed to mount the pressure on the appellants and their son. This clearly shows that the complaint is concocted, and it was filed as an afterthought only with an intent to take revenge on the appellants. 7. Shri Deshpande further submitted that even if it is believed that the complainant allegedly found a piece of foetus in her womb after she was examined by the doctor, it does not automatically mean that some poisonous substance was given by the appellants to her as there is not an iota of evidence to that effect.