The Union of India defended the said punishment on the ground that it is a species of dismissal and is permissible under Rule 27 of the CRPF Rules. After examining the provisions of Section 11 of the CRPF Act and Rule 27 of the CRPF Rules, this Court observed: “5. A bare perusal of Section 11 shows that it deals with minor punishment as compared to the major punishments prescribed in the preceding section. It lays down that the Commandant or any other authority or officer, as may be prescribed, may, subject to any rules made under the Act, award any one or more of the punishments to any member of the Force who is found guilty of disobedience, neglect of duty or remissness in the discharge of his duty or of other misconduct in his capacity as a member of the Force. According to the High Court the only punishments which can be awarded under this section are reduction in rank, fine, confinement to quarters and removal from any office of distinction or special emolument in the Force. In our opinion, the interpretation is not correct, because the section says that these punishments may be awarded in lieu of, or in addition to, suspension or dismissal. 6. The use of the words “in lieu of, or in addition to, suspension or dismissal”, appearing in sub-section (1) of Section 11 before clauses (a) to (e) shows that the authorities mentioned therein are empowered to award punishment of dismissal or suspension to the member of the Force who is found guilty and in addition to, or in lieu [2024] 6 S.C.R. 445 Union of India & Ors. v. Santosh Kumar Tiwari thereof, the punishment mentioned in clauses (a) to (e) may also be awarded. 8. It is fairly well-settled position in law that removal is a form of dismissal. This Court in Dattatraya Mahadev Nadkarni (Dr.) v. Municipal Corpn. of Greater Bombay [(1992) 2 SCC 547 : 1992 SCC (L&S) 615 : (1992) 20 ATC 275 : AIR 1992 SC 786] explained that removal and dismissal from service stand on the same footing and both bring about termination of service though every termination of service does not amount to removal or dismissal. The only difference between the two is that in the case of dismissal the employee is disqualified from future employment while in the case of removal he is not debarred from getting future employment. Therefore, dismissal has more serious consequences in comparison to removal. In any event, Section 11(1) refers to the Rules made under the Act under which action can be taken. Rule 27 is part of the Rules made under the Act. Rule 27 clearly permits removal by the competent authority. In the instant case the Commandant who had passed the of removal was the competent authority to pass the .” (Emphasis supplied) 23. The learned counsel for the respondent seeks to distinguish the above decision, inter alia, on the ground that removal may be a species of dismissal or vice versa but compulsory retirement is not, because in common service jurisprudence compulsory retirement is not considered a punishment.