n) In the case of Nangli Kota lands, the amount towards compensation to be paid to the respondents was decided as per the statement of acceptance dated 06.06.1980 and a draft agreement under Section 53(3) duly signed and submitted on a stamp paper, by the seven sons of late Ram Narain. The said agreement stipulated that the respondents shall accept an amount of Rs. 90,000/- in lieu of the 5 bighas of the land. The respondents also agreed to hand over vacant and peaceful possession of the subject lands to the State Government or any other person specified in their behalf. The appellant submitted that the State Government agreed to the amount of compensation as proposed in the draft agreement and eventually paid the said amount in the court and therefore, whether the [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1011 Urban Improvement Trust v. Smt. Vidhya Devi and Ors. draft agreement was signed or not by the State Government was of no significance. o) The appellant submitted that the Registrar, Board of Revenue, Ajmer vide its letter dated 22.03.1980 addressed to the appellant Trust had instructed that in view of the pending litigation with respect to the ownership of the Nangli Kota land before the revenue authorities, the amount towards compensation need not be deposited in court. Therefore, the payment towards compensation got delayed till the year 1997. The appellant thereafter, had addressed a letter dated 02.12.1980 to the Tehsildar, Alwar informing that the Nangli Kota land had already been vested with the State Government with the issuance of the notification under Section 52(1) of the RUI Act and asked the Tehsildar, Alwar vide letter dated 05.01.1981 that the issue as regards the ownership of the said land, once decided, should be informed to the appellant immediately. p) The State Government had moved an application before the court of sub-divisional officer, Alwar seeking correction of entries with respect to one of the parcels of the Nangli Kota lands and had asked for a declaration of the same as “sivaichak land” (barren land) to be recorded in the name of the State Government. The court of sub-divisional officer rejected the said application and declared the concerned land to be an “abadi” land whose ownership was to remain with the respondents. Thereafter, on appeal, the Revenue Appellate Authority heard the matter ex parte and declared the said land to be “sivaichak” land,to be recorded in the name of the State Government. In pursuance of this , the mutation of the lands was done in the name of the State Government. The State Government mutated the Nangli Kota lands in favour of the appellant Trust on 15.06.1981. The respondents filed a second appeal before the Board of Revenue, Ajmer against the aforesaid but did not make the appellant a party to the litigation. The Board of Revenue allowed the second appeal on 30.12.1983 and ed for the transfer of the land in the name of the respondents. On 20.03.1985, the relevant entries were mutated in the revenue records which transferred the Nangli Kota land from the Department Urban Improvement Trust, Alwar to the seven sons and two daughters of late Ram Narain.