The date of issue of policy being 16.07.2012 is actually the date from which the policy commences and becomes effective. 11. In the present case, period of 12 months from 16.07.2012 will complete on 15.07.2013. It would be the last day of 12 months as from the next day, i.e., 16.07.2013 the next month will start. Unfortunately, the incidence of suicide is on 15.07.2013, the last day of 12 months. The date of proposal cannot be treated to be the date of policy until and unless on the date of proposal, initial deposit as also the issuance of policy happens on the same date where, for example, the premium is paid in cash then, immediately, the policy could be issued. Merely, tendering a cheque may not be enough as till such time the cheque is encashed, the contract would not become effective. The drawer of the cheque may, at any time, after issuing, stop its payment or there may not be enough funds in the account of which the cheque is issued and there could be many other reasons for which the cheque could be returned without being encashed. 12. We may also refer to the two s relied upon by the counsel for the appellants, in support of his submission that the terms and conditions of the contract as contained in the policy should be strictly adhered to. Otherwise mentioning of the terms and conditions would be a futile exercise, if any other interpretation is given or terms and conditions are relaxed. 70 [2024] 1 S.C.R. DIGITAL SUPREME COURT REPORTS 13. In this connection, it would be useful to reproduce the extract which form part of paragraph 6 in the case of Life Insurance Corporation of India and Another vs. Dharam Vir Anand4. It reads as follows: “6. Having examined the rival submissions and having examined the policy of insurance which is nothing but a contract between the parties and having considered the expressions used in Clause 4-B of the terms of the policy, we are persuaded to accept the submissions made by Mr. Salve, the learned Senior Counsel appearing for the appellant. In construing a particular Clause of the Contract, it is only reasonable to construe that the words and the terms used therein must be given effect to. In other words, one part of the Contract cannot be made otiose by giving a meaning to the policy of the contract. Then again, when the same Clause of a contract uses two different expressions, ordinarily those different expressions convey different meanings and both the expressions cannot be held to be conveying one and the same meaning. Bearing in mind the aforesaid principle of construction, if Clause 4-B of the terms of policy is scrutinized, it become crystal clear that the date on which the risk under the policy has commenced is different from the date of the policy. In the case in hand, undoubtedly the date on which the risk under the policy has commenced is 10.5.89 but the date of the policy is 31.03.1990 on which date the policy had been issued.