The interpretation of the phrase ‘that is to say’ has fallen for the consideration of this Court earlier in numerous cases.96 This Court has adopted both views. Benches have interpreted the expression as a limiting as well as an explanatory device. In Bhola Prasad v. The King Emperor,97 the Federal Court dealt with the meaning of the phrase ‘that is to say’ in Entry 31 of the Provincial List in the 1935 Act. Entry 31 of the Provincial List read as “Intoxicating liquors and narcotic drugs, that is to say, the production, manufacture, possession, transport, purchase and sale of intoxicating liquors, opium and other narcotic drugs.” The issue was whether the Provincial Government had the competence to issue a notification prohibiting the possession of intoxicating liquor. The Federal Court held that the Provincial Government had the competence to prohibit though Entry 31 does not expressly grant the power to ‘prohibit’. The Court noted that the words that follow the phrase ‘that is to say’ were explanatory 94 Other examples include Entry 13 of List II which specifies the meaning of ‘communications’ to mean roads, bridges, ferries and Entry 42 of List II which specifies State pensions to mean pensions payable by the State or out of the Consolidated Fund of the State. 95 Other examples include Entry 17 of List II which reads as “water, that is to say, water supplies, irrigation and canals, drainage and embankments, water storage and water power subject to the provisions of entry 56 of List I” and Entry 18 of List II which reads as ‘Land, that is to say, rights in or over land, land tenures including the relation of landlord and tenant, and the collection of rents; transfer and alienation of agricultural land; land improvement and agricultural loans; and colonization. 96 State of Karnataka v. Balaji Computers; Bansal Wire Industries v. State of UP (2011) 6 SCC 545; Sait Rikaji Furtarnal v. State of AP (1991) Supp (1) SCC 202; CST v. Popular Trading Company (2000) 5 SCC 511; State of Punjab v. Devans Modern Brewaries (2004) 11 SCC 26; State of Bombay v. Bombay Education Society (1954) 2 SCC 152 97 (1942) 4 FCR 17 [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1993 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons or illustrative and not words of either amplification or limitation. However, in other s dealing with taxing provisions, this Court has held that the expression ‘that is to say’ is employed to exhaustively enumerate.98 While interpreting the expression ‘that is to say’, it must not be lost that it features in the legislative list which must be interpreted widely and to include all ancillary items. The interpretation of taxing statutes (which must be construed strictly) and legislative entries in the Seventh Schedule(which are required to be construed widely and liberally) cannot be the same. This was noticed by the Constitution Bench in State of Bombay v. Bombay Education Society.99 55. In State of Punjab v. Devans Modern Breweries,100 the levy of tax on the import of potable liquor manufactured in other States was challenged.