This circumstance which the prosecution banked upon heavily in to bring home the charge of criminal conspiracy against the accused- appellant was not substantiated by any tangible evidence. 10.15 That as per the prosecution, the accused appellants were arrested by the police on 9th May, 2011 i.e. after 5 days from the date of alleged incident at a short distance from Memon Colony, where the accused-appellants reside, while they were trying to flee away on a motorcycle. It is highly improbable that the accused-appellants, after committing such a grave [2024] 8 S.C.R. 357 Allarakha Habib Memon Etc. v. State of Gujarat crime would continue to reside in close vicinity of the crime scene. Had there been any iota of truth in the prosecution case, the police would have arrested the accused immediately after the incident because they were all along available at their respective homes which are located just nearby to the place of incident. 10.16 That the recoveries/discoveries made at the instance of the accused-appellants are fabricated and were not proved by convincing/tangible evidence. Submissions on behalf of the respondent-State: - 11. Per contra, learned counsel appearing for the respondent-State, vehemently and fervently opposed the submissions advanced by the learned counsel for the accused-appellants. Learned counsel for the respondent-State advanced the following submissions craving dismissals of the appeals:- 11.1 That the prosecution case is based on clinching testimony of eyewitnesses which is corroborated in material particulars by the evidence of Dr. Swapnil (PW-1) and so also the incriminating recoveries effected by the Investigating Officer (PW-18). 11.2 That the FIR (Exhibit P-79) was lodged with utmost promptitude i.e. within two and a half hours of the incident. The accused appellants were named in the FIR. The first informant, Mohammad Arif Memon (PW-11) had no motive whatsoever to falsely implicate the accused appellants for the crime. The promptitude in lodging of the FIR lends succour to the prosecution case. 11.3 That it is an admitted case that a day before the incident, Mohmedfaruk @ Palak and Mohammad Sohail (deceased) had indulged in a quarrel during a meeting owing to the issue of shortage of water in the colony. Being enraged by this controversy, Mohmedfaruk @ Palak conspired with Amin @ Lalo Aarifbhai Memon and Allarakha Habib Memon and launched the pre-planned indiscriminate attack upon Mohammad Sohail, causing fatal injuries, leading to his death, and causing injuries to the first informant, Mohammad Arif Memon (PW-11). 358 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 11.4 That the attack on the deceased was pre-mediated and gruesome, inasmuch as, 29 injuries were caused to the deceased by sharp and blunt weapons and no part of his body was spared. The injuries so inflicted upon Mohammed Sohail (deceased) proved instantaneously fatal which fact was duly proved by Dr. Swapnil (PW-1). 11.5 That Dr. Arvindbhai, Medical Officer (PW-2) proved the injuries of the first informant Mohammad Arif Memon (PW- 11) which corroborates the presence of the witness (PW-11) with the deceased at the crime scene. In addition, thereto, Dr. Arvindbhai (PW-2) also examined and proved the injuries sustained by the accused appellants during the incident which again corroborates the prosecution case regarding active participation of the accused appellants in the incident.