Internationally, the legal position in the USA, UK, Canada, Australia, South Africa and New Zealand supports the minority . 21. Mr Tushar Mehta, the learned Solicitor General of India highlighted the significance of preserving parliamentary privileges. He submitted that the issue for consideration before this Court is not the contours of parliamentary privileges but whether the offence of bribery is 490 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports complete outside the legislature. Mr Mehta submitted that the offence of bribery under the PC Act, both before and after the 2018 amendment, is complete on the acceptance of the bribe and is not linked to the actual performance or non-performance of the official function to which the bribe relates. 22. Mr Vijay Hansaria, Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of the intervenor, supplemented the arguments assailing the majority . He submitted that the principle of parliamentary privilege must be interpreted in the context of the criminalization of politics and through the prism of constitutional morality. In his written submissions, Mr A Velan, Advocate for the intervenor supported the submission that the majority in PV Narasimha Rao (supra) ought to be reconsidered. D. Reconsidering PV Narasimha Rao does not violate the principle of stare decisis 23. We begin by addressing the preliminary argument of Mr Raju Ramachandran, that overruling of the long-settled law in PV Narasimha Rao (supra) is unwarranted by the application of the tests laid down by this Court on overturning judicial precedent. The of reference provides reasons for prima facie doubting the correctness of the decision in PV Narasimha Rao (supra) including its impact on the “polity and the preservation of probity in public life.” However, since the learned Senior Counsel has reiterated the preliminary objection to reconsidering the decision in PV Narasimha Rao (supra) before this bench of seven judges, the argument has been addressed below. 24. A decision delivered by a Bench of larger strength is binding on any subsequent Bench of lesser or coequal strength. A Bench of lesser strength cannot disagree with or dissent from the view of the law taken by the bench of larger strength. However, a bench of the same strength can question the correctness of a decision rendered by a co-ordinate bench. In such situations, the case is placed before a bench of larger strength.14 25. In the present case, the case was first placed before a bench of two judges who referred the case to a bench of three judges. The 14 Central Board of Dawoodi Bohra Community vs. State of Maharashtra, [2004] Suppl. 6 SCR 1054 : (2005) 2 SCC 673, para 12 [2024] 3 S.C.R. 491 Sita Soren v. Union of India bench of three judges referred the case to a bench of five judges. In consonance with judicial discipline, the correctness of the decision in PV Narasimha Rao (supra) was only doubted by the co-equal bench of five judges of this Court in a detailed . Accordingly, the matter has been placed before this bench of seven judges.