Therefore, condition no.1 cannot be sustained. If a condition imposed is unclear or ambiguous, it can have different meanings. Consequently, it becomes very difficult to enforce such conditions. Thus, the condition imposed while granting remission must be such that it is capable of being complied with and enforced. 14. Now, we come to condition no.2, which provides that if the appellant, after his release from jail, commits any cognizable offence or inflicts any serious injury to any citizen or property, he will be arrested again and will have to serve the remaining period of the sentence in jail. Thus, this condition authorises the appropriate Government to arrest the convict and revoke the benefit of remission. This clause provides for automatic cancellation of the remitting the sentence. In this respect, it is necessary to consider the decision of this Court in the case of Shaikh Abdul Azees1. It was a case where remission was earned by the appellant therein after undergoing a life sentence for fifteen and a half years. The High Court held that Section 303 of the IPC was applicable, and this was a case of conditional remission under Section 401 of the CrPC of 1898. Section 401 of the CrPC of 1898 has been quoted in paragraph 13 of the said decision, which reads thus: “13. We are, however, clearly of opinion that for the purpose of Section 303 IPC it does not make any difference whether the remission under Section 401 CrPC is with or without conditions. This is clear from a perusal of sub-section (3) of Section 401 CrPC which reads as follows: “401(3) If any condition on which a sentence has been suspended or remitted, is, in the opinion of the appropriate Government, not fulfilled, the appropriate Government may cancel the suspension or remission and thereupon the person in whose favour the sentence has been suspended or remitted, may, if at large, be arrested by any police officer without 1458 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports warrant and remanded to undergo the unexpired portion of the sentence.” An identical provision is found in sub-section (3) of Section 432 of the CrPC and sub-section (3) of Section 473 of BNSS. Ultimately, in paragraph 14 of the said decision, while dealing with sub-section (3) of Section 401 of the CrPC of 1898, this Court held thus: “14. It is manifest from the above provision that on breach of any condition of the remission there is not an automatic revival of the sentence. It will certainly be open to the Government in a particular case to cancel the remission but it may not. The Government is not under a legal obligation to cancel the remission. It is only when the Government chooses to pass an of cancellation of the remission of sentence that the convict is arrested and is required to serve the unexpired portion of the sentence. During the interregnum the accused who is released cannot be said to be under a sentence of imprisonment for life.