Second, the court gave effect to the state government’s rules despite Rajkot being removed from Schedule I of the 1949 Ordinance. This was a recognition that the omission of Rajkot was only done because of the corresponding enactment of the municipality’s separate rules. This was even though the omission was done by an entirely separate authority (the state government) from the enacting authority (the municipality). Thus, the Constitution Bench in Mulchand Odhavji adopted a broader approach of examining the entirety of the legislative circumstances and reversed both the omission and insertion steps of the legislative process after invalidating the unconstitutional rule. 57. The respondents next relied on State of Maharashtra v Central Provinces Manganese Ore.58 In a taxation dispute, the assessee challenged an amendment to the Explanation to clause (g) of Section 2 of the Central Provinces and Berar Sales Tax Act, 1947. The amendment to the Explanation modified the regime of taxation from one concerning goods that were in the Central Provinces and Berar when the contract was made, to one covering even future goods that were in the provinces after the contract was made. The High Court invalidated the amendment on the ground that it had not secured the assent of the Governor General under Section 107 of the Government of India Act, 1935.59 After the High Court declared the amendment as void, a question arose before this Court as to 58 [1977] 1 SCR 1002 : (1977) 1 SCC 643 : 1976 INSC 269 59 Ibid [8] (Beg J). [2024] 11 S.C.R. 75 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. whether the unamended Explanation to clause (g) stood revived. The assessee adopted the two-step argument concerning substitution found in Koteswar Vittal Kamath and contended that as the assent of the Governor General was not required to repeal the earlier Explanation to clause (g), the repealing step of the substitution was valid while only the insertion step of the substitution was hit by the failure to secure the Governor General’s assent under Section 107 of the Government of India Act. Therefore, the assessee contended that the unamended Explanation to clause (g) did not stand revived. Justice Beg, speaking for a Three-Judge Bench of this Court rejected this contention and held: “17. In the case before us although the word “substitution” is used in the amending Act, yet, the whole legislative process termed substitution was itself abortive. The whole of that process did not take effect as the assent of the Governor-General, required by Section 107, Government of India Act, was lacking. […] 18. We do not think that the word substitution necessarily or always connotes two severable steps, that is to say, one of repeal and another of a fresh enactment even if it implies two steps. Indeed, the natural meaning of the word “substitution” is to indicate that the process cannot be split up into two pieces like this. If the process describes as substitution fails, it is totally ineffective as to leave intact what was sought to be displaced.