18. This contention has substance. Section 55 will only apply to a case where payment and overcharging would synchronise : In other words, on the facts and in the cirumstances prevailing at the date of payment, Board should have overcharged the rent. In this case, on the date payment was made by the petitioner, the payment did not and could not assume the character of overcharging. It only assumed such character when the second set of exemption certificates had been issued on 3rd February, 1986.” (Emphasis supplied) 80. Section 106 of the Act, 1989, sub-section (3) specifically uses the words “paid” and “date of payment”. This clearly fortifies the above observations, that for a sum to be an “overcharge” within the meaning of Section 106(3) of the Act, 1989, it must be an overcharge on the date when such sum was paid. If on the date when the payment was made, the sum in question was not an overcharge, it will not become an ‘overcharge” due to intervention of subsequent events at-least in terms of Section 106 of the Act, 1989. 81. Otherwise, the same would lead to a very chilling effect, whereby a particular sum which at the time of payment was not an overcharge but due to subsequent events (not attributable to any mistake or lack of diligence) happens to become an overcharge after the lapse of the statutory time-period under Section 106(3) of the Act, 1989 i.e., 6-months after the date of payment, even then the said sum would not be refundable because no notice was made within 6-months. Thus, the claim for refund of an “overcharge” in such case would become time-barred owing to an impossibility i.e., making the notice within the time-period which could not have been made, as at the relevant point of time it was not an overcharge. 82. It is a settled law that in interpreting a statute or a rule, the court must bear in mind that the legislature does not intend what is unreasonable [2024] 3 S.C.R. 1121 Union of India v. M/s Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. or impossible. If a rule leads to an absurdity or manifest injustice from any adherence to it, the court can step in. A statute or a rule ordinarily should be most agreeable to convenience, reason and as far as possible to do justice to all. A law/rule should be beneficial in the sense that it should suppress the mischief and advance the remedy. In interpreting a rule, it is legitimate to take into consideration the reasonableness or unreasonableness of any provision. Gross absurdity must always be avoided in a statute/rule. The expression reasonable means rational, according to the dictate of reason and not excessive or immoderate. 83. Thus, keeping in mind the aforesaid view, and the specific language used in Section 106(3) of the Act, 1989 particularly the words “paid” and “date of payment”, the aspects of “payment” and “overcharging” must synchronize in to fall within the rigours of Section 106(3) of the Act, 1989.