53.2. The transfer of the right to use goods, as distinct from the transfer of goods, is yet another economic activity intended to be exigible to State tax. 14 2020 SCCOnline SC 682 508 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 53.3. There are clear distinguishing features between ordinary sales and deemed sales. 53.4. Article 366(29-A)(d) of the Constitution implies tax not on the delivery of the goods for use, but implies tax on the transfer of the right to use goods. The transfer of the right to use the goods contemplated in sub-clause (d) of clause (29-A) cannot be equated with that category of bailment where goods are left with the bailee to be used by him for hire. 53.5. In the case of Article 366(29-A)(d) the goods are not required to be left with the transferee. All that is required is that there is a transfer of the right to use goods. In such a case taxable event occurs regardless of when or whether the goods are delivered for use. What is required is that the goods should be in existence so that they may be used. 53.6. The levy of tax under Article 366(29-A)(d) is not on the use of goods. It is on the transfer of the right to use goods which accrues only on account of the transfer of the right. In other words, the right to use goods arises only on the transfer of such right to use goods. 53.7. The transfer of right is the sine qua non for the right to use any goods, and such transfer takes place when the contract is executed under which the right is vested in the lessee. 53.8. The agreement or the contract between the parties would determine the nature of the contract. Such agreement has to be read as a whole to determine the nature of the transaction. If the consensus ad idem as to the identity of the good is shown the transaction is exigible to tax. 53.9. The locus of the deemed sale, by transfer of the right to use goods, is the place where the relevant right to use the goods is transferred. The place where the goods are situated or where the goods are delivered or used is not relevant.” Thus, to decide the controversy involved in this group of appeals, the contract between the parties will have to be tested on the touchstone of the five tests laid down by Dr AR Laxmanan, J in the case of [2024] 1 S.C.R. 509 M/s. K.P. Mozika v. Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Ltd. and Ors. BSNL5. Thus, the contract will be covered by sub-clause (d) of Clause 29A of Article 366, provided all the five conditions laid down are fulfilled. This Court has made a distinction between transferring the right to use and merely a license to use goods. In every case where the owner of the goods permits another person to use goods, the transaction need not be of the transfer of the right to use the goods.