14194 of 2001 5 ibid [2024] 7 S.C.R. 769 Bihar State Electricity Board and Others v. Dharamdeo Das posted as Joint Secretary. Therefore, it was not possible to grant promotion to the respondent on the post of Joint Secretary with effect from 29th July, 1997. 13. The aforesaid decision taken by the Board vide Resolution dated 9th June, 2005, was challenged by the respondent in a writ petition6. Vide judgement dated 3rd October, 2007, the learned Single Judge dismissed the said writ petition holding inter alia that Resolution dated 26th December, 1991 passed by the Board was only a basic guideline for determining the Kal Awadhi for promotion from one cadre to the other so that a person acquires minimum period of experience on the given post before he can be promoted to the next higher post and such a guideline can only be treated as directory in nature and not mandatory. The learned Single Judge concurred with the submission made by the appellants that promotion given to the respondent on 5th March, 2003, was on account of certain administrative problems that had cropped up when the State of Bihar was bifurcated into the present State of Bihar and State of Jharkhand on 15th November, 2003. It was held that merely because the respondent had completed the period contemplated under the Kal Awadhi for the next higher post would not be a criteria to shift his date of promotion from 5th March, 2003 to the year 1997. 14. Aggrieved by the aforesaid decision of the learned Single Judge, the respondent filed an intra court appeal. The said judgement was overturned by the Division Bench by the impugned judgement, observing that the Resolution dated 9th June, 2005 whereby the respondent’s representation was rejected by the Board, was unsustainable since it did not adhere to the Kal Awadhi as mentioned in the Resolution dated 26th December, 1991. The respondent who had already superannuated from the post of Under Secretary, was therefore held entitled to all the benefits of such a post with retrospective effect. It is the said decision that has been challenged by the appellant Board in the present appeal. ARGUMENTS ADVANCED 15. Mr. Navin Prakash, learned Counsel for the appellant Board submitted that the Division Bench has misconstrued the concept of 6 CWJC No. 9611 of 2005 770 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Kal Awadhi which actually denotes qualifying service and does not mean that immediately upon completion of the period of three years for promotion from the post of Under Secretary to Joint Secretary, as contemplated in the Resolution dated 26th December, 1991, an employee ought to be compulsorily promoted. He urged that the Kal Awadhi prescribed for promotion from one post to another is only an eligibility criteria that has been laid down and upon completion of the said period, the incumbent employee becomes eligible for being considered for promotion to the next higher post but it is not as if there is a compulsion to promote him immediately upon completion of the period of the Kal Awadhi.