An inordinate delay in the execution of the sentence of death has a dehumanising effect on the accused. An inordinate delay caused by circumstances beyond the prisoners’ control mandates the commutation of a death sentence. 23. In paragraph 16 of the decision of this Court in the case of Triveniben,3 the Constitution Bench held that while considering the delay in the execution of the death sentence, the period consumed in the judicial process culminating in the confirmation of the death sentence should not be taken into consideration. The reason for the said conclusion [2024] 12 S.C.R. 597 State of Maharashtra & Ors. v. Pradeep Yashwant Kokade & Anr. is that only after the judicial process in the form of the of this Court in appeal / special leave petition arising out of the of conviction does the of death sentence become final. Therefore, the period required for judicial consideration cannot be termed as a delay in the execution of the death sentence, as till the conclusion of judicial proceedings arising out of the of conviction, a sentence of death does not attain finality. The question of execution thereof arises only when the death sentence becomes final. 24. We may refer to Sections 413 and 414 of the CrPC, which read thus: “413. Execution of passed under section 368.— When in a case submitted to the High Court for the confirmation of a sentence of death, the Court of Session receives the of confirmation or other of the High Court thereon, it shall cause such to be carried into effect by issuing a warrant or taking such other steps as may be necessary. 414. Execution of sentence of death passed by High Court.— When a sentence of death is passed by the High Court in appeal or in revision, the Court of Session shall, on receiving the of the High Court, cause the sentence to be carried into effect by issuing a warrant.” There are identical provisions in the BNSS in the form of Sections 453 and 454. These provisions constitute a vital safeguard. These provisions ensure that the execution of the death sentence takes place only after all remedies available to the convicts are exhausted. The executive cannot execute the death sentence unless the Sessions Court issues a warrant. 25. The proceedings for issuing a warrant for executing a death sentence under Sections 413 and 414 of the CrPC do not require any judicial adjudication. Before issuing the warrant, the Sessions Court must satisfy itself that the of death sentence has attained finality and the review/curative or mercy petitions, if filed, have been finally rejected. Before issuing a warrant, the Sessions Court has to issue notice to the convict so that even the convict can state whether any other proceedings are pending before the Courts or Constitutional authorities. In a given case, the convict may not be interested in pursuing remedies. The Sessions Court can verify this aspect after 598 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports issuing a notice to the convict.