No doubt there will generally be loans to persons of undoubted solvency which can quickly be called in, but it may be very undesirable to use this second line of defence. If as in the present case some of the securities of the Bank are realised in to meet withdrawals by depositors, it seems to their Lordships to be quite clear that this is a normal step in carrying on the Banking business, 888 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports or, in other words, that it is an act done in “what is truly the carrying on” of the Banking business. This, it appears to their Lordships, is the more appropriate and satisfactory ground for dealing with the question arising in the present case.” (emphasis added) 17. Therefore, the Privy Council and this Court have consistently held that the securities that Banks acquire as a part of the banking business are held as stock-in-trade and not as an investment. OUR CONCLUSIONS 18. Initially, CBDT issued Circular No. 599 of 1991 and observed that the securities held by Banks must be recorded as their stock-in-trade. The circular was withdrawn in view of the decision of this Court in the case of Vijaya Bank Ltd.1 In the year 1998, RBI issued a circular dated 21st April 1998, stating that the Bank should not capitalise broken period interest paid to the seller as a part of cost but treat it as an item of expenditure under the profit and loss account. A similar circular was issued on 21st April 2001, stating that the Bank should not capitalise the broken period interest paid to the seller as a cost but treated it as an item of expenditure under the profit and loss account. In 2007, the CBDT issued Circular No. 4 of 2007, observing that a taxpayer can have two portfolios. The first can be an investment portfolio comprising securities, which are to be treated as capital assets, and the other can be a trading portfolio comprising stock-in-trade, which are to be treated as trading assets. 19. As stated earlier, Banks are required to purchase Government securities to maintain the SLR. As per RBI’s guideline dated 16th October 2000, there are three categories of securities: HTM, AFS and HFT. As far as AFS and HFT are concerned, there is no difficulty. When these two categories of securities are purchased, obviously, the same are not investments but are always held by Banks as stock-in-trade. Therefore, the interest accrued on the said two categories of securities will have to be treated as income from the business of the Bank. Thus, after the deduction of broken period interest is allowed, the entire interest earned or accrued during the particular year is put to tax. Thus, what is taxed is the real income earned on the securities. By selling the securities, Banks will earn [2024] 10 S.C.R. 889 Bank of Rajasthan Ltd. v. Commissioner of Income Tax profits. Even that will be the income considered under Section 28 after deducting the purchase price.