140. We believe that both sides are partly right and partly wrong. They are right in considering both the genesis of the institution and the point of sanction by the statute for operationalizing the institution as relevant factors to determine establishment. However, they are incorrect in asserting that coming into existence is an event frozen at a single point in time. Instead, we believe that coming into existence operates in a continuum, which requires the analysis of the entire gamut of relevant factors that brought the institution into being. The [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1825 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. essence of existence—be it that of an educational institution or a photograph, melody, or an art as instantiated above—is a multi- faceted and an ontological question that cannot be answered by artificially fixating it at a specific time with a bright-line test. Since there are several factors that contribute towards the existence of the educational institution, at no point can we say that the institute came into existence as soon as one specific factor was fulfilled. Such an exercise would highlight one factor while discounting the importance of others, which would be arbitrary and irrational. Instead, the correct approach requires an appraisal of the entirety of facts—i.e., the origin, the point of finality, and the whole process in between—to reach an understanding about the establishment. 141. Hence, while the parties are right in pointing out the relevant factors of genesis and the statutory sanction, the analysis of who establishes the educational institution has to go beyond them to cover all aspects holistically. Since these factors would be a question of fact that would differ from case to case, giving a laundry list of all such aspects would be erroneous in law. However, to determine whether the minority community has established the institution or not, a few illustrative factors that the Courts have considered in the past include: a. The genesis of the institution and who conceptualized the idea; b. The gathering of resources and who provided the requisite finances for creating the institution;77 c. Who contributed towards the infrastructure of the institution to provide it with a physical existence;78 d. The framing of charter documents and who imparted the purpose to the institution;79 e. In case government approvals were required, who made the initial efforts in taking those permissions and fulfilling the necessary compliances; and f. Post the approval of the government, who undertook the initial steps in forming the administrative bodies,80 hiring teachers, 77 Right Rev. Bishop S.K. Patro, supra note 66, para 15-16. 78 St. Stephen’s College, supra note 50, para 31. 79 Ibid, para 35. 80 Ibid, para 35-40. 1826 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports admitting students, passing the first statutes and ordinances, ensuring regular compliances, etc., for operationalizing the institution. I.1.1. Caveat to these factors 142. In regard to these factors and any additional ones that may be relevant based on the specifics of each case, there are two important qualifications to note.