d. as to why the extreme step of demolition is the only option available and other options like compounding and demolishing only part of the property are not available. D. AN OPPORTUNITY OF APPELLATE AND JUDICIAL SCRUTINY OF THE FINAL . i. We further direct that if the statute provides for an appellate opportunity and time for filing the same, or 784 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports even if it does not so, the will not be implemented for a period of 15 days from the date of receipt thereof. The shall also be displayed on the digital portal as stated above. ii. An opportunity should be given to the owner/occupier to remove the unauthorized construction or demolish the same within a period of 15 days. Only after the period of 15 days from the date of receipt of the notice has expired and the owner/occupier has not removed/demolished the unauthorized construction, and if the same is not stayed by any appellate authority or a court, the concerned authority shall take steps to demolish the same. It is only such construction which is found to be unauthorized and not compoundable shall be demolished. iii. Before demolition, a detailed inspection report shall be prepared by the concerned authority signed by two Panchas. E. PROCEEDINGS OF DEMOLITION i. The proceedings of demolition shall be video-graphed, and the concerned authority shall prepare a demolition report giving the list of police officials and civil personnel that participated in the demolition process. Video recording to be duly preserved. ii. The said demolition report should be forwarded to the Municipal Commissioner by email and shall also be displayed on the digital portal. 92. Needless to state that the authorities hereinafter shall strictly comply with the aforesaid directions issued by us. 93. It will also be informed that violation of any of the directions would lead to initiation of contempt proceedings in addition to the prosecution. 94. The officials should also be informed that if the demolition is found to be in violation of the s of this Court, the officer/officers concerned will be held responsible for restitution of the demolished property at his/their personal cost in addition to payment of damages. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 785 In Re: Directions in The Matter of Demolition of Structures 95. The Registrar (Judicial) is directed to circulate a copy of this to the Chief Secretaries of all the States/Union Territories and the Registrar Generals of all the High Courts. All State Governments shall issue circulars to all the District Magistrates and local authorities intimating them about the directions issued by this Court. 96. Before we part with the , we must place on record our appreciation for the valuable assistance and suggestions given by Shri Abhishek Manu Singhvi, Shri M.R. Shamshad, Shri Sanjay Hegde, Shri C.U. Singh, Smt. Nitya Ramakrishnan, learned Senior Counsel, and Shri Prashant Bhushan, Shri Mohd. Nizammudin Pasha, Smt. Fauzia Shakil and Smt. Rashmi Singh, learned counsel appearing for the petitioners/applicants. 97. We also make a special mention of the pain-staking efforts made by Shri Nachiketa Joshi, learned Senior Counsel in collating the suggestions given by all the different counsel.