3. The salient features of the Bill are- (i) Application of the legislation to the industries specified in the First Schedule to the Industries (Development and Regulation) Act. 1951, with the initial exception of the scheduled industry relating to ships and other vessels drawn by power, which may however be brought within the ambit of the legislation in due course: (ii) identification of sickness in an industrial company, registered for not less than seven years, on the basis of the symptomatic indices of cash losses for two consecutive financial years and accumulated losses equalling or exceeding the net worth of the company as at the end of the second financial year, (iii) the onus of reporting sickness and impending sickness at the stage of erosion of fifty per cent, or more of the net worth of an industrial company is being laid on the Board of Directors of such company; 344 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports where the Central Government or the Reserve Bank is satisfied that an industrial company has become sick, it may make a reference to the Board, likewise if any State Government, scheduled bank or public financial institution having an interest in an industrial company is satisfied that the industrial company has become sick, it may also make a reference to the Board; (iv) establishment of Board consisting of experts in various relevant fields with powers to enquire into and determine the incidence of sickness in industrial companies and devise suitable remedial measures through appropriate schemes or other proposals and for proper implementation thereof; v) constitution of an Appellate Authority consisting of persons who are or have been Supreme Court Judges, senior High Court Judges and Secretaries to the Government of India, etc. for hearing appeals against the of the Board. 4. The notes on clauses appended to the Bill explain the various provisions of the Bill. NEW DELHI THE 22nd August, 1985. VISHWANATH PRATAP SINGH” 56. The preamble to the 1985 Act reads as follows: “An Act to make, in the public interest, special provisions with a view to securing the timely detection of sick and potentially sick companies owning industrial undertakings, the speedy determination by a Board of experts of the preventive, ameliorative, remedial and other measures which need to be taken with respect to such companies and the expeditious enforcement of the measures so determined and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.” 57. Having discussed the object behind the enactment of the 1985 Act and the developments leading up to its inception, we shall now briefly discuss the scheme and scope of the 1985 Act. [2024] 5 S.C.R. 345 Fertilizer Corporation of India Limited & Ors. v. M/s Coromandal Sacks Private Limited 58. The 1985 Act is divided into four chapters. The first chapter contains preliminary provisions including the definitions and a declaration that the 1985 Act is enacted in furtherance of the principles enshrined in clauses (b) and (c) of the Article 39 of the Constitution. The second chapter, inter alia, provides for the establishment of the BIFR and the AAIFR and prescribes the term of office and conditions of service of their chairperson and members and also the procedure to be followed by them.