3) was dropped off mid-way at Jandialaguru while both, the present Appellant and Harpreet Singh @ Happy, returned back to their village in Punjab. 3.7. The Appellant’s disclosure statement recorded on 12.06.2020 revealed a similar story as that of Bikramjit Singh. The Appellant stated that he and Harpreet Singh were childhood friends. In the 1st week of July 2018, Harpreet proposed to visit Srinagar for Religious Service and asked the Appellant to accompany. The Appellant in his disclosure statement further stated that he initially denied to go with them however later agreed to accompany them when Harpreet Singh continuously insisted him. 3.8. The trial court vide its dated 16.12.2023 in CIS No. BA/2445/2021 dismissed the Appellant’s bail application under Section 439 CrPC on the ground that there were reasonable grounds to believe the accusation against the Appellant to be true. The said was impugned by way of an appeal before the High Court of Punjab and Haryana and meanwhile on 10.04.2023, 4th supplementary charge sheet was filed by NIA along with the List of witnesses and list of documents. 3.9. Vide the Impugned the High Court rejected the grant of bail to Appellant on the ground of seriousness of the nature of offence and that none of the protected witnesses had been examined. SUBMISSION ON BEHALF OF THE PARTIES 4. The Learned Senior Counsel, Mr. Colin Gonsalves, appearing on behalf of the Appellant made the following submissions in support of the Appellant’s bail application: 5. Mr. Gonsalves, learned Senior Counsel contended that the Appellant has been denied bail by the Hon’ble High Court and the Ld. Special Judge by relying upon the disclosure statement of Bikramjit Singh alias Vicky and argued that the said disclosure statement cannot be used to implicate the present Appellant. 6. Learned Senior Counsel further raised contentions about the lack of scrutiny of the Appellant’s mobile phone, marked as M-4 to indicate that the phone number did not belong to the Appellant. He argued 140 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports that the absence of incriminating conversations in the Communication Data Records (CDR) related to the Appellant’s phone supports the case for bail. He further contended that the Appellant has been in custody since the last Five years facing charges of UAP Act which is contrary to the law laid down in KA Najeeb v. Union of India.1 7. He further submitted that only 19 out of 106 witnesses have been examined in the last five-year period. He also drew our attention to terror funding chart to demonstrate that the name of the Appellant does not find place in the same. Mr. Gonsalves also questioned the omission of the alleged main conspirator, Nihal Singh, as an accused, emphasizing that the Appellant did not procure any weapons. 8. He further sought our attention to the 4th supplementary chargesheet, aimed at establishing a funding link with ISI, to illustrate the Appellant’s exclusion from relevant documentation. Lastly, he stated that out of Nine protected witnesses that have been examined, eight have not mentioned the name of Appellant.