The aesthetic use and the pristine glory of the natural resources, the environment and the ecosystems of our country cannot be permitted to be eroded for private, commercial or any other use unless the courts find it necessary, in good faith, for the public good and in public interest to encroach upon the said resources.” 135. This Court in unequivocal terms has held that the executive acting under the doctrine of public trust cannot abdicate the natural resources and convert them into private ownership, or for commercial use. The aesthetic use and the pristine glory of the natural resources, the environment and the ecosystems of our country cannot be permitted to be eroded for private, commercial or any other use unless the courts find it necessary, in good faith, for the public good and in public interest to encroach upon the said resources. 276 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 136. The law with regard to the importance of the ‘public trust’ doctrine in ecological/environmental matters has further been evolved and expanded by this Court in subsequent s. In the case of Association for Environment Protection v. State of Kerala and others11, this Court has referred to some of the s which followed the law laid down in the case of Kamal Nath (supra), which are as under : “6. In M.I. Builders (P) Ltd. v. Radhey Shyam Sahu [(1999) 6 SCC 464], the Court applied the public trust doctrine for upholding the of the Allahabad High Court which had quashed the decision of Lucknow Nagar Mahapalika permitting appellant M.I. Builders (P) Ltd. to construct an underground shopping complex in Jhandewala Park, Aminabad Market, Lucknow, and directed demolition of the construction made on the park land. The High Court had noted that Lucknow Nagar Mahapalika had entered into an agreement with the appellant for construction of shopping complex and given it full freedom to lease out the shops and also to sign agreement on its behalf and held that this was impermissible. On appeal by the builders, this Court held that the terms of agreement were unreasonable, unfair and atrocious. The Court then invoked the public trust doctrine and held that being a trustee of the park on behalf of the public, the Nagar Mahapalika could not have transferred the same to the private builder and thereby deprived the residents of the area of the quality of life to which they were entitled under the Constitution and municipal laws. 7. In Intellectuals Forum v. State of A.P. [(2006) 3 SCC 549], this Court again invoked the public trust doctrine in a matter involving the challenge to the systematic destruction of percolation, irrigation and drinking water tanks in Tirupati Town, referred to some judicial precedents including M.C. Mehta v. Kamal Nath [M.C. Mehta v. Kamal Nath, (1997) 1 SCC 388], M.I. Builders (P) Ltd. [(1999) 6 SCC 464], National Audubon Society [National Audubon 11 [2013] 7 SCR 352 : (2013) 7 SCC 226 : 2013 INSC 413 [2024] 3 S.C.R.