Case Arising From CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No. 5438 of 2024 From the and dated 29.07.2024 of the High Court of Judicature at Bombay in CRLA No. 298 of 2024 Appearances for Parties Anand Dilip Landge, Sandip Magar, Kalyan Landge, Mrs. Sangeeta S Pahune Patil, Ms. Revati P. Kharde, Sumit Kumar, Advs. for the Appellant. Varad Kilor, Aaditya Aniruddha Pande, Siddharth Dharmadhikari, Sourav Singh, Ms. Anagha S. Desai, Satyajit A. Desai, Siddharth Gautam, Abhinav K. Mutyalwar, Sachin Singh, Preetraj R. Dhok, Ananya Thapliyal, Advs. for the Respondents. [2024] 12 S.C.R. 839 Siddhant @ Sidharth Balu Taktode v. The State of Maharashtra and Another / of the Supreme Court B.R. Gavai, J. 1. Leave granted. 2. The present appeal challenges the passed by the learned Single Judge of the High Court of Judicature at Bombay in Criminal Appeal No.298 of 2024, vide which the appeal filed by the appellant herein challenging the passed by the Additional Special Judge (M.C.O.C. Act), Pune (hereinafter referred to as ‘Special Judge’), rejecting the application for bail filed by the appellant. 3. Shri Anand Dilip Landge, learned counsel appearing for the appellant submits that the learned Single Judge of the High Court as well as the learned Special Judge have grossly erred in rejecting the application filed by the appellant. It is submitted that relying solely on one criminal antecedent, the provisions of Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act, 1999 (for short, ‘the said Act’) have been invoked against the appellant herein. Relying on certain photographs, the learned counsel for the appellant submits that the appellant was not present at the place of the incident, inasmuch as he was 26 kms., away from the place where the incident occurred. The learned counsel for the appellant further submits that when the appellant was arrested, he was 21 years of age and after approximately five years of incarceration, he is now 26 years of age. He, therefore, submits that the present appeal deserves to be allowed and the appellant deserves to be enlarged on bail. 4. The appeal is vehemently opposed by Mr. Varad Kilor, learned counsel appearing for the State and Smt. Anagha S. Desai, learned counsel appearing for the complainant. 5. It is submitted by the learned counsel appearing for the State as well as for the complainant that the learned Single Judge of the High Court, by an elaborate , rejected the appeal of the appellant herein. It is submitted that the appellant is a part of a gang which has caused terror in the area and is indulging in criminal activities. Smt. Anagha S. Desai, learned counsel appearing for the complainant submits that the learned Single Judge has rightly rejected the reliance 840 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports sought to be placed by the appellant on the case of Javed Gulam Nabi Shaikh v. State of Maharashtra and Another.1 She therefore submits that no interference is warranted in the present appeal. 6. At the outset, we may state that the learned Single Judge by an elaborate and well reasoned rejected the appeal of the appellant herein.