In this context, a 3 Judge Bench of this Court in Diamond Exports v. United India Insurance Co. Ltd., (2022) 4 SCC 169 were tasked with inter alia reconciling and authoritatively settling the divergent views taken by this Court in respect of underlying complaint(s) either pending or instituted prior to 04.03.2020 i.e., the date of pronouncement of New India Assurance 2 (Supra). Thus, in this context, this Court in Diamond Exports (Supra) categorically held that Daddy’s Builders (P) Ltd. (Supra) would not affect applications seeking condonation of delay that were pending or decided on or before 04.03.2020, and accordingly, such application(s) seeking condonation of delay would be entitled to the benefit granted by this Court in Mampee Timbers (Supra). The relevant paragraph is reproduced as under: “24….Thus, the decision in Daddy’s Builders [Daddy’s Builders (P) Ltd. v. Manisha Bhargava, (2021) 3 SCC 669 : (2021) 2 SCC (Civ) 319] would not affect applications that were pending or decided before 4-3-2020. Such applications for condonation would be entitled to the benefit of the position in Mampee Timbers & Hardwares [Reliance General Insurance 780 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Co. Ltd. v. Mampee Timbers & Hardwares (P) Ltd., (2021) 3 SCC 673 : (2021) 2 SCC (Civ) 323] which directed Consumer Fora to render a decision on merits. We have expounded on the above principles in to adopt a bright-line standard which obviates uncertainty on the legal position before the Consumer Fora and obviates further litigation.” 3. Turning to the issue at hand, the undisputed fact(s) of the present lis reveal that the Impugned was passed by the NCDRC on 22.08.2013 i.e., prior to 04.03.2020-the date of pronouncement of the decision in New India Assurance 2 (Supra) by the Constitution Bench. Accordingly, in this background it was contended by the Appellant(s) that on account of the prospective operation of the said decision, coupled with the observations of this Court in Diamond Exports (Supra), the instant appeal ought to be allowed with a direction to the NCDRC to render a decision on merits qua the underlying application seeking condonation of delay in filing the WS. 4. In the considered opinion of this Court, the categorical observation(s) of the Constitution Bench in New India Assurance 2 (Supra); coupled with the finding(s) of a Bench of 3 Judges of this Court in Diamond Exports (Supra) have authoritatively brought quietus to the underlying issue. The application(s) seeking condonation of delay preferred before the consumer fora prior to 04.03.2020 i.e., the date of pronouncement of New India Assurance 2 (Supra), must be decided on merits; and ought not to be summarily dismissed. 5. Accordingly, on an overall consideration, we are convinced that the Impugned be set aside; and the instant appeal be allowed with the following directions(s): 5.1. The NCDRC is directed to adjudicate the underlying application seeking condonation of delay in filing the WS in the Underlying Complaint on merits; and 5.2. The Registry is directed to transmit the Subject Amount and all accrued interest thereon to the NCDRC, which in turn shall deposit the Subject Amount together with all accrued interest in an interest-bearing fixed deposit account.