[Para 221] 10. There are various forms of resources, which may be privately owned, and inherently have a bearing on ecology and/or the well-being of the community. Such resources fall within 12 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the net of Article 39(b). To illustrate, non-exhaustively, there may exist private ownership of forests, ponds, fragile areas, wetlands and resource-bearing lands. Similarly, resources like spectrum, airwaves, natural gas, mines and minerals, which are scarce and finite, may sometimes be within private control. However, as the community has a vital interest in the retention of the character of these resources, they fall within the ambit of the expression “material resources of the community”. [Para 223] 11. The majority in Ranganatha Reddy expressly distanced itself from the observations made by Justice Krishna Iyer (speaking on behalf of the minority of judges) on the interpretation of Article 39(b). Thus, a coequal bench of this Court in Sanjeev Coke erred by relying on the minority opinion. [Para 229(b)] 12. The single-sentence observation in Mafatlal to the effect that ‘material resources of the community’ include privately owned resources is not part of the ratio decidendi of the judgement. Thus, it is not binding on this Court. [Para 229(c)] 13. On the limited question of whether the acquisition of private resources falls within the ambit of the term ‘distribution’, to hold that the term “distribution” cannot encompass the vesting of a private resource would amount to falling into the same error as the Justice Krishna Iyer doctrine, i.e. to lay down a preference of economic and social policy. The term ‘distribution’ has a wide connotation. The various forms of distribution which can be adopted by the state cannot be exhaustively detailed. However, it may include the vesting of the concerned resources in the state or nationalisation. In the specific case, the Court must determine whether the distribution ‘subserves the common good’. [Paras 227, 228 and 229(f)] 14. The direct question referred to this bench is whether the phrase ‘material resources of the community’ used in Article 39(b) includes privately owned resources. Theoretically, the answer is yes, the phrase may include privately owned resources. However, this Court is unable to subscribe to the expansive view adopted in the minority judgement authored by Justice Krishna Iyer in Ranganatha Reddy and subsequently relied on by this Court in Sanjeev Coke. Not every resource [2024] 11 S.C.R. 13 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. owned by an individual can be considered a ‘material resource of the community’ merely because it meets the qualifier of ‘material needs’. [Para 229(d)] 15. The inquiry about whether the resource in question falls within the ambit of Article 39(b) must be context-specific and subject to a non-exhaustive list of factors such as the nature of the resource and its characteristics; the impact of the resource on the well-being of the community; the scarcity of the resource; and the consequences of such a resource being concentrated in the hands of private players.