8. Assailing the of the revisional court, the appellant filed a petition under Article 227 of the Constitution of India, invoking the supervisory jurisdiction of the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad. The High Court, vide impugned dated 19.05.2022, affirmed the s of both the courts below and dismissed the petition filed by the appellant. The High Court, while dismissing the said petition, took note of the fact that the suit was filed before the trial court in the 2006, by the respondent-plaintiffs and the appellant-defendant appeared and filed the vakalatnama of his counsel on 22.04.2006 and in the year 2011, moved an application seeking permission to file written statements. Upon consideration of the fact that the appellant’s counsel remained the same throughout, the High Court was of the opinion that while filing the application in the year 2011, the appellant’s counsel would definitely have come to know about the dated 06.09.2006, by which the trial court had decided to proceed ex-parte against the appellant. Despite this, the first application under IX, Rule 7 of the CPC was moved only on 01.09.2017, which was also not pressed for 3 years, and then the second application was moved on 23.11.2020 without showing any “good cause”, as required under IX, Rule 7 of the CPC. Thus, no perversity was found by the High Court in the s of both the courts below. The High Court hence refused to exercise its supervisory jurisdiction under Article 227 of the Constitution, and in our opinion, rightly so. In this case the main question is of delay. Should an inordinate delay, which has no reasonable explanation be condoned? 9. Whether an application filed by the appellant, under IX, Rule 7 of the CPC can be allowed, after a delay of almost 14 years, is the only question before us. Was there a sufficient cause for filing such a belated application? Although the term ‘sufficient cause’ has not been defined in the Limitation Act, it is now well-settled through a catena of decisions that [2024] 4 S.C.R. 621 K.B. Lal (Krishna Bahadur Lal) v. Gyanendra Pratap & Ors. the term has to be construed liberally and in to meet the ends of justice. The reason for giving the term a wide and comprehensive meaning is quite simple. It is to ensure that deserving and meritorious cases are not dismissed solely on the ground of delay. 10. There is no gainsaying the fact that the discretionary power of a court to condone delay must be exercised judiciously and it is not to be exercised in cases where there is gross negligence and/or want of due diligence on part of the litigant (See Majji Sannemma @ Sanyasirao v. Reddy Sridevi & Ors. (2021) 18 SCC 384). The discretion is also not supposed to be exercised in the absence of any reasonable, satisfactory or appropriate explanation for the delay (See P.K. Ramachandran v. State of Kerala and Anr., (1997) 7 SCC 556). Thus, it is apparent that the words ‘sufficient cause’ in Section 5 of the Limitation Act can only be given a liberal construction, when no negligence, nor inaction, nor want of bona fide is imputable to the litigant (See Basawaraj and Anr.