Digital Supreme Court Reports It has also been mentioned that insofar as the Union Territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli is concerned, there was only one sub-jail where all the prisoners were undertrials. The convicts of the Union Territory have been sent to the Central Jail of nearby districts in Gujarat. Insofar as the Union Territory of Daman and Diu was concerned, the figure was Nil. In the Union Territory of Lakshadweep, no convict was lodged in its jail as all convicts are transferred to a jail in Kerala, post-conviction. In Sikkim, the data is still awaited. 31. The learned Amicus has also drawn the attention of this Court to the of Justice Ajay Bhanot of the Allahabad High Court in Ramu v. State of U.P., 2024 SCC OnLine All 4618. Learned Amicus prays that the appeal of the 870 convicts who had expressed their willingness to file appeals, as recorded in the of 15.07.2024, be filed within 4 weeks, if not already filed, and an updated status report be filed by NALSA giving details of the convicts who have consented to file the appeals through legal aid. Apart from the above, learned Amicus had also prayed for a direction that the in Ramu (Supra) be made applicable to all States throughout the country. Reasons given by convicts for not filing appeals 32. NALSA in its report of 06.09.2024 has opined that the convicts who have not preferred an appeal had adduced the following reasons:- "i. Convicts were not interested in preferring an appeal as they were satisfied with the current and on sentence; ii. Convicts had served a substantial part of their sentence; iii. Convicts’ appeal was rejected by the High Court and hence, they didn’t want to file an appeal before the Supreme Court; iv. Convicts lacked the financial resources to prefer an appeal; v. Convicts wanted to consult their families before deciding whether or not to prefer an appeal; vi. Convicts wanted to engage a private counsel; [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1797 Suhas Chakma v. Union of India & Ors. vii. Convicts had a fear of enhancement of sentence in the Appellate proceedings; viii. Convicts had originally pleaded guilty to the offence and were hence, not inclined to prefer an appeal; ix. Convicts had multiple cases pending against them; X. Convicts were not willing to state any specific reason for not preferring an appeal; and xi. Convicts had been recently convicted.” NALSA has stated that regular interaction is on with the convicts who have not preferred the appeals and they have been informed of the availability of free legal aid and the convicts falling in the categories (i), (x), (xi) are regularly interacting with the JVLs about their rights. The DLSAs are also conducting monthly inspections of the PLACs. Periodical reports of the DLSAs are to be submitted to the SLSAs, and the SLSAs are periodically sending reports to NALSA. The concern of Mr. Vijay Hansaria, learned Amicus Curie, is duly addressed by NALSA. AS WAS SAID:- “LEGAL AID TO POOR SHOULD NOT BE POOR LEGAL AID”.