Digital Supreme Court Reports against which the writ could be issued if the Tribunal had become functus officio. This Court rejected the argument and held that the fact that the Tribunal had become functus officio did not affect the jurisdiction of the Court to quash the because the presence of the Election Tribunal, though proper, was not necessary.30 22. However, in Udit Narain Singh Malpaharia v. Additional Member Board of Revenue,31 a four-Judge Bench of this Court drew a fine line of distinction between an appeal against a decree and a writ of certiorari to quash the of the Tribunal. Justice K Subba Rao (as the learned Chief justice then was), writing for the Bench observed that the Tribunal is a necessary party if a writ of certiorari is filed to quash its because: (a) otherwise the of quashing could be ignored; and (b) a writ of certiorari is filed to quash s of the Tribunal which are outside their jurisdiction as opposed to a regular appeal where the Court decides if the is erroneous.32 23. In Jogendrasinhji Vijaysinghji v. State of Gujarat,33 a two-Judge Bench of this Court culled out the following principles on the impleadment of Tribunals and Courts as parties in appeals against their s after analysing the above three s. Justice Dipak Misra (as the learned Chief Justice then was) writing for the Bench made the following observations:34 a. Civil Courts are “courts in the strictest sense of the term”. The Court and the judicial officer do not contest the . The High Court in its revisional jurisdiction can call for the records (if 30 [1955] 1 SCR 1104 : (1954) 2 SCC 881 [13] 31 [1963] Supp. 1 SCR 676 : AIR 1963 SC 786 32 “8. […] But there is an essential distinction between an appeal against a decree of a subordinate court and a writ of certiorari to quash the of a tribunal or authority: in the former, the proceedings are regulated by the Code of Civil Procedure and the court making the is directly subordinate to the appellate court and ordinarily acts within its bounds, though sometimes wrongly or even illegally, but in the case of the latter, a writ of certiorari is issued to quash the of a tribunal which is ordinarily outside the appellate or revisional jurisdiction of the court and the is set aside on the ground that the tribunal or the authority acted without or in excess of jurisdiction. If such a tribunal or authority is not made a party to the writ, it can easily ignore the of the High Court quashing its , for not being a party, it will not be liable to contempt. In these circumstances whoever else is a necessary party or not the authority or tribunal is certainly a necessary party to such a proceeding. In this case, the Board of Revenue and the Commissioner of Excise were rightly made parties in the writ petition.” (emphasis supplied) 33 [2015] 6 SCR 504 : (2015) 9 SCC 1 34 [2015] 6 SCR 504 : (2015) 9 SCC 1 [41] [2024] 10 S.C.R.