The principles governing a benefit, by way of a refund of tax paid, may well be construed on an analogous frame with an exemption from the payment of tax or a reduction in liability (CCT v. Dharmendra Trading Co. [CCT v. Dharmendra Trading Co. (1988) 3 SCC 570 : 1988 SCC (Tax) 432]). 107. In Elel Hotels & Investments Ltd. v. Union of India [Elel Hotels & Investments Ltd. v. Union of India (1989) 3 SCC 698], M.N. Venkatachaliah, J. (as the learned Chief Justice then was) held that : (SCC p. 708, para 20) “20. … It is now well settled that a very wide latitude is available to the legislature in the matter of classification of objects, persons and things for purposes of taxation. It must need to be so, having regard to the complexities involved in the formulation of a taxation policy. Taxation is not now a mere source of raising money to defray expenses of Government. It is a recognised fiscal tool to achieve fiscal and social objectives. The differentia of classification presupposes and proceeds on the premise that it distinguishes and keeps apart as a distinct class hotels with higher economic status reflected in one of the indicia of such economic superiority. The presumption of constitutionality has not been dislodged by the petitioners by demonstrating how even hotels, not brought into the class, have also equal or higher chargeable receipts and how the assumption of economic superiority of hotels to which the Act is applied is erroneous or irrelevant.” 108. In Spences Hotel (P) Ltd. v. State of W.B. [Spences Hotel (P) Ltd. v. State of W.B. (1991) 2 SCC 154], a two- Judge Bench, speaking through K.N. Saikia, J. revisited the precedents of this Court governing the principles of [2024] 10 S.C.R. 853 Chief Commissioner of Central Goods and Service Tax & Ors. v. M/s Safari Retreats Private Ltd. & Ors. classification in tax legislation and held : (SCC pp. 168- 69, para 24) “24. … The history of taxation is one of evolution as is the case in all human affairs. Its progress is one of constant growth and development in keeping with the advancing economic and social conditions; and the fiscal intelligence of the State has been advancing concomitantly, subjecting by new means and methods hitherto untaxed property, income, service and provisions to taxation. With the change of scientific, commercial and economic conditions and ways of life new species of property, both tangible and intangible gaining enormous values have come into existence and new means of reaching and subjecting the same to contribute towards public finance are being developed, perfected and put into practical operation by the legislatures and courts of this country, of course within constitutional limitations.” 109. The Court held that the principle of equality does not preclude the classification of property, trade, profession and events for taxation — subjecting one kind to one rate of taxation and another to a different rate. The State may exempt certain classes of property from any taxation at all and impose different specific taxes upon different species which it seeks to regulate.