The learned judge observed that the extent of disclosure mandated in RPA is fairly adequate with respect to past criminal records but not with regard to pending cases.” 92 ADR required disclosure related to information of whether the candidate has been convicted/acquitted or discharged of any criminal offence in the past, and whether six months prior to the filing of the nomination paper, whether the candidate has been accused in any pending case for an offence punishable with 494 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports With respect to assets and liabilities, the learned Judge observed that the disclosure of assets and liabilities is essential to the right to information of the voter because it would enable voters to form an opinion about whether the candidate, upon being elected in the past, had amassed wealth in their name or their family Additionally, information about dues which are payable by the candidate to public institutions would enable voters to know the candidate’s dealing with public money in the past. 76. Justice Reddi observed that the requirement to disclose assets of the candidate’s family was justified because of the prevalence of Benami transactions. Though mandating the disclosure of assets and liabilities would infringe the right to privacy of the candidate and their family, the learned Judge observed that disclosure which is in furtherance of the right to information would trump the former because it serves the larger public interest. Justice Reddi then observed that disclosure of the educational qualifications of a candidate is not an essential component of the right to information because educational qualifications do not serve any purpose for the voter to decide which candidate to cast a vote for since the characteristics of duty and concern of the people is not “monopolised by the educated”. A conclusion to the contrary, in the learned Judge’s opinion, would overlook the stark realities of the society.% 7. The following principles can be deduced from the decisions of this Court in ADR (supra) and PUCL (supra): a. The right to information of voters which is traced to Article 19(1)(a) is built upon the jurisprudence of both the first and the second phases in the evolution of the doctrine, identified above. The common thread of reasoning which runs through both the first and the second phases is that information which furthers democratic participation must be provided to citizens. imprisonment for more than two years and in which charge has been framed or cognizance is taken by the Court. With respect to the first direction, law created a distinction between serious and non-serious offences and mandates disclosure only if a candidate has been convicted of a serious offence. With respect to the second direction, the provision only mandated the disclosure of cases in which charge has been framed and excluded the disclosure of cases in which cognizance has been taken. The learned Judge held that while the non-disclosure of conviction in a serious offence is a reasonable balance which does not infringe the right to information, the non-disclosure of cases in which cognizance has been taken would seriously violate the right to information of the voter particularly because framing of charges gets delayed in a lot of cases.