As held in R. Venkatakrishnan case (supra), the quintessential ingredient to attract the offence of criminal conspiracy is agreement between two or more persons. Therefore, the question is whether it spelt in the final report dated 21.02.2000 or in any of the records of the case and documents submitted therewith, so as to find a prima facie case of commission of criminal conspiracy against the appellant. True that an agreement referred to in Section 120A, IPC may be expressed or 11 1982 CriLJ 1611 (Madras) 12 [1993] 3 SCR 543 : (1993) 3 SCC 609 1172 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports implied or in part express and in part implied. However, no record of the case or documents submitted therewith carry such an allegation/ accusation against the appellant. 29. What is the common plan or the common intention? This aspect is also conspicuously absent in the materials produced by the prosecution. In regard to all such aspects, referred above, none of the witnesses has spoken while giving statements under Section 161, Cr.PC. In this context it is also to be noted that according to the Trial Court, a very strong suspicion lingers on account of twin circumstances. In the dated 19.04.2007, the Trial Court in this regard observed and held thus: - “The learned Assistant District Government Counsel (Criminal) has argued that if the accused persons says that he had fell ill in the night and he was complaining of having pain in the chest then why his family members were not informed. The said condition is also very much suspicious. Besides these, the accused was handed over to the police by the accused Ram Prakash Chaddha himself and in the next day morning the report was lodged by him only. Keeping in view the abovementioned entire facts and circumstances sufficient evidences are available on the record for the framing of charge against the accused persons Rameshwar Dayal Pathak and Jawahar Lal and Ram Prakash Chaddha.” 30. In the light of the records of the case and the documents submitted therewith, it can only be found that the said finding of the Trial Court on the ground to proceed against the appellant is based on suppositions and suspicions, having no foundational support from the materials produced by the prosecution. With respect to the first part of the above-extracted recital from the of the Trial Court, it is to be noted that it is nobody’s case that the appellant was in the Police Station or informed of the sufferance from chest pain. As relates the second suspicion, it is to be noted that the very Trial Court itself, in the very dated 19.04.2007 itself, stated that in Crime No.351/1993 under Section 392, IPC the deceased Ram Kishore was only a witness and that the amount in cash and the draft involved was that of the appellant. It is also the case of the prosecution that the said case was registered, at the instance of the appellant [2024] 7 S.C.R.