Article 5(2)(b) of the JVA required EMTA to take all clearances for setting up the coal washery from the concerned authorities and properly [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1235 M/s Karnataka Emta Coal Mines Limited and Another v. Central Bureau of Investigation dispose off the coal rejects to the satisfaction of environmental regulations. 13.2. The explanation offered by the appellants that at that point in time, the Central Government had not come out with any specific plan to dispose off the coal rejects is validated by the reply furnished by the Minister of State, MoC, in the Lok Sabha in response to an unstarred question seeking an answer from the Government of India as to whether it had framed any National Policy for exploitation of the coal rejects. The reply given was that the Government had not framed any National Policy for exploitation of coal rejects and the same was still under consideration. That being the position, it was left to KPCL and KECML to devise a satisfactory and safe method to dispose off the coal rejects. This was done in terms of Article 5(2)(b) of the JVA that required KECML to dispose off the rejects in a manner that would ensure that there was no threat to the environment. We do not find any irregularity in the route adopted to dispose off the coal rejects. 14. WAS KECML REQUIRED TO ACCOUNT FOR THE COAL REJECTS? 14.1. Much emphasis has been laid by the respondent-CBI on the contents of the allocation letter dated 10th November, 2003 issued by the MoC, Government of India to KPCL to canvass that the coal mined from the allocated blocks was to be exclusively used to meet the requirements of coal in the proposed thermal power station namely, BTPS and on the condition that no coal was to be sold /delivered/transferred/disposed of except for the purpose of power generation and with the previous approval of the Central Government. We are afraid, the said letter cannot be read in isolation and out of context for the very same reasons as have been noted above. 14.2. When the Central Government did not formulate any National Policy for exploitation of coal rejects, it is fallacious on the part of the respondent-CBI to argue that the conditions imposed by the Central Government while conveying its approval to the State Government for grant of mining lease in favour of KPCL ought to have formed a part of the lease deed to be executed. Fact of the matter is that there was no such condition imposed in the Notification dated 16th July, 2004, issued by the MoC. The said notification simply specified the end use of 1236 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the coal from the allocated coal blocks for supply to KPCL to generate thermal power in the proposed BPCL. The original Mining Plan of September, 2004 submitted by KECML to the MoC for its approval also did not elucidate the manner in which the coal rejects were to be disposed of.