Therefore, it is the duty of the Custodian as the trustee of the enemy property to ensure that the said property is saved from attachment, seizure or sale in execution of a decree of a civil court or s of any other authority. Section 10 of the Act also categorically states that where the Custodian proposes to sell any security issued by a company and belonging to an enemy, the company may, with the consent of the Custodian, purchase the securities, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any law or in any regulations of the company and any securities so purchased may be re-issued by the company as and when it thinks fit so to do. Where the Custodian executes and transfers any securities, he has to register them (securities) in the name of the transferee, notwithstanding that the regulations of the [2024] 2 S.C.R. 909 Lucknow Nagar Nigam & Others v. Kohli Brothers Colour Lab. Pvt. Ltd. & Others company do not permit such registration in the absence of the certificate, script or other evidence of title relating to the securities transferred. The expression securities includes shares, stocks, bonds, debentures and debenture stock but does not include bills of exchange. On sale of any immovable property vested in him to any person and on receipt of the sale proceeds of such property, the Custodian has to issue a certificate of sale in favour of the transferee and even in the absence of handing over the original title deeds of the property, the sale shall be valid and conclusive proof of transfer of ownership of such property to such person, who has the certificate registered in his name. Such transfer is obviously from the owner of the enemy property who is represented by the Custodian who only executes the sale and transfers the ownership of such property from the ownership of the enemy, enemy subject or enemy firm to the buyer of such property. The Custodian does not sell the enemy property as the owner of such property as no ownership rights are vested in him. Section 15 of the Act states that the Custodian may call from persons who, in his opinion, have any interest in, or control over, any enemy property vested in him under this Act, such returns as may be prescribed. In such an event, every person from whom a return is called for shall be bound to submit such return within the prescribed period. All such returns shall be recorded in such registers as may be prescribed, which shall be open to inspection subject to reasonable restrictions as may be imposed by the Custodian, if in the opinion of the Custodian, the person seeking inspection is interested in any particular enemy property as a creditor or otherwise. Such being the position of a Custodian, who under the Act, acts as the trustee for the enemy property under the Act and not as the owner of the property, but as a protector of the property vested in him, the Custodian can never be an owner or having any right, title or interest in the enemy property as owner.