This was opposed to potable liquor which is fit for human consumption. It was finally observed that in respect of such distilleries having composite licencees, the State will have to provide the cost of supervisors and the same could not be foisted on such distilleries. 10.8 Jeevan Reddy, J., in Bihar Distillery, also held that insofar as “intoxicating liquors or potable liquors” are concerned, they fall in the exclusive province of the State. However, alcohol can be used for the industrial purposes even without denaturing it. Significantly, it was held that Entry 8 - List II uses the expression “intoxicating liquors” which signifies “liquor for human consumption”. The absence of the words “for human consumption” in Entry 8 – List II is irrelevant as the word “intoxicating” signifies human consumption, i.e., as a beverage and all aspects of its production, manufacture, possession, transport, sale and purchase of “intoxicating liquors” are covered under the said Entry. Also the accidental error in para 85 of the Synthetics and Chemicals (7J) was explained to say that all 2112 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports potable liquor shall be governed by Entry 8 - List II which is within the exclusive domain of the State. Further, Entry 8 - List II is outside the purview of Entry 24 - List II and the Union cannot take control of “intoxicating liquors” by making a declaration in terms of Entry 52 - List I. It was further observed that Synthetics and Chemicals (7J) mainly dealt with “industrial alcohol”, i.e., denatured rectified spirit. 10.9 In Bihar Distillery, this Court further observed that the States have the power to legislate under Entry 33(a) – List III provided the field is not occupied by the Union. That there was a clear line of demarcation at the stage of removal or clearance of the product, i.e., if the clearance is for “industrial” purpose, the duties of excise and all other control is with the Union but if the removal or clearance is for obtaining or manufacturing “potable liquor”, the levy of duty and other control is with the State. It was observed that there was a need for joint control and supervision of the process of manufacture of rectified liquor and its use and disposal for ensuring that “industrial alcohol” was not misused by diverting it for potable purpose and consequently certain concrete observations were made in the said which is of a binding nature. 10.10 The challenge to the notification issued by the excise commissioner, Uttar Pradesh dated 18.05.1990 was a subject matter of controversy in Vam Organic I, in the context of legislative competence of the State of Uttar Pradesh to impose tax or levy on “industrial alcohol”, ethyl alcohol and rectified spirit. It was observed that the expression “industrial alcohol” is not used in any of the three Lists of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution. Referring to Synthetics and Chemicals (7J), this Court observed that the in the aforesaid case proceeded to consider that rectified spirit was the ingredient for “intoxicating liquors” or alcoholic liquors for human consumption.