18. Adverting to the impugned , learned Senior Counsel contended that the findings that (i) the insurer, out of sheer desperation, bought the 6 Hi configuration; (ii) the depreciation rate as calculated by the NIACL was erroneous; and (iii) NIACL’s letter to the surveyor asking for a revised calculation was not a healthy practice, are all erroneous findings which are completely untenable. According to learned Senior Counsel, the Insured in violation of the undertaking did not take any steps for reinstatement; that there was no delay on the part of the Insurance Company and in fact on account payment of Rs. 4,92,80,905/- had been released as early as [2024] 5 S.C.R. 293 New India Assurance Company Ltd. Through its Manager v. M/s Tata Steel Ltd. on 24.03.1999; that the NCDRC overlooked the fact that the Insured did not comeback to the Insurance Company with any information for about 08 months and only on 26.11.1999, followed by another letter of 10.02.2000 asked for extension of time limit for reinstatement of the insured property; that the same was accommodated by the NIACL and on 07.03.2000, an extension of 12 months was given and which time limit period was also not adhered to; that the Insured after receiving the interim payment claimed that Rs. 3.75 crores were advanced to M/s Flat Products and the said vendor neither repaired the insured property nor replaced the same; that nearly two years later on 28.06.2001, M/s Flat Products informed the Insured that they had lost their expertise and, as such, the delay could not be attributed to the NIACL; that the Insured informed the NIACL about having installed a 6 Hi Cold Rolling Mill (as against the insured property of 20 Hi Cold Rolling Mill), on 27.03.2002, without revealing the date of actual installation and without giving any comparable specification, which unilateral act cannot be termed as “an act of sheer desperation” as termed by the NCDRC. 19. It is submitted by the learned Senior Counsel that under the aforesaid circumstances, the Reinstatement Value Clause was rendered inoperative. However, the Insurance Company gave another opportunity to act in good faith and provide necessary specification and particulars, which were not provided for, in spite of the undertaking in the letter of 09.07.2002. Hence, by no stretch of imagination could the delay be attributable to the Insurance Company. 20. Insofar as the percentage of depreciation was concerned, it was contended that the NCDRC erroneously disregarded the affidavit filed by the Insurance Company clarifying the standard practice. On the finding about the practice adopted by the Insurance Company as “not being a healthy practice”, Mr. Sanjay Jain submitted that the NIACL gave ample opportunities to provide cogent material and it is only upon their failure to furnish the necessary documents, as obligated in the policy, that NIACL was constrained to settle the claim on market value basis by applying the necessary percentage of depreciation. It was contended that in the report of 11.12.2001, the joint surveyors, while arriving at the depreciation rate of 32%, did not have any material.