According to her, even the very presence of Shashi Bai (PW-13) was doubtful inasmuch as, her statement was recorded three days after the alleged incident took place. She further submitted that the appellant has already undergone incarceration for a period of more than 11 years (as on the date) and that there being no evidence on record against the appellant to show that the appellant had shared the same intention as his co-accused-Raju Sharma to kill Vinod Sai, the appellant should be given benefit of doubt. 9. However, the learned counsel Ms. Mrinal Gopal Elker, appearing for the respondent-State would vehemently submit that there being concurrent finding of facts recorded by the two Courts below, this Court in exercise of the powers under Article-136 of the Constitution of India, should not interfere with the same, more particularly, when the prosecution had proved the charges levelled against the present appellant beyond reasonable doubt. She has placed heavy reliance on the evidence of Dr. C.S. Jain (PW-17), who had carried out the post-mortem of the deceased, who had opined in his post-mortem report that the cause of death of the appellant was due to several injuries sustained by him and that such injuries are possible with the weapon recovered from the appellant-accused. 10. Having regard to the submissions made by the learned counsel for the parties, and to the evidence available on record, it appears that the guilt of the appellant was sought to be established by the prosecution by examining as many as seventeen witnesses, including the informant Kamal Singh and the other eye-witnesses, as also the Shashi Bai (PW-13), who was the mother of the deceased. It is true that except the two witnesses, namely, Pratap Singh (PW-14) and Shashi Bai (PW-13), the other material witnesses had turned hostile. Nonetheless, it is pertinent to note that the evidence of witnesses cannot be totally discarded, merely because they have turned hostile to the case of prosecution during the course of trial. [2024] 8 S.C.R. 933 Dinesh Sahu Alias Dinnu v. The State of Madhya Pradesh The informant, Kamal Singh (PW-6), had admitted his signatures on the Dehati Nalisi (Ex.P/1), which was recorded immediately after the incident in question involving both the accused in the alleged incident. It is further required to be noted that one of the panch witnesses, namely, Pratap Singh (PW-14) has duly supported the case of the prosecution as regards the recovery of the alleged weapon, Khukri, from the house of the present appellant. Though the said witness was thoroughly cross-examined by the defense counsel, nothing significant adverse to the case of prosecution has come on record. Of course, the learned counsel for the appellant had tried to impeach the credibility of the said witness by submitting that he was an interested witness as he was known to the deceased Vinod Sai, and also since he had come to the Court in a drunken condition, the said fact was taken into consideration by the Trial Court at the time of recording his deposition by noting that though, the witness was drunk, he was perfectly in sound state of mind to understand the questions put to him and was able to give his deposition.