If in doing his official duty, he acted in excess of his duty, but there is a reasonable connection between the act and the performance of the official duty, the excess will not be a sufficient ground to deprive the public servant of the protection. The question is not as to the nature of the offence such as whether the alleged offence contained an element necessarily dependent upon the offender being a public servant, but whether it was committed by a public servant acting or purporting to act as such in the discharge of his official capacity. Before Section 197 can be invoked, it must be shown that the official concerned was accused of an offence alleged to have been committed by him while acting or purporting to act in the discharge of his official duties. It is not the duty [2024] 12 S.C.R. 811 Om Prakash Yadav v. Niranjan Kumar Upadhyay & Ors. which requires examination so much as the act, because the official act can be performed both in the discharge of the official duty as well as in dereliction of it. The act must fall within the scope and range of the official duties of the public servant concerned. It is the quality of the act which is important and the protection of this section is available if the act falls within the scope and range of his official duty. There cannot be any universal rule to determine whether there is a reasonable connection between the act done and the official duty, nor is it possible to lay down any such rule. One safe and sure test in this regard would be to consider if the omission or neglect on the part of the public servant to commit the act complained of could have made him answerable for a charge of dereliction of his official duty. If the answer to this question is in the affirmative, it may be said that such act was committed by the public servant while acting in the discharge of his official duty and there was every connection with the act complained of and the official duty of the public servant…” (emphasis supplied) 59. In Sankaran Moitra v. Sadhna Das and Another reported in (2006) 4 SCC 584, the appellant police officer was accused of killing the complainant’s husband while carrying out a lathi-charge near the polling-booth on an election day. While the Bench in its majority opinion had held that the appellant was acting in the discharge of his official duty, C.K. Thakker, J, in his minority opinion had stated that the act complained of had no nexus, reasonable connection or relevance to the official act or duty of such public servant and was otherwise, illegal, unlawful and high-handed. He went on to state that it is not only the “power” but the “duty” of the court to apply its mind to the factual situation before it. The Courts must ensure that on the one hand, the public servant is protected if the case is covered by Section 197 CrPC and on the other hand, that appropriate action would be allowed to be taken if the provision is not attracted and the accused is trying to take undue advantage of the section under the guise of his position as a public servant.