443 Union of India & Ors. v. Santosh Kumar Tiwari This Court set aside the punishment of removal and remitted the matter to the Appellate Authority for considering imposition of one or the other punishment as specified in the extant rules. 19. In the case on hand the CRPF Rules provide for imposition of the punishment of compulsory retirement though the CRPF Act itself does not provide for it in specific terms. Therefore, the argument on behalf of the respondent is that the CRPF Rules are ultra vires the CRPF Act. In support of this submission reliance has been placed on a decision of this Court in Subash Chandra Yadav (supra) where it was observed: “14……. It is well settled that rules framed under the provisions of a statute form part of the statute. In other words, rules have statutory force. But before a rule can have the effect of a statutory provision, two conditions must be fulfilled, namely, (1) it must conform to the provisions of the statute under which it is framed; and (2) it must also come within the scope and purview of the rule-making power of the authority framing the rule. If either of these two conditions is not fulfilled, the rule so framed would be void.” (Emphasis supplied) 20. The CRPF Act while dealing with offences and punishments, categorizes offences in two parts. One “more heinous offences” (vide Section 9) and the other “less heinous offences” (vide Section 10). These two categories of offences entail a punishment of imprisonment and/or fine. The usual disciplinary action which befalls on a delinquent employee is envisaged as a minor punishment under Section 11 of the CRPF Act even though many of the punishments specified therein, such as dismissal, reduction in rank and removal from office of distinction, in common service jurisprudence are considered major punishment. That apart, Section 11 which describes minor punishments declares: (a) that the minor punishments specified in Section 11 may be awarded “in lieu of, or in addition to, suspension or dismissal”; and (b) that the power of the Commandant or any other authority or officer, as may be prescribed, to award the specified punishment “is subject to any rules made under the CRPF Act”. Another important feature is that Section 11 does not use common expressions such as 444 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “dismissal from service” or “removal from service” while describing the punishments. Though, Rule 27 (vide Table) uses those expressions. 21. The question which would therefore arise for our consideration is whether Section 11 is exhaustive as far as minor punishments imposable under the CRPF Act are concerned or it merely provides for a skeletal framework to be supplemented by the rules framed under the Act. 22. In Ghulam Mohd. Bhat (supra), a question arose whether punishment of removal from service could be awarded to a Constable in the Force. The argument against the award of punishment of removal from service was that it is not one of the punishments specified in Section 11 of the CRPF Act.