etc. court is to implement the justice of the legislation. Rights vested by virtue of a statute cannot be divested by this equitable doctrine (see V.P.R.V. Chockalingam Chetty v. Seethai Ache [AIR 1927 PC 252 : 26 All LJ 371] ).” 8. Reliance was also placed by the learned senior counsel on the of Ashok Kumar Gupta & Ors. v. Union of India & Ors.12, wherein the Division Bench of Calcutta High Court, after adverting to the extant principles concerning the maintainability of writ proceedings as on the date of the institution, held that an employer which had been privatised during the pendency of a writ appeal filed against the rejecting the writ petition would continue to be amenable to writ jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution of India. The relevant portion of Ashok Kumar Gupta (supra) relied upon is extracted hereinbelow: - “32. It is nobody’s case that the writ petition was not maintainable when it was filed. The cause of action for filing the writ petition crystallized at a point of time when the respondent authority was, admittedly, subject to the writ jurisdiction. The said cause of action confers a vested right to the writ petitioners to have their grievances adjudicated in a writ proceeding. No one can contend that the writ petitioners have brought the present situation by their conduct. The change of circumstances is not attributable to the petitioners. 33. For the aforesaid reasons, we are of the opinion that the instant appeal is very much maintainable, and the preliminary objection raised on behalf of the respondent company cannot be sustained in the eye of law. Therefore, the said preliminary objection regarding maintainability of this appeal as raised by the respondent company is rejected.” 9. Learned senior counsel further contended that the scope of issuing a writ, , or direction under Article 226 of the Constitution of India is much broader than the high prerogative writs issued by the British Courts and this position has been recognised by this Court in the case of Andi Mukta Sadguru Shree Muktajee Vandas Swami Suvarna 12 (2007) SCC OnLine Cal 264 942 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Jayanti Mahotsav Smarak Trust and Ors. v. V.R. Rudani & Ors.13, and following the said decision, Courts in India have consistently issued writs even to private persons performing public duties and this position has further been reiterated by the recent of this Court in the case of Kaushal Kishor vs. State of Uttar Pradesh and Ors.14. The relevant portions of Andi Mukta (supra) as relied upon by the learned senior counsel are extracted hereinbelow: - “16. The law relating to mandamus has made the most spectacular advance. It may be recalled that the remedy by prerogative writs in England started with very limited scope and suffered from many procedural disadvantages. To overcome the difficulties, Lord Gardiner (the Lord Chancellor) in pursuance of Section 3(1)(e) of the Law Commission Act, 1965, requested the Law Commission “to review the existing remedies for the judicial control of administrative acts and omissions with a view to evolving a simpler and more effective procedure”.