1 and respondent no. 6 herein respectively. It was argued that the appeals filed before the Additional Commissioner under Section 247 of the Revenue Code were not maintainable as there was a remedy available under Section 210 of the same code. 69. Application before the Collector to get the Sale set aside has to be made within a period of 30 days. It is after considering the objections that the sale is to be confirmed. Section 210 of the Revenue Code reads: “Section 210. Application to set aside sale by person owning to holding interest in property.— (1) Where immovable property has been sold under this Code, any person either owning such property or holding an interest therein by virtue of a title acquired before such sale may, 528 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports at any time within thirty days from the date of sale, apply to the Collector to have the sale set aside on his holding depositing- (a) For payment to the purchaser a sum equal to five per cent of the purchase money (b) For payment on account of the arrear, the amounts specified in the proclamation of sale as that for the recovery of which the sale was ed, less any amount which may have been paid since the date of sale on that account; and (c) The cost of the sale: Provided that, such application may be made by such person belonging to a Schedule Tribe within one hundred and eighty days from the date of sale. (2) If such deposit is made within thirty days or, as the case may be, one hundred and eighty days from the date of sale, the Collector shall pass an setting aside the sale.” 70. As rightly argued by Mr. Dave, the said remedy was rendered illusory as the sale was finalised by the Tahsildar much before the confirmation by the Collector. In fact, the sale certificate was issued & the possession was also handed over to the appellant. The confirmation was done by the Tahsildar much before the expiry of 30 days. There was nothing left for the Collector to consider and decide under Section 210 of the Revenue Code. It is further pertinent to note that the provision may be applicable in case of owner of the property but not to a lender who has valid subsisting mortgage. The argument that lender is not required to make deposit before challenging the sale is not something which is borne on plain reading of the language of Section 210. 71. Section 210(1) of the Revenue Code provides that an application can be made where an immovable property has been sold under the Revenue Code by i) owner of the property; and ii) holding interest therein by virtue of a title acquired before such sale. It would be relevant to state that the respondent No. 6 does not fall within the category as provided under Section 210(1) of the Revenue Code nor [2024] 7 S.C.R. 529 M/s Al-Can Export Pvt.