ii. What is the scope and standard of judicial scrutiny that an application under Section 11(6) of the Act, 1996 can be subjected to when a plea of “accord and satisfaction” is taken by the defendant? iii. What is the effect of the decision of this Court in In Re: Interplay Between Arbitration Agreements under the Arbitration and Conciliation Act 1996 and the Indian Stamp Act 1899 on the scope of powers of the referral court under Section 11 of the Act, 1996? E. ANALYSIS 35. Clause 13 of the insurance policy issued in favour of the respondent contains the following arbitration clause: “13) If any dispute or difference shall arise as to the quantum to be paid under this Policy (liability being otherwise admitted) such difference shall independently of all other questions be referred to the decision of a sole arbitrator to be appointed in writing by the parties to or if they cannot agree upon a single arbitrator within 30 days of any party invoking arbitration the same shall be referred to a panel of three arbitrators, comprising of arbitrators, one to be appointed by each of the parties to the dispute/ difference and the third arbitrator to be appointed by such two arbitrators and arbitration shall be conducted under and in accordance with the provision of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 861 SBI General Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Krish Spinning It is clearly agreed and understood that no dispute or difference shall be referrable to arbitration as hereinbefore proved, if the Company has disputed or not accepted liability under or in respect of this policy. It is hereby expressed stipulated and declared that it shall be a condition precedent to any right of action or suit upon this Policy that the award by such arbitrator/ arbitrators of the amount of the loss or damaged shall be first obtained” 36. A preliminary objection was raised on behalf of the appellant that the arbitration clause as contained in the insurance policy referred to above is not attracted in the present case as there is no admission of liability on the part of the appellant, whereas the said arbitration clause envisages reference to arbitration only in cases where liability is admitted and there is a dispute as regards the quantum of liability. 37. However, we find no merit in the aforesaid submission of the appellant. It is evident from the record that the appellant had admitted its liability with respect to the first claim and had even disbursed an amount of Rs 84,19,579/- in pursuance of the signing of the advance discharge voucher by the respondent. Thus, it is clearly a case of admission of liability by the appellant. However, the quantum of liability is in dispute as the amount claimed by the respondent is at variance with the amount admitted by the appellant. Thus, the dispute being one of quantum and not of liability, it falls within the ambit of the conditional arbitration clause as contained in the insurance policy.