38. Placing reliance on Rekhaben, the NCDRC observed that Sahara India had been overruled in Rekhaben and therefore consumer complaint was dismissed. We find that the approach of the NCDRC is erroneous for the following reasons: i) Firstly, the NCDRC has failed to note that the details of the policies extracted in the table above do not state as in whose name the said policies were issued. On perusal of the dates of birth declared in the policies, it is not clear as to whose dates of birth are stated therein. ii) Secondly, the dates of issuance of policies have not been mentioned. More significantly, by merely mentioning the details as above stated would not establish the case of the insurance company. There was no corroboration of the said fact either by producing copies of the aforesaid policies or by examining the [2024] 4 S.C.R. 747 Mahakali Sujatha v. The Branch Manager, Future Generali India Life Insurance Company Limited & another officers of the various insurance companies which had issued the policies so as to establish the fact that the said policies had indeed been issued to the insured in to prove material suppression of the fact of other policies obtained by the insurer in the proposal form. In the absence of any corroboration of the aforesaid details by letting in proper evidence, the mere mentioning of the half baked details in the affidavit would not amount to proof of the said fact. The NCDRC has thus failed to take note of the fact that the aforesaid details have not been supported by other corroborative evidence. The mere mentioning of certain details in an affidavit of evidence is not proof of the facts unless that is supported either by other documentary and/ or oral evidence. iii) Further, the NCDRC was also not right in finding fault with the complainant not mentioning in her affidavit the evidence that the insured had taken policies from other insurance companies and that the details given in the version of the respondent company were not true. 39. Next, we also find that the declaration form asked the following queries which were accordingly answered in the negative. The queries are extracted as under: “6.1 Details of applications submitted to & existing life insurance policies with future Generali and with any insurer. (In case of housewife, major student or minor life to be Assured please give details of husbands and parents insurance also) 6.2 Whether any proposal for life cover or critical illness Rider or Accident and Disability Benefit Rider, application for revival of any Policy has been made to any life insurer, declined/postponed/dropped/accepted or revived at modified rates” On a reading of Query 6.1, what was sought was details of applications submitted to and existing life insurance policies with Future Generali (respondent company) and with any (other) insurer. Further details sought were in case of housewife, major student or minor life to be assured and to give details of husband’s and parents’ insurance also. It is not clear as to whether Query 6.1 referred to details of insurance 748 [2024] 4 S.C.R.