(3) When an under sub-section (1) is made, the court may, if it is of opinion that in the interests of the offender and of the public it is expedient so to do, in addition pass a supervision directing that the offender shall remain under the supervision of a probation officer named in the during such period, not being less than one year, as may be specified therein, and may in such supervision , impose such conditions as it deems necessary for the due supervision of the offender. (4) The court making a supervision under sub- section (3) shall require the offender, before he is released, to enter into a bond, with or without sureties, to observe the conditions specified in such and such additional conditions with respect to residence, abstention from intoxicants or any other matter as the court may, having regard to the particular 684 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports circumstances, consider fit to impose for preventing a repetition of the same offence or a commission of other offences by the offender. (5) The court making a supervision under sub- section (3) shall explain to the offender the terms and conditions of the and shall forthwith furnish one copy of the supervision to each of the offenders, the sureties, if any, and the probation officer concerned.” Section 6 of the Probation of Offenders Act 1958 “6. Restrictions on imprisonment of offenders under twenty-one years of age.— (1) When any person under twenty-one years of age is found guilty of having committed an offence punishable with imprisonment (but not with imprisonment for life), the court by which the person is found guilty shall not sentence him to imprisonment unless it is satisfied that, having regard to the circumstances of the case including the nature of the offence and the character of the offender, it would not be desirable to deal with him under section 3 or section 4, and if the court passes any sentence of imprisonment on the offender, it shall record its reasons for doing so. (2) For the purpose of satisfying itself whether it would not be desirable to deal under section 3 or section 4 with an offender referred to in sub-section (1), the court shall call for a report from the probation officer and consider the report, if any, and any other information available to it relating to the character and physical and mental condition of the offender.” 28. Before passing the sentence on a convict, after rendering conviction, the Judge shall consider the feasibility of proceeding in accordance with the provisions of Section 360 of the CrPC, 1973 which speaks of releasing a convict on probation of good conduct or after admonition. Being a beneficial provision dealing with a reformative aspect, it is the bounden duty of the Judge to consider the application of this provision before proceeding to hear the accused on sentence. While [2024] 5 S.C.R. 685 Sunita Devi v. The State of Bihar & Anr. doing so, the Judge has to hear the accused and the prosecution.