In case of persons found indulged in undesirable activities amounting to degradation of dignity of Mission, Mission Director shall reserve right to terminate him / her with immediate effect.” (emphasis supplied) 32. Perusal of Clause 4 makes it clear that ordinarily, for inefficiency, one month’s notice is sufficient. The Clause also makes it clear that if someone is found to have indulged in “undesirable activities”, the Mission Director was competent to terminate such person’s services “with immediate effect ”. We are afraid that the Respondents have placed themselves in a Catch-224 situation. If the dated 30.03.2013 falls within the former part of Clause 4, as contended by the respondent, on the premise that it is a case of termination simpliciter and non-stigmatic, then one month’s notice was required 4 Colloquially, when one is placed in a dilemma due to two contradictory conditions. The phrase was popularized by Joseph Heller’s novel of the same name, first published in 1961. 912 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports to be issued to the appellant, which admittedly was not done in the instant matter. Arguendo, were the dated 30.03.2013 to be seen as falling under the latter part of Clause 4, it would be stigmatic, as made clear by the use of the words “indulged in undesirable activities amounting to degradation of dignity of Mission”. 33. In either of the above-noted eventualities, the Impugned would have to necessarily be set aside. Nevertheless, let us examine the reasoning of the Division Bench, which opined that the is non-stigmatic and simpliciter non-renewal of contract. The dated 30.03.2013 was, quite obviously, the culmination of the process set into motion by the two SCNs, which has been overlooked by the Division Bench. The mere non-mention of the background situation or the SCNs in the dated 30.03.2013 cannot, by itself, be determinative of the nature of the . As held by this Court in Samsher Singh v State of Punjab (1974) 2 SCC 8315 and Anoop Jaiswal v Government of India (1984) 2 SCC,6 the form of an is not its final determinant and the Court can find out the real reason and true character behind terminating/removing an employee. Moreover, the Impugned also does not deal with Clause 4. Interestingly, this Clause also escaped the attention of or/and was not brought to the notice of the learned Single Judge either. 34. It is profitable to refer to what five learned Judges of this Court laid down in Parshotam Lal Dhingra v Union of India, 1957 SCC OnLine SC 5: “28. The position may, therefore, be summed up as follows: Any and every termination of service is not a dismissal, removal or reduction in rank. A termination of service brought about by the exercise of a contractual right is not per se dismissal or removal, as has been held by this Court in Satish Chander Anand v. Union of India [(1953) 5 “80. …The form of the is not decisive as to whether the is by way of punishment.