This legal framework for such withdrawal was formulated after giving due consideration to the appropriate procedure for withdrawal and balancing it with the objectives of the IBC. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1851 GLAS Trust Company LLC v. BYJU Raveendran & Ors. 81. Even if the procedural infirmity is kept aside, once the CIRP was admitted, the proceedings became collective, and all creditors of the Corporate Debtor became stakeholders. As noted in Swiss Ribbons (supra), even while invoking Rule 11 to allow withdrawal, the NCLT must hear all the concerned parties and consider all relevant factors on the facts of each case. The appellant raised detailed objections before the NCLAT to the source of the funds for the settlement and a reasonable apprehension that there was round tripping of funds, in violation of the passed by the Delaware Court on 18 March 2024. These objections were summarily dismissed by the NCLAT, relying solely on the undertaking filed by Riju Raveendran. The only finding in this regard is found in paragraph 44. The NCLAT relies entirely on the undertaking filed by Riju Raveendran and states that “although, the Applicant is not satisfied about the undertaking but the Applicant has also not brought on record any evidence to the contrary that the money which is being offered has actually been brought by Riju Raveendran from the money disbursed to the borrower in terms of credit agreement or has been taken out of the coffers of the CD.” Alleged facts such as the fraudulent transfer of USD 533 million to a hedge fund in the United States; the s of the US Court restraining the brothers from transferring or dissipating the amount; the contempt proceedings against Mr Riju Raveendran; the ongoing investigation by the Enforcement Directorate against the first respondent and the Corporate Debtor; and other attempts by the Corporate Debtor to dissipate assets, were not adequately addressed by the NCLAT. iii. Decisions of this Court cited in the Impugned Judgement 82. The respondents relied on the decisions of this Court in Ashok G. Rajani v. Beacon Trusteeship Ltd.,51 and Abhishek Kumar (supra) to argue that before the CoC is formed, the proceedings are between the applicant creditor and the debtor and thus, Rule 11 can be invoked to allow the settlement. In the Impugned Judgement too, the NCLAT relies on the decisions of this Court in Abhishek Kumar (supra) and Kamal K Singh (supra), to justify the invocation of Rule 11 of the NCLAT Rules and observe that there has been “a change in the law on settlement”. The respondents are correct to contend that each of 51 2022 SCC OnLine SC 1275 1852 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports these decisions was rendered after Section 12A was inserted and Regulation 30A was amended. However, it is important to understand the context in which this Court upheld the invocation of Rule 11 of the NCLAT Rules and whether these decisions considered the prescribed procedure under Section 12A and the amended Regulation 30A. We are of the considered view that these judgements do not advance the case of the respondents.