Further, the proviso provides that a suit to obtain relief respecting, or compensation for wrong to, immovable property held by or on behalf of the defendant, may where the relief sought can be entirely obtained through his personal obedience be instituted either in the Court within the local limits of whose jurisdiction the property is situate, or in the Court within the local limits of whose jurisdiction the [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1299 Rohit Kochhar v. Vipul Infrastructure Developers Ltd. & Ors. defendant actually and voluntarily resides, or carries on business, or personally works for gain. 15. Thus, the pivotal question before us is whether the relief being sought by the plaintiff in respect to the suit property can be entirely obtained through the personal obedience of the defendants. If yes, then the facts of the present case would warrant the application of the proviso to Section 16 of the CPC and the High Court on its original side would be competent to entertain the suit instituted by the plaintiff. 16. This Court in Harshad Chiman Lal Modi v. DLF Universal Ltd. reported in (2005) 7 SCC 791 observed that Section 16 of the CPC recognises a well-established principle that actions against res or property should be brought in the forum where such res is situate. A court within whose territorial jurisdiction the property is not situate has no power to deal with and decide the rights or interests in such property. In other words, this Court held that a court has no jurisdiction over a dispute in which it cannot give an effective . 17. On the proviso to Section 16, the Court observed that the proviso, no doubt, states that though the court cannot, in case of immovable property situate beyond jurisdiction, grant a relief in rem still it can entertain a suit where relief sought can be obtained through the personal obedience of the defendant. The proviso is based on a well- known maxim “equity acts in personam”, recognised by the Chancery Courts in England. The Equity Courts had jurisdiction to entertain certain suits relating to immovable properties situated abroad through personal obedience of the defendant. The Court observed that the principle on which the maxim was based was that the courts could grant relief in suits relating to immovable property situated abroad by enforcing their s by process in personam i.e., by arrest of the defendant or by attachment of his property. 18. The Court held that a suit for specific performance and delivery of possession was covered under clause (d) to Section 16 of the CPC and thus the parties, even by agreement, cannot confer territorial jurisdiction on a court within whose territory the subject matter is not situated. 19. Recently, this Court in Babasaheb Dhondiba Kute v. Radhu Vithoba Barde reported in 2024 INSC 122 held that the conveyance by way of sale would take place only at the time of registration of a sale 1300 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports deed in accordance with Section 17 of the Registration Act, 1908.