[. ]” (emphasis supplied) 48. According to Rule 6(1)(a), the inter-se merit of the judicial officers plays a greater role in making promotions. The passing of a suitability test is a measure of assessment of the merit of the judicial officers under consideration for promotion. The passing of a suitability test, in other words, is complemented by the requirement of observing the principle of merit-cum-seniority. Rule 8 particularly provides for the procedure for promotion for “assessing and testing the merit and suitability” of the judicial officers. It states that the High Court “may” hold a written objective test of 75 marks and viva voce of 25 marks in to ascertain and examine the legal knowledge and efficiency in the legal field of the judicial officers. It is important to note that the use of the word “may” in Rule 8 confers discretion on the High Court with respect to the conduct of the written objective test and viva voce. In comparison, Rule 9, which lays down the procedure for a limited competitive examination while implementing Rule 6(1) (b), uses the word “shall” in a mandatory sense. The use of the word “may” in Rule 8 indicates that the High Court has certain discretion in terms of the conduct of the written objective test and viva voce for promotion of judicial officers in terms of Rule 6(1)(a). 49. Moreover, the Rules in the present case are entirely silent in regard to the prescription of a minimum eligibility for clearing a competitive test, on the one hand, and the viva voce, on the other hand. If the Rules were to specifically provide in a given case that the criterion for eligibility would be on the combined marks of both the written test and the viva voce, the matter would have been entirely different.21 Rule 6(1)(a) and Rule 8 being silent as regards the manner in which merit and suitability would be determined, administrative instructions can supplement the Rules in that regard. This is not a case where the Rules have made a specific provision in which event the administrative instructions cannot transgress a rule which is being made in pursuance of the power conferred under Article 309 of the Constitution. For instance, if the Rules were to provide that there 21 P K Ramachandra Iyer v. Union of India, [1984] 2 SCR 200 : (1984) 2 SCC 141, [44] [2024] 2 S.C.R. 1167 Dr Kavita Kamboj v. High Court of Punjab and Haryana & Ors would be a minimum eligibility requirement only in the written test, conceivably, it may not be open to prescribe a minimum eligibility requirement in the viva voce by an administrative instruction. Similarly, if the Rules were to provide that the eligibility cut-off would be taken on the basis of the overall marks which are obtained in both the written test and the viva voce, conceivably, it would not be open to the administrative instructions to modify the terms. 50. The appropriate authority cannot amend or supersede statutory rules by administrative actions.