The executing court is in such a case vested with authority to issue necessary directions.” 8. In Balmukand v. Veer Chand [AIR 1954 All 643 : 1954 All LJ 255 : 1954 All WR (HC) 424] the decree for specific performance of a contract of sale was silent as to the relief of delivery of possession even though such relief was claimed in the suit. It was held by the Allahabad High Court that the executing court was still competent to deliver the possession. It was further held that it was not necessary in a suit for specific performance either to separately claim possession nor was it necessary for the court to pass a decree for possession. A decree for specific performance of a contract includes everything incidental to be done by one party or another to complete the sale transaction, the rights and obligations of the parties in such a matter being governed by Section 55 of the Transfer of Property Act. In Janardan Kishore v. Girdhari Lal [AIR 1957 Pat 701 : 1957 BLJR 368] the Patna High Court took the view that the relief of possession is inherent in a relief for specific performance of contract for lease, and the court executing a decree for specific performance of such a contract can grant possession of the property to the decree-holder even though the decree did not provide for delivery of possession. In Subodh Kumar Banerjee v. Hiramoni Dasi [AIR 1955 Cal 267] the Calcutta High Court took a similar view that the right to recover possession springs out of the contract which was being specifically enforced and not as a result of the execution and completion of the conveyance, and as such the -debtor was bound to deliver possession to the decree-holder. 9. In Mohammed Ali Abdul Chanimomin v. Bisahemi Kom Abdulla Saheb Momin [AIR 1973 Mys 131 : (1973) 1 Mys LJ 130] the Mysore High Court observed that the liability to deliver possession for specific performance was necessarily implied in a decree for specific performance directing the defendant to execute a sale deed on the principle of clause (f) of sub-section (1) of Section 55 of the Transfer of Property Act, according to which the liability to deliver possession arises immediately upon execution [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1309 Rohit Kochhar v. Vipul Infrastructure Developers Ltd. & Ors. of a sale deed unless by agreement the date for delivery of possession is postponed. 10. In this state of the law the legislature intervened and on the basis of the report of the Law Commission enacted Section 22 in 1963 as it stands.” (Emphasis supplied) 29. Thus, while the decision in Adcon Electronics (supra) proceeds on the understanding that a suit for specific performance of an agreement to sell is an action in personam, the decision in Babu Lal (supra) takes into account the change brought about by the introduction of Sections 22 and 28 to the Specific Relief Act, 1963 respectively which has changed the nature of the relief available under Section 22 by allowing the plaintiff to seek the relief of possession, partition, etc.