(e) If there be any exaggeration or immaterial embellishments in the evidence of an injured witness, then such contradiction, exaggeration or embellishment should be discarded from the evidence of injured, but not the whole evidence. (f) The broad substratum of the prosecution version must be taken into consideration and discrepancies which normally creep due to loss of memory with passage of time should be discarded.” 12. In the case at hand the case of abduction and attempt to murder are well established by the prosecution. All that is now left for us to determine is whether an offence under Section 364A of IPC is made out? While abduction simpliciter may not technically be an offence under the IPC, it becomes a punishable offence when it is combined with another act. For example, abduction in to commit murder is an offence under Section 364 IPC. So is abduction an offence if it is done with an intent to secretly or wrongfully confine a person (Section 365, IPC), or when it is done to compel a woman for marriage etc. (Section 366, IPC). Similarly, Section 364A is an offence where kidnapping or abduction is made and a person is put to death or hurt; or a person is threatened with death or actually murdered, on demand of ransom. Section 364A IPC was inserted in the Indian Penal Code by an Act of Parliament (Act No.42 of 1993 with effect from 22nd May, 1993). That was a period when kidnapping and abduction for the purposes of ransom were on the rise and therefore, the Law Commission of India in its 42nd Report in 1971 had recommended insertion of Section 364A in IPC, though it was ultimately incorporated in the year 1993, it reads as under: “364-A. Kidnapping for ransom, etc.—Whoever kidnaps or abducts any person or keeps a person in detention after such kidnapping or abduction, and threatens to cause death or hurt to such person, or by his conduct gives rise to a 52 [2024] 1 S.C.R. DIGITAL SUPREME COURT REPORTS reasonable apprehension that such person may be put to death or hurt, or causes hurt or death to such person in to compel the Government or [any foreign State or international inter-governmental organisation or] any other person to do or abstain from doing any act or to pay a ransom, shall be punishable with death, or imprisonment for life, and shall also be liable to fine.” This Court in the case of Vikram Singh v. Union of India (2015) 9 SCC 502 has observed as follows: “53. Applying the above to the case at hand, we find that the need to bring in Section 364-A IPC arose initially because of the increasing incidence of kidnapping and abduction for ransom. This is evident from the recommendations made by the Law Commission to which we have made reference in the earlier part of this . While those recommendations were pending with the Government, the spectre of terrorism started raising its head threatening not only the security and safety of the citizens but the very sovereignty and integrity of the country, calling for adequate measures to curb what has the potential of destabilising any country.