Hence, he proposed for cancellation of the allotments made and to take possession of the land from all the allottees including writ petitioners. The Tehsildar in turn forwarded a proposal to the District Magistrate for cancellation of the allotment vide communication dated 18.06.2007. This, resulted in show cause notices dated 05.07.2007 being issued to the writ petitioners and same was duly replied by them by filing objections on 04.10.2007. An application came to be filed by the petitioners to decide the issue of the limitation as preliminary issue, since the proceedings had been initiated after 13 years from the date of allotment contending inter alia that within a period of 3 years the proceedings ought to have been initiated. The Additional Collector by dated 07.02.2008 was of the view that action initiated being suo moto, no limitation has been provided under Section 122-C(6) of UPZALR Act; that during the consolidation proceedings the land had been specified “Panchayat Ghar” and it was covered under Section 132(6) of the UPZALR Act; the allotment of land being irregular and no time limit having been fixed for cancellation of allotment made under Section 122-C(6). Hence, he arrived at a conclusion that there is no limitation fixed under the Act and proceeded to reject the application filed. 6. Being aggrieved by the said the revision petition came to be filed before the Additional Commissioner which came to be entertained on merits and dismissed. 7. Being aggrieved by the aforesaid two (2) s, the writ petitioners challenged the same in Writ Petition No.1995 of 2010 which came to be dismissed on two grounds namely the revision petition filed was not maintainable in the teeth of Section 122-C(7); and, on the ground that impugned dated 07.02.2008 passed by the Additional Collector over-ruling the objections of the writ petitioners with regard to limitation is correct and it was meritless. Hence, this appeal. 8. As already noticed by us herein above, none have appeared on behalf of the writ petitioners. Shri Tanmaya Agarwal, learned counsel appearing for the respondent-state has vehemently contended [2024] 6 S.C.R. 291 Smt. Shyamo Devi and Others v. State of U.P. Through Secretary and Others that fraud vitiates all acts and in the instant case the revenue was empowered under the UPZALR Act to cancel the illegal and fraudulent allotment of land made in favour of the writ petitioners and as such suit had been instituted for cancellation of allotment for which no limitation has been specified under Section 122-C(6) of UPZALR Act and particularly when the land in question had been reserved as Panchayat Ghar it would be governed under Section 132 of the UPZALR Act. He would also submit that even otherwise where a bhumidhar uses the land for a purpose not connected with agriculture, horticulture or animal husbandry same would be in contravention of Section 143 and admittedly no permission had been procured for the usage of the land for residential purposes as required under Section 143. Hence, he would contend that the authorities were within their jurisdiction to initiate the proceedings for cancelling the allotment and the revenue authorities as well as the High Court had rightly refused to interfere with the impugned dated 07.02.2008 and rejected the writ petition whereunder they had sought for the suit being dismissed as barred by limitation.