9. Today, we heard both sides again. The counsel of Respondent No.2 i.e., the complainant states that there is no settlement between [2024] 5 S.C.R. 209 Raj Reddy Kallem v. The State of Haryana & Anr. the parties and the complainant is not willing to compromise the matter. After the passing of the previous dated 11.03.2024, Respondent No.2 (Complainant) has also filed an affidavit stating that no settlement has been reached between the parties as alleged by the appellant. On the other side, the counsel of the appellant contended that since the appellant has paid back the entire amount of Rs.1.55 crore and has also paid a further sum of Rs.10 lacs towards the interest, there is no ground left for continuing criminal proceedings against the appellant. 10. The significant fact here is that pending appeals before Additional Sessions Judge against the appellant’s conviction under Section 138 of the NI Act, initially both the sides had entered into a settlement in the Lok Adalat, where they agreed that if the appellant compensates the complainant by repaying the entire amount of Rs.1.55 crore then they would get the offences compounded or quashed. However, the trial court by dated 11.07.2016 declared the settlement as frustrated on the ground that the appellant could not pay the complainant on the deadlines stipulated in the said settlement and the trial court might have been right in doing so because settlement itself had a clause which read as follows: “5. That in case of default of making payment well in time according to dates mentioned above, the settlement shall be frustrated with immediate effect and then appeal shall be decided on merit.” Be that as it may, it is also true that the complainant had accepted the amount from the appellant later when the appellant approached higher courts showing his willingness to pay the amount as agreed between the parties. 11. As per section 147 of the NI Act, all offences punishable under the Negotiable Instruments Act are compoundable. However, unlike Section 320 of CrPC, the NI Act does not elaborate upon the manner in which offences should be compounded. To fill up this legislative gap, three Judges Bench of this Court in Damodar S. Prabhu v. Sayed Babalal H. (2010) 5 SCC 663, passed some guidelines under Article 142 of the Constitution of India regarding compounding of offence under Section 138 of NI Act. But most importantly, in that case, this Court discussed the importance of compounding offence 210 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports under Section 138 of the NI Act and also the legislative intent behind making the dishonour of cheque a crime by enacting a special law. This Court had observed that: “4. …………. What must be remembered is that the dishonour of a cheque can be best described as a regulatory offence that has been created to serve the public interest in ensuring the reliability of these instruments. The impact of this offence is usually confined to the private parties involved in commercial transactions.