(iv) An refusing special leave to appeal may be a non- speaking or a speaking one. In either case it does not attract the doctrine of merger. An refusing special leave to appeal does not stand substituted in place of the under challenge. All that it means is that the Court was not inclined to exercise its discretion so as to allow the appeal being filed. (v) If the refusing leave to appeal is a speaking , i.e. gives reasons for refusing the grant of leave, then the has two implications. Firstly, the statement of law contained in the is a declaration of law by the Supreme Court within the meaning of Article 141 of the Constitution. Secondly, other than the declaration of law, whatever is stated in the are the findings recorded by the Supreme Court which would bind the parties thereto and also the court, tribunal or authority in any proceedings subsequent thereto by way of judicial discipline, the Supreme Court being the apex court of the country. 1340 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports But, this does not amount to saying that the of the court, tribunal or authority below has stood merged in the of the Supreme Court rejecting special leave petition or that the of the Supreme Court is the only binding as res judicata in subsequent proceedings between the parties. (vi) Once leave to appeal has been granted and appellate jurisdiction of Supreme Court has been invoked the passed in appeal would attract the doctrine of merger; the may be of reversal, modification or merely affirmation. (vii) On an appeal having been preferred or a petition seeking leave to appeal having been converted into an appeal before Supreme Court the jurisdiction of High Court to entertain a review petition is lost thereafter as provided by sub-rule (1) of Rule (1) of 47 of the C.P.C.” [Emphasis supplied] 43. These decisions indubitably hold that if Special Leave was not granted and the petition was dismissed by a reasoned or unreasoned , the against which such Special Leave Petition is filed would not merge with the of dismissal. However, once leave has been granted in a Special Leave Petition, regardless of whether such appeal is subsequently dismissed with or without reasons, the doctrine of merger comes into play resulting in merger of the under challenge with that of the appellate forum, and only the latter would hold the field. Consequently, it is the decision of the superior court which remains effective, enforceable, and binding in the eyes of the law, whether the appeal is dismissed by a speaking or not.4 44. The High Court therefore fell in error on assuming that its previous decision dated 06.05.2002 was intact and enforceable, independent of the passed by this Court in the Civil Appeal arising therefrom. On the same analogy, the High Court’s holding that its previous decision dated 06.05.2002 would operate as res-judicata, also 4 Pernod Ricard India Private Limited v. Commissioner of Customs (2010) 8 SCC 313 [2024] 7 S.C.R.