(2) Every offence specified in sub-section (1) of section 3 shall be tried by the special Judge for the area within which it was committed, or, as the case may be, by the [2024] 1 S.C.R. 571 Nara Chandrababu Naidu v. The State of Andhra Pradesh & Anr. special Judge appointed for the case, or where there are more special Judges than one for such area, by such one of them as may be specified in this behalf by the Central Government. (3) When trying any case, a special Judge may also try any offence, other than an offence specified in section 3, with which the accused may, under the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), be charged at the same trial. (4) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), the trial of an offence shall be held, as far as practicable, on day-to-day basis and an endeavour shall be made to ensure that the said trial is concluded within a period of two years: Provided that where the trial is not concluded within the said period, the special Judge shall record the reasons for not having done so: Provided further that the said period may be extended by such further period, for reasons to be recorded in writing but not exceeding six months at a time; so, however, that the said period together with such extended period shall not exceed ordinarily four years in aggregate.” 24. Now if I accept the meaning Mr. Rohtagi wants us to give to the said expression as employed in Section 17A of the 1988 Act, the same expression i.e. “under this Act” as contained in Section 3 (1) (a) would also have to be read to mean as “the Act” prevailing at the point of time the appellant’s case is brought to the Special Judge. This would result in shrinking the jurisdiction of the Special Judge to try offences which have been repealed by the Amendment Act of 2018. I am unable to agree with Mr. Rohatgi on this point. It is an established principle of statutory interpretation that if a particular phrase is employed in different parts of an enactment, Courts ought to proceed with an understanding that the legislature intended to assign the same meaning to that expression used in different provisions thereof, unless of course, a contrary intention appears from the statute itself. Here I find no such contrary intention. 25. Now I shall examine the legality of a proceeding which is started without complying with the requirement of previous approval under 572 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Section 17A of the 1988 Act. In the case of Yashwant Sinha and Others -vs- Central Bureau of Investigation through its Director and Another [(2020) 2 SCC 338], a Bench of this Court comprising of three Hon’ble Judges, while dealing with power of review had also examined this question. The Bench was unanimous in rejecting the review plea. In a concurring one of the Hon’ble Judges, (K. M. Joseh, J.)