[Para 55] [2024] 7 S.C.R. 477 M/s Al-Can Export Pvt. Ltd. v. Prestige H.M. Polycontainers Ltd. & Ors. Maharashtra Land Revenue Code, 1966 – s. 247 – Appeal and appellate authorities – Matter pertaining to auction proceedings conducted by the Tahsildar of the subject property originally owned by the respondent No. 1 – Respondent no. 1 mortgaged its property in favour of the Bank and obtained loan – Bank assigned the debts due and payable to it in favour of the respondent no. 6 – Respondent no. 1 was in arrears of land revenue and despite issuance of demand notices failed to make the payment and as such the property owned by the respondent no. 1 put to auction under the provisions of the Land Revenue Code and the appellant was declared the successful bidder and sale certificate issued by the Additional Collector in his favour – Appeals filed by the original owner and respondent no. 6 u/s. 247 – Jurisdiction of the Additional Commissioner to decide the appeals – Plea of the appellant that the appeals before the Additional Commissioner u/s. 247 not maintainable as there was remedy available u/s. 210 of the Code: Held: Under s. 210, an application before the Collector to get the Sale set aside has to be made within a period of 30 days and it is after considering the objections the sale is to be confirmed – Remedy u/s. 210 rendered illusory as the sale was finalised by the Tahsildar much before the confirmation by the Collector – In fact, the sale certificate was issued and the possession was also handed over to the appellant – Confirmation was done by the Tahsildar much before the expiry of 30 days – There was nothing left for the Collector to consider and decide u/s. 210 of the Revenue Code – Once the sale certificate is issued, then the remedy falls u/s. 247 instead of s. 210 of the Revenue Code – Furthermore, s. 210 may be applicable in case of owner of the property but not to a lender who has valid subsisting mortgage – Respondent No. 6 does not fall within the category as provided u/s. 210(1) nor has the respondent No. 6 claimed to be the owner of the property or has an interest in the property by virtue of the “title acquired” – Assuming that the Additional Commissioner had no jurisdiction to adjudicate and decide the two appeals filed by the respondent No. 1 and respondent No. 6 respectively, yet the common passed by the Additional Commissioner allowing the appeals and remanding the matter back to the authority concerned could not have been disturbed and the High Court rightly did not disturb the same – Had the High Court taken the view that the Additional Commissioner had no jurisdiction and the passed by it was 478 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports a nullity, the result would have been the revival of the illegal passed by the Additional Collector confirming the sale – Moreso, the writ court should not quash the if it revives a wrong or illegal .