This was maybe for the reason that one evaluator checked one answer in each script and in this manner the entire lot of scripts were marked. The Evaluators failed to keep a pragmatic view that source of recruitment was likely to be the same in a fresh attempt also and that candidates had only 8.5 minutes to answer each question and time constraint did not allow them to give their best of performance. Even those candidates who covered all aspects briefly were not awarded proper marks. Unlike the hypothetical illustration given in Sanjay Singh case, it was not a case where some candidates were subjected to strict marking and others had an advantage of lenient marking, so as to draw an inference that the evaluation method was discriminatory or arbitrary.” 11. In Prashant Ramesh Chakkarwar v. UPSC,6 this Court has held that in the absence of any evidence that meritorious candidates have been deprived of their marks deliberately, the Court cannot interfere. This Court held that merely because candidates who cleared the preliminary exam did not further clear the main exam is no ground to infer fault on part of the examining authority. 12. In the present case the first question was assessed by a District Judge level officer while the second question and the third question respectively were directed to be assessed by distinct sets of English teachers working in a Government College to ensure the fairness of the process. The Petitioners have not demonstrated any marked difference in the strictness of evaluation which was undergone by the candidates who have qualified for the interview. Absent any significant variation, the process of marking itself is not suspect. The question which remains is whether lower marks were deliberately awarded in the English essay exam. 6 (2013) 12 SCC 489 [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2247 Sonal Gupta & Ors. v. Registrar General, Rajasthan High Court Jodhpur & Anr. 13. In the interest of justice and fairness, we have perused the answer sheets which have been placed for the scrutiny of the Court by officers of the High Court of Rajasthan who were present before this Court on 25 October 2024. Based on the nature of the answers in the English Essay, we have no doubt that there is no substance, even prima facie, in the allegations that there was a deliberate low marking in the English Essay paper. The records of the answer sheet were directed to be placed before this Court. The answer sheets were duly perused and remained in the safe keeping of the Secretary General of this Court. 14. Based on the tabulated position which has been disclosed before the Court, we find no statistical discrepancy that would warrant the intervention of this Court under Article 32 of the Constitution. The marking of the essay does not suffer from an infirmity that would cast doubt on the overall assessment of the English Essay answer sheets. The petitions, therefore, fail to qualify the parameters followed by this Court in a consistent line of precedent.7 Conclusion 15.