28. It is an undeniable and fundamental truth that all persons have the right to breathe clean air, drink clean water, live a life free from disease and sickness, and for those who till the earth, have access to uncontaminated soil. These rights are not only recognized as essential components of human rights but are also enshrined in various international treaties and agreements, such as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Convention on Biological Diversity, and the Paris Agreement. As such, they must be protected and upheld by governments and institutions worldwide, even as we generate employment and industry. The ultimate aim of all our endeavours is for all people to be able to live ‘the good life.’ Without these basic rights, increased revenue and employment cease to have any real meaning. It is not merely about economic growth but about ensuring the well- being and dignity of every individual. As we pursue development, we 9 This Court has previously recognized the importance of this principle including in G. Sundarrajan v. Union of India, [2013] 8 SCR 631 : (2013) 6 SCC 620 and D. Swamy v. Karnataka State Pollution Control Board, [2022] 15 SCR 547 : 2022 SCC OnLine SC 1278. 10 Werner Scholtz, ‘Equity’ in (Lavanya Rajamani and Jaqueline Peel, eds.) The Oxford Handbook of International Environmental Law (2nd edn., 2021). [2024] 2 S.C.R. 1135 Vedanta Limited v. The State of Tamil Nadu & Ors must prioritize the protection of these rights, recognizing that they are essential for sustainable progress. Only by safeguarding these fundamental rights can we truly create a world where everyone has the opportunity to thrive and prosper. 29. We have heard these proceedings for several days and after a careful evaluation of the factual and legal material, we have come to the conclusion that the Special Leave Petitions do not warrant interference under Article 136 of the Constitution. 30. For the above reasons, the Special Leave Petitions shall stand dismissed. 31. Pending applications, if any, stand disposed of. B. Civil Appeal Nos. 276-285 of 2021 32. TNPCB is aggrieved by the observations contained in the impugned of the High Court dated 18 August 2020 about its failure to exercise its regulatory functions in a timely and conscientious manner and has preferred appeals in this regard. We are of the view that the High Court was justified in making the observations in regard to the lack of alacrity on the part of the Pollution Control Board in discharging its duties. The observations of the High Court do not call to be either expunged or obliterated from the record. 33. The Civil Appeals are accordingly dismissed. 34. Pending applications, if any, stand disposed of. Headnotes prepared by: Nidhi Jain Result of the case: Special Leave Petitions and Civil Appeals dismissed.