ISSUES FOR DETERMINATION 6. The following two questions of law fall for our consideration:- a. Whether the appellant Army Welfare Education Society is a “State” within Article 12 of the Constitution of India so as to make [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2187 Army Welfare Education Society New Delhi v. Sunil Kumar Sharma & Ors. Etc. a writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution maintainable against it? In other words, whether a service dispute in the private realm involving a private educational institution and its employees can be adjudicated upon in a writ petition filed under Article 226 of the Constitution? b. Even if it is assumed that the appellant Army Welfare Education Society is a body performing public duty amenable to writ jurisdiction, whether all its decisions are subject to judicial review or only those decisions which have public law element therein can be judicially reviewed under the writ jurisdiction? C. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE APPELLANT 7. Mr. Naresh Kaushik, the learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant submitted that the respondents originally were employees of an unaided private minority public school by the name St. Gabriel’s Academy. As St. Gabriel’s Academy is no longer in existence, the teaching and non-teaching staff of St. Gabriel’s Academy came to be absorbed by the appellant society. In such circumstances, according to the learned counsel, the writ petition filed by the respondents before the High Court, by itself, was not maintainable. According to him, the learned single Judge committed a serious error in entertaining such writ petition at the instance of the respondents herein. Even the appeal Court committed the same error. 8. It was further submitted that the appellant is a wholly unaided private society which was established to provide educational facility to meet the needs of the children of the army personnel including the widows and ex-servicemen. It was pointed out that the appellant society is running many schools and institutions and the entire finance for the purpose of administration is managed from the fees collected from the students of the respective school and institution. 9. It was argued that there was no privity of contract between the appellant society and the staff of St. Gabriel’s Academy. It was also argued that St. Gabriel’s Academy was being run and administered by an unaided private minority society and the appointment/termination of the staff was vested with the Brothers of St Gabriel’s only. Further, the Provincial Superior of the Institute of Brothers of St. Gabriel’s was the Chairman of School Management Committee (SMC) of St. Gabriel’s Academy as well. The Provincial Superior of the Society is 2188 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the appointing authority, as well as the appellate authority for the staff, and can appoint/terminate/retire the staff, in their schools. Further, the Provincial Superior of the Society used to be the Head of School Managing Committee vested with the power to appoint/nominate the members as per their rules and regulations. The appellant had no role to play in the affairs of the said school or its management.