The Hon’ble mediator held multiple meetings with the parties, in their presence and through VC, and submitted a Confidential Report dated 19.07.2024, by which he reported that the parties have not been able to reach a mutually agreeable settlement. The same has been perused by this Court. Upon further interaction with the petitioner and the respondent by this Court on 10.09.2024, it was categorically stated by the respondent while appearing through VC before us that he does not intend to engage in any further discussion with the petitioner. 4.1 In light of the above facts and circumstances, this Court heard learned senior counsel for the respective parties on IA No. 149439/2023 filed by the respondent-husband under Article [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1367 Rinku Baheti v. Sandesh Sharda 142(1) of the Constitution of India, seeking a decree of divorce from the petitioner-wife on the grounds of irretrievable breakdown of marriage. Depending upon the fate of the said application, this Court shall consider the original prayer made in the transfer petition by the petitioner-wife before this Court, i.e., whether the present transfer petition ought to be allowed or not. Submissions: 5. On the averments made by the parties against each other in the captioned transfer petition, the application under Article 142(1), the application for fixation of alimony and the corresponding replies filed to those pleadings, learned counsel for the petitioner and respondent made detailed submissions at the bar. 5.1 The crux of the submissions made by the learned senior counsel Ms. Meenakshi Arora on behalf of the respondent-husband was that in light of the numerous litigations pending between the parties, including the criminal complaints filed by the petitioner that went to the extent of Look Out Circular (LOC) being issued against the respondent herein and he also being arrested and being in custody for almost a month, the relationship between the parties has fractured beyond repair. The petitioner has gone to the extent of alleging falsely not just against the respondent, but his ailing father and his son who resides in USA as well as the employees of the respondent’s company in the present dispute. It was submitted that the petitioner’s unwarranted criminal complaints and actions have made a serious dent on the reputation of the respondent which has adversely affected both his personal life as well as his business. 5.2 It was further submitted that even though the parties resided together only for a brief period of three months and the petitioner is financially equipped and educated enough to maintain herself, the respondent is not shying away from his responsibility to reasonably provide for the future of the petitioner in case of a separation but the petitioner has been making unreasonable monetary demands that cannot be accepted by the respondent. The petitioner is also said to have usurped the flat belonging to the respondent and his father, despite herself having sufficient educational qualifications, various fixed deposits, a property worth Rs.90 lakhs and rental income from that property. 1368 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 5.3 Thus, the learned counsel for the respondent contended that the cumulative impact of the ill-intended acts of the petitioner has been that the relationship between the parties has irretrievably broken down that cannot be cemented together again and therefore respondent intends to put an end to the mental, physical, emotional and financial harassment caused to him by the petitioner and consequently requests this Court to exercise its power under Article 142(1) of the Constitution and grant a decree of divorce and a reasonable permanent alimony to the petitioner.