His Lordship observed that there is no reason why this Court should not require the State to adopt a standard of proportional equality which takes account of the differing conditions and circumstances of a class of citizens. His Lordship observed that whenever differing conditions and circumstances stand in the way of a class of citizens in their equal access to the enjoyment of basic rights or claims, the State would be required to adopt a standard of proportional equality. [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1495 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. 82. He observed that no member of the forward classes or communities should complain against a compensatory measure made by the Government to ensure that the members of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes get their due share of representation in public services. 83. His Lordship observed that if reservation is necessary either at the initial stage or at the stage of promotion or at both, to ensure for the members of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes equality of opportunity, then this would be permissible under Article 16(1) as that alone would put them on a parity with the forward communities in the matter of achieving the result which equality of opportunity would produce. It is observed that the formal equality of opportunity simply enables people with more education and intelligence to capture all the posts and to win over the less fortunate in education and talent even when the competition is fair. He observed that the equality of result is the test of equality of opportunity. 84. Mathew, J. rejects the contention that Article 16(4) is an exception to Article 16(1). He states that such an interpretation does not consider the social, economic, educational background of the members of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. He held that if equality of opportunity guaranteed under Article 16(1) means effective material equality, then Article 16(4) is not an exception to Article 16(1) and that it is only an emphatic way of putting the extent to which equality of opportunity could be carried i.e., even up to the point of making reservation. 85. His Lordship observed that the State can adopt any measure which would ensure the adequate representation in public service of the members of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes and justify it as a compensatory measure to ensure equality of opportunity provided the measure does not dispense with the acquisition of the minimum basic qualification necessary for the efficiency of administration. 86. Mathew, J. further observed thus: “83. A classification is reasonable if it includes all persons who are similarly situated with respect to the purpose of the law. In other words, the classification must be founded on some reasonable ground which distinguishes persons who are grouped together and the ground of distinction must 1496 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports have rational relation to the object sought to be achieved by the rule or even the rules in question. It is a mistake to assume a priori that there can be no classification within a class, say, the lower division clerks.