29. In paragraph 7, this Court carved out 4 categories covered by Article 31-A as under: (i) acquisition by the State of an estate; (ii) acquisition by the State of rights in an estate; (iii) the extinguishment of rights in an estate; and (iv) the modification of rights in an estate. 30. Analyzing the said provision, the Constitution Bench held that, in the first two categories, the State “acquires” either an estate or rights in an estate i.e., there is a transference of an estate or the rights in an estate to the State. The Constitution Bench held that when there is a transference of an estate to the State, it could be said that all the rights of the holder of the estate have been extinguished. It further held that, if the result in the case of the extinguishment is the transference of all the rights in an estate to the State, it would properly fall within the expression “acquisition by the State of an estate”. It further held that, in the case of an acquisition by the State of a right in an estate it could also be said that the rights of the owner have been modified since one of the rights of the owner has been acquired. 31. In paragraph 8, the Constitution Bench carved out the difference between “acquisition by the State” on the one hand and “modification or extinguishment of rights” on the other. It held that in the first case, the beneficiary is the State while in the latter case the beneficiary of the modification or the extinguishment is not the State. [2024] 6 S.C.R. 917 Karnail Singh v. State of Haryana & Ors. 32. In paragraph 9, this Court recorded that in the second proviso to Article 31-A, only one category is mentioned i.e., “acquisition by the State of an estate”. It observed that the law must make a provision for the acquisition by the State of an estate. It went on to analyze the true meaning of the expression “acquisition by the State of an estate”. It was sought to be urged before this Court, that the expression “acquisition by the State” has a very wide meaning and it would bear the same meaning as was given by this Court in a catena of s. 33. In paragraph 10, this Court recorded that the second proviso to Article 31-A refers to ceiling limits. It was further observed that the proviso provides that, not only the land exempted from acquisition should be within the ceiling limit but it also must be under personal cultivation. The Court held that the underlying idea of this proviso was that a person who is cultivating land personally, which is his source of livelihood, should not be deprived of that land under any law protected by Article 31-A unless at least compensation at the market rate is given. The Court held that the words “acquisition by the State” in the second proviso cannot be given a technical meaning, as was contended on behalf of the State.