Therefore, absence of any plans mentioned in the Mining Plan to deal with the rejects would not exonerate the appellants who remained under an obligation to furnish a detailed plan for the disposal of the rejects in terms of the Allocation letter dated 10th November, 2003 issued by the MoC. 5.4 Referring to the letter dated 31st January, 2006 addressed by the MoC to the Secretary, Industries, Energy and Labour Department, State of Maharashtra, learned counsel for the respondent-CBI submitted that the appellants were aware of the fact that the rejects could not have been disposed of by KECML since the said letter had conveyed the approval of the Central Government to grant mining lease for coal in three coal blocks in favour of KECML with certain stipulations, one of which was as follows: “ii) No coal mined from the allocated blocs shall be sold, delivered, transferred of disposed of except for the aforestated captive mining purposes except with the previous approval of the Central Government” 5.5 To reinforce the above plea, reliance has also been placed on the statement of Dr. Manmohan Seam, cited as witness No. 12 who had prepared the Mining Plan in question and stated that in case of washing of coal the allocatees are required to obtain an approval from the MoC in terms of the letter of allotment and since the MoC has not allocated any coal block for washing of coal alone, the expression used in para 3 (iii) of the letter dated 10th November, 2003 written by the MoC has to be read and understood to mean ‘washing-cum-end use’. Therefore, emphasis on non-incorporation of a detailed plan for the disposal of the rejects in the original Mining Plan has no relevance and cannot offer any defence to the appellants. 1206 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 5.6 It has next been submitted that the refusing grant of sanction to prosecute Mr. Yogendra Tripathi (IAS), Managing Director, KPCL and Mr. R. Nagaraja, Director (Finance) of KPCL and nominee Director on the Board of KECML by the Sanctioning Authority and the Competent Authority is not a relevant circumstance at the stage of consideration and framing of charge and no benefit can be given to the appellants on that basis. The s passed by the Competent Authority refusing to grant sanction are sought to be described as mere administrative s. Learned counsel argued that in any event, the two officers mentioned above were public servants and the factum of the Competent Authority having refused to grant sanction to prosecute them cannot enure to the benefit of the appellants herein who are not public servants and cannot seek any parity with public servants. 5.7 Learned counsel for the respondent-CBI points out that the on Charge impugned by the appellants herein was also challenged by the accused No. 1 to 5 (functionaries of KPCL who had since retired), by filing a Petition for Special Leave to Appeal65 in this Court which was dismissed as withdrawn vide dated 09th February, 2024.