Finally, comes the ‘what’, meaning thereby the the Court may make if it thinks fit. Not much attention is generally required to be paid to components (i) and (ii), because of the overarching difficulties posed by component (iii). However, in deciding this reference, component (i) would also have a significant role apart from the Explanation inserted by way of an amendment of the CPC. 36. Let us now briefly attempt a deeper analysis of the provision. We are conscious that the provisions relating to review have been considered in a catena of decisions, but the special features of these RPs coupled with the fact that two Hon’ble Judges of this Court have delivered a split verdict make it imperative for us not to miss any significant aspect. 37. A peep into the legislative history would reveal that Rule 1 of XLVII, CPC, which is part of the First Schedule appended thereto, bears very close resemblance to its predecessor statutes, i.e., Section 623 of the Codes of Civil Procedure of 1877 and 1882. The solitary legislative change brought about in 1976 in XLVII, CPC resulted in insertion of an Explanation at the foot of Rule 1, which is at the heart of the controversy here. 38. The first and foremost condition that is required to be satisfied by a party to invoke the review jurisdiction of the court, whose or decree, as the case may be, is sought to be reviewed, is that the said party must be someone who is aggrieved by the /decree. The [2024] 5 S.C.R. 977 Govt. of NCT of Delhi Through Its Secretary, Land and Building Department & Another v. M/s K.L. Rathi Steels Limited and Others words “person aggrieved” are found in several statutes; however, the meaning thereof has to be ascertained with reference to the purpose and provisions of the statute. In one sense, the said words could correspond to the requirement of ‘locus standi’ in relation to judicial remedies. The need to ascertain the ‘locus standi’ of a review petitioner could arise, if he is not a party to the proceedings but claims the or decree to have adversely affected his interest. In terms of XLVII of the 2013 Rules read with XLVII, CPC, a petition for review at the instance of a third party to the proceedings too is maintainable, the quintessence being that he must be aggrieved by a / passed by this Court. This is what has been held in Union of India v. Nareshkumar Badrikumar Jagad.19 That is, of course, not the case here. Normally, in the context of Rule 1 of XLVII, CPC, it is that person (being a party to the proceedings) suffering an adverse and/or decree who, feeling aggrieved thereby, usually seeks a review of the /decree on any of the grounds outlined therein. The circumstances where a review would lie are spelt out in clauses (a) to (c). 39. XVLII does not end with the circumstances as section 114, CPC, the substantive provision, does. Review power under section 114 read with XLVII, CPC is available to be exercised, subject to fulfilment of the above conditions, on setting up by the review petitioner any of the following grounds: (i) discovery of new and important matter or evidence; or (ii) mistake or error apparent on the face of the record; or (iii) any other sufficient reason.