Sections 15 and 16 pertain to [2024] 11 S.C.R. 385 Anjum Kadari & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. the powers and duties of the Chairperson and Registrar of the Board, respectively, while Section 17 deals with the appointment and constitution of committees and sub-committees. 21. Section 20 stipulates the power of the Board to make regulations.17 Sub-section (1) provides this power in general terms and empowers the Board to make regulations “for carrying out the purposes of the Act”. Sub-section (2) details particular matters for which the Board may make regulations, without prejudice to the generality of its powers. This includes subjects such as inter alia the conferment of degrees, diplomas and certificates, conditions for recognition of institutions, the course of study, and the conduct of examinations. Section 21 mandates that these regulations shall be made with the prior approval of the State Government and published in the Gazette. The State Government may approve the regulations with or without modifications. Pursuant to these provisions, the Board has framed the Uttar Pradesh Non-Governmental Arabic and Persian Madarsa Recognition, Administration and Services Regulations, 2016, with the approval of the State Government.18 22. Sections 22 to 26 deal with subjects such as the requirement of a ‘scheme of administration’ for every institution; the procedure for appointment and conditions of service of heads of institutions, teachers, and other employees; casual vacancies; and the power of the Board and Committees to make by-laws, respectively. Section 27 states that no suit, prosecution or legal proceedings shall lie against the State Government, the Board or any of its committees/sub- committees in respect of anything which is done in good faith or under 17 Section 20 reads: “20. (1) The Board may make regulations for carrying out the purposes of this Act. (2) In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing powers, the Board may make regulations providing for all or any of the following matters, namely:– (a) constitution, power and duties of committees and sub-committees; (b) the conferment of Degrees, Diplomas and Certificates; (c) the conditions of recognition of institutions; (d) the courses of study to be laid down for all Degrees, Diplomas and Certificates; (e) the conditions under which candidates shall be admitted to the examinations and research programme of the Board and shall be eligible for Degrees, Diplomas and Certificates; (f) the fees for admission to the examination of the Board; (g) the conduct of examination; (h) the appointment of examiners, moderators, collators, scrutinisers, tabulators, Centre inspectors, Superintendents of Centres and invigilators and their duties and powers in relation to the Board’s examinations and the rates of their remuneration; (i) the admission of institutions to the privilege of recognition and the withdrawal of recognition; (j) all matters which are to be, or may, provided for by regulations.” 18 “2016 Regulations” 386 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the Madarsa Act and its allied rules, regulations, by-laws, s or directions. Section 28 bars the jurisdiction of Courts and states that no or decision of the Board or its committees/sub-committees shall be called into question in any court.