It applies only to ex-parte ad interim s. 978 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports VIII. Directions issued by the constitutional Courts to decide pending cases in a time-bound manner 27. The net effect of the directions issued in paragraphs 36 and 37 of Asian Resurfacing1 is that the petition in which the High Court has granted a stay of the proceedings of the trial, must be decided within a maximum period of six months. If it is not decided within six months, the interim stay will be vacated automatically, virtually making the pending case infructuous. In fact, in paragraph 37, this Court directed that the challenge to the of framing charge should be entertained in a rare case, and when the stay is granted, the case should be decided by the High Court on a day-to-day basis so that the stay does not operate for an unduly long period. 28. The Constitution Benches of this Court have considered the issue of fixing timelines for the disposal of cases in the cases of Abdul Rehman Antulay3 and P. Ramachandra Rao4. In the case of Abdul Rehman Antulay3, in paragraph 83, this Court held thus: “83. But then speedy trial or other expressions conveying the said concept — are necessarily relative in nature. One may ask — speedy means, how speedy? How long a delay is too long? We do not think it is possible to lay down any time schedules for conclusion of criminal proceedings. The nature of offence, the number of accused, the number of witnesses, the workload in the particular court, means of communication and several other circumstances have to be kept in mind. For example, take the very case in which Ranjan Dwivedi (petitioner in Writ Petition No. 268 of 1987) is the accused. 151 witnesses have been examined by the prosecution over a period of five years. Examination of some of the witnesses runs into more than 100 typed pages each. The oral evidence adduced by the prosecution so far runs into, we are told, 4000 pages. Even though, it was proposed to go on with the case five days of a week and week after week, it was not possible for various reasons viz., non-availability of the counsel, non-availability of accused, interlocutory proceedings and other systemic delays. A murder case may be a simple one involving say a dozen witnesses which can [2024] 2 S.C.R. 979 High Court Bar Association, Allahabad v. State of U.P. & Ors. be concluded in a week while another case may involve a large number of witnesses, and may take several weeks. Some offences by their very nature e.g., conspiracy cases, cases of misappropriation, embezzlement, fraud, forgery, sedition, acquisition of disproportionate assets by public servants, cases of corruption against high public servants and high public officials take longer time for investigation and trial. Then again, the workload in each court, district, region and State varies. This fact is too well known to merit illustration at our hands. In many places, requisite number of courts are not available.