So far as the clarifications/circulars issued by the Central Government and of the State Government are concerned they represent merely their understanding of the statutory provisions. They are not binding upon the court. It is for the Court to declare what the particular provision of statute says and it is not for the Executive. Looked at from another angle, a circular which is contrary to the statutory provisions has really no existence in law. (emphasis added) The aforesaid proposition of law was reiterated in Commissioner of Central Excise, Mumbai, Vs. Hindoostan Spinning and Weaving Mills Ltd. & anr (2009) 14 SCC 221. 11.9.22 In a recent in Ranadey Micronutrients & Ors. v. Collector of Central Excise (2022) 18 S.C.R. 28, it was held that while the departmental circulars in operation are binding upon the officers of the Revenue, to the extent it is contrary to the statute must be withdrawn by holding as follows: [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1587 M/s Bharti Airtel Ltd. v. The Commissioner of Central Excise, Pune “15. There can be no doubt whatsoever, in the circumstances, that the earlier and later circulars were issued by the Board under the provisions of Section 37B, and the fact that they do not so recite does not mean that they do not bind Central Excise officers or become advisory in character. There can be no doubt whatsoever that after 21st November, 1994, Excise duty could be levied upon micronutrients only under the provisions of heading 31.05 as “other fertilisers”. If the later circular is contrary to the terms of the statute, it must be withdrawn. While the later circular remains in operation the Revenue is bound by it and cannot be allowed to plead that it is not valid.” (emphasis added) 11.10 We now proceed to the next stage of consideration. Even if it is held that the mobile towers and PFBs are movable properties and “goods”, the question which still requires to be answered is whether these are “capital goods” within the meaning of Rule 2(a)(A) of the CENVAT Rules. As discussed above, every “good” is not “capital good” within the scope of the CENVAT Rules, but only such goods which come within meaning of sub-Clause (i) of Rule 2(a)(A) i.e. goods falling under Chapter 82, Chapter 84, Chapter 85, Chapter 90 Heading no. 68.2 and the sub-Heading no. 6801, 6801.1 and 6801.10 of the First Schedule to the Central Excise Tariff Act, which are used for providing output service will be considered as “capital goods” and eligible for CENVAT credit. Sub-clause (ii) of Rule 2(a)(A) provides that pollution control equipment used for providing output service can also be capital goods with which we are not concerned. 11.10.1 However, it may be noted that neither tower nor prefabricated shelter/building (PFB) finds mention under any of the Chapters/Heading specified under sub-clause (i), nor these are pollution control equipment to fall within sub-clause (ii). Hence, these items on their own cannot be said to be “capital goods” within the meaning of sub-clause (i) and (ii) of Rule 2(a)(A).