I shall now analyse the relevant provisions of the 1986 Act. 23. Section 3(1) begins with a non-obstante clause as, “notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force,” a divorced woman shall be entitled to reasonable and fair provision and maintenance and other benefits in the manner stated therein. The object and purpose of a non-obstante clause in a statute can be discussed at this stage. A non-obstante clause is usually appended to a Section in the beginning with a view to give the enacting part of the Section, in case of a conflict, an overriding effect over the provision or Act mentioned in the non-obstante clause. In other words, in spite of the provision or the Act mentioned in the non-obstante clause, the enactment following it will have its full operation or that the provisions embraced in the non-obstante clause will not be an impediment for the operation of the enactment. Thus, a non-obstante clause is a legislative device used by a Parliament or legislature [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1293 Mohd. Abdul Samad v. The State of Telangana & Anr. sometimes to give an overriding effect to what has been specified in the enacting part of a section in case of a conflict with what is contained in the non-obstante clause as stated above. Further, a non-obstante clause has to be distinguished from the expression “subject to” where the latter would convey the idea of a provision yielding place to another provision or other provisions to which it is made subject to. Also, the expression “notwithstanding anything in any other law ” in a Section of an Act has to be contrasted with the use of the expression “notwithstanding anything contained in this Act ”, which has to be construed to take away the effect of any provision of that particular Act in which the section occurs but it cannot take away the effect of any other law. [Source: Principles of Statutory Interpretation by Justice G.P. Singh, 15th Edition, Chapter 5.4, p.284] 24. Recently, a seven-judge Bench of this Court in Curative Petition (C) No.44 of 2023 in Review Petition (C) No.704 of 2021 arising out of Civil Appeal No.1599 of 2020 (In Re : Interplay between Arbitration Agreements under the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 and the Indian Stamp Act, 1899) (2023) SCC OnLine SC 1666, in paragraph 84 of the said considered the implication of a non-obstante clause in a provision with reference to Chandavarkar Sita Ratna Rao vs. Ashalata S. Guram (1986) 4 SCC 447, wherein it was observed as under: "84. xxx “67. A clause beginning with the expression “notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or in some particular provision in the Act or in some particular Act or in any law for the time being in force, or in any contract” is more often than not appended to a section in the beginning with a view to give the enacting part of the section in case of conflict an overriding effect over the provision of the act or the contract mentioned in the non obstante clause.