The cultural capital ensures that a child is trained unconsciously by the familial environment to take up higher education or high posts commensurate with their family’s standing. This works to the disadvantage of individuals who are first-generation learners and come from communities whose traditional occupations do not result in the transmission of necessary skills required to perform well in open examination. They have to put in surplus effort to compete with their peers from the forward communities. On the other hand, social networks (based on community linkages) become useful when individuals seek guidance and advice on how to prepare for examination and advance in their career even if their immediate family does not have the necessary exposure. Thus, a combination of family habitus, community linkages and inherited skills work to the advantage of individuals belonging to certain classes, which is then classified as “merit” reproducing and reaffirming social hierarchies.” (emphasis added) 88. Social capital and networks play an important role in the Indian legal setup in advancing legal careers. Most litigation chambers hire advocates through networks and community linkages. The structure of the Indian legal system is such that social capital and networks also 1540 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports play an important role in getting clients. The lack of social capital and network is acutely felt by advocates from marginalized communities.94 The marginalized sections of our society face insurmountable obstacles in navigating the Indian legal system.95 This is further compounded by their lack of representation in the legal profession. Greater representation of the marginalized communities in the legal profession will increase the diversity within the profession, enable the marginalized sections to trust the legal system and facilitate the delivery of legal aid and services to unrepresented communities. 89. Section 24(1)(f) prescribes an enrolment fee of Rupees seven hundred fifty from general candidates and Rupees one hundred twenty-five from SC and ST candidates. Therefore, the enrolment fee prescribed for candidates from the SC and ST communities is far less than the fees paid by a candidate from the general category. In 1993, Parliament increased the enrolment fee for general candidates from Rupees two-hundred fifty to Rupees seven-hundred fifty, without disturbing the fees paid by candidates from the SC and ST community. This shows that Parliament is conscious of the socio- economic marginalization of the SC and ST community. However, the present enrolment fee structure reinforces the socio-economic marginalization of the SCs and STs. For instance, the Bar Council of Maharashtra and Goa charges a cumulative fee of Rupees fifteen thousand from the general candidates and Rupees fourteen thousand five hundred from SC and ST candidates. Similarly, in Manipur, the general category candidates pay Rupees sixteen thousand six hundred fifty as an enrolment fee while a candidate from the SC and ST category pays Rupees sixteen thousand fifty. Thus, the candidates from the SC and ST category practically pay as much as the candidates from the general category. This is evidently against the legislative policy of the Advocates Act.