Constitution (Eighty-first Inserting Sub-Article (4)(B) to Article 16 Amendment) Act, 2000 providing for carry forward of vacancies. 4. Constitution Inserting proviso to Article 335 providing (Eighty-second relaxation of qualifying marks for the Amendment) Act, 2000 reserved category of persons. 5. Constitution (Eighty-Fifth Inserting the phrase “with consequential Amendment) Act, 2002 seniority” in Article 16(4)(A) providing not only accelerated promotion but consequential seniority as well to the reserved category. 6. Constitution (Ninety-Third Inserting Sub-Article (5) to Article 15 Amendment) Act, 2006 providing for mechanism of admission in Education Institution to the reserved category. 7. Constitution (One Hundred Providing for identification of backward and Second Amendment) classes by the Centre and the States by Act, 2018, and Constitution inserting Article 342A. (One Hundred and Fifth Amendment) Act, 2021 8. Constitution (One Hundred Providing for reservation of equally and Third Amendment) weaker section EWS by inserting Act, 2019 Sub-Article (6) of Article 16. 18 [2022] 14 SCR 1 : (2023) 5 SCC 1 1656 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 41. The above summary of the constitutional amendments carried out for the purposes of extending the benefit of reservation to the reserved categories would reveal that the Constitution has been amended as many as 9 times in to implement the reservation policy in a fair and impartial manner so that the so-called depressed classes may be elevated at par with the forward classes. Most of the times the amendments to the Constitution were carried out either to undo the decisions of this Court or to carry out the directions or the observations made by this Court in implementation of the reservation policy in a more fair and reasonable manner so that the benefit of reservation trickles down to the most backward of the other backward classes/ scheduled castes/scheduled tribes. CENTRAL GOVERNMENT AND STATE GOVERNMENT COMMISSIONS ON SC/ST AND OBCs 42. Apart from the above legislative exercise, the Union Government after independence, set up a Backward Class Commission in the year 1953 under the chairpersonship of Kaka Saheb Kalelkar. The Commission in its Report recommended inter alia that all women as a ‘class’ be treated as ‘backward’; all qualified students of backward classes be granted benefit of 70% seats reservation in all technical and professional Institutions; in all Government services and local bodies backward classes should be provided minimum reservation that is 25% in Class-I, 33-½% in Class-II, 40% in Class-III and 40% in Class-IV. The said Commission in its Report observed : “if entire communities, with some exceptions, are treated to be backward, actual needy would lose in the mob and they seldom attract attention towards them and get sufficient help.” 43. The Commission also observed that in certain States such as Rajasthan vagabond/restless movers/wanderers who groom and breed animals should be given special protection. The report was placed in the Parliament with an action plan but it went undebated. The Central Government at that time had spent a sum of Rs. 4.5 lakh which is equivalent to about Rs. 5 crore as of today.