The test of direct and reasonable connection between the official duty of the respondent Sub-Divisional Magistrate and the police officers concerned and the acts complained of thus fails in the present case especially because there is not even a semblance of a lawful justification forthcoming from the respondent for what he did. Entering the house of a woman, after sunset with a posse of police force, carrying video cameras conducting an unwarranted search of the house, 816 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports humiliating and invading the privacy of the complainant, insulting and humiliating R.C. Chopra by asking him to undress and dragging both of them to the police station for medical examination against their wishes, especially when male doctors were asked to examine the complainant which added insult to injury, all remain unsupported by any lawful justification and have no connection with the duties that were cast upon the respondent as a public servant, even if a complaint alleging an adulterous relationship between the appellant and R.C. Chopra had been received by the SDM. The alleged acts of the respondent cannot, therefore, be said to be in discharge of his official duties or in the purported discharge of such duties. 66. Public functionaries cannot under the cloak of purported discharge of official duties resort to harassment and humiliation of the citizens on the pretext of a complaint having been received by them, especially when the same does not disclose the commission of any offence triable by the Executive Magistrate or cognizable by the police; nor was there any other proceeding in connection with which such conduct could be justified in law. The plea of the respondent that the prosecution was barred under Section 197 CrPC has, therefore, to be rejected.” (emphasis supplied) 62. In Rajib Ranjan v. R. Vijaykumar reported in (2015) 1 SCC 513, a complaint was filed against the appellant public officials for conspiracy to create false documents. This Court had held that even while discharging official duties, if a public servant enters into a criminal conspiracy or indulges in criminal misconduct, such a misdemeanor must not be treated as an act in the discharge of his official duties in to grant protection under Section 197 CrPC and elaborated as follows: “15. The sanction, however, is necessary if the offence alleged against the public servant is committed by him “while acting or purporting to act in the discharge of his official duties”. In to find out as to whether the alleged offence is committed while acting or purporting to act in [2024] 12 S.C.R. 817 Om Prakash Yadav v. Niranjan Kumar Upadhyay & Ors. the discharge of his official duty, the following yardstick is provided by this Court in Budhikota Subbarao [State of Maharashtra v. Budhikota Subbarao (1993) 3 SCC 339 : 1993 SCC (Cri) 901 : (1993) 2 SCR 311] in the following words : (SCC p. 347, para 6) “6. … If on facts, therefore, it is prima facie found that the act or omission for which the accused was charged had reasonable connection with discharge of his duty then it must be held to be official to which applicability of Section 197 of the Code cannot be disputed.” 16.