This is so, because the decree is in the same suit and, according to Section 37 of the CPC, the expression “the court which passed a decree”, or words to that effect, in relation to the execution of decrees, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context, would include: (a) the court of first instance even though the decree to be executed has been passed in the exercise of appellate jurisdiction; and (b) where the court of first instance has ceased to exist, or to have jurisdiction to execute it, the Court which, if the suit wherein 7 [1999] 1 SCR 349 : (1999) 4 SCC 702 [2024] 9 S.C.R. 11 Ishwar (Since Deceased) Thr. Lrs & Ors. v. Bhim Singh & Anr. the decree was passed was instituted at the time of making the application for the execution of the decree, would have jurisdiction to try such suit. Thus, an application under Section 28 of the 1963 Act, either for recission of contract or for extension of time, can be entertained and decided by the Execution Court provided it is the Court which passed the decree in terms of Section 37 of the CPC. 19. In the instant case, the Court of first instance (i.e., where the civil suit was instituted) was the Court of Additional Civil Judge (Senior Division), Kaithal, as would appear from the decree-sheet placed on record as Annexure P-1. The execution application was also filed before the Court of Additional Civil Judge (Senior Division), Kaithal, as would appear from Annexure P-2. Paragraph No.1 of the impugned indicates that the dated 03.11.2016 by which the application under Section 28 was disposed of was passed by the Court of Civil Judge (Senior Division), Kaithal. Thus, by virtue of Section 37 of the CPC, the Execution Court being the Court of first instance with reference to the suit in which the decree was passed had jurisdiction to deal with the application under Section 28 of the 1963 Act. We, therefore, reject the objection as regards jurisdiction of the Execution Court to deal with the application for extension of time / rescission of the contract under Section 28 (1) of the 1963 Act. Issue (i) is decided in the aforesaid terms. B. Execution Court ought to have decided the Application under Section 28 of the 1963 Act as an application in the Suit 20. The next question which falls for our consideration is whether the application under Section 28 of the 1963 Act ought to have been dealt with as an application on the original side (i.e., as an application in the suit) or on the execution side (i.e., as an application in the execution proceedings). This issue is no longer res integra as it has been answered by this Court in Ramankutty Guptan (Supra) in the following terms: “9. The question then emerges is whether it should be on the original side or execution side. Section indicates that it should be “in the same suit”. It would obviously mean in the suit itself and not in the execution proceedings.