The GPA was prepared only on a stamp paper worth Rs.100, rendering it insufficiently stamped and in accordance with section 34 of the 1957 Act, 7 O.S. No. 301 of 2003 8 O.S. No. 134 of 2005 9 I.A.s, hereafter 10 1957 Act, hereafter [2024] 7 S.C.R. 321 G.M. Shahul Hameed v. Jayanthi R. Hegde an insufficiently stamped document had to be impounded and a penalty of ten times the duty value paid. g. The respondent objected to the I.A.s asserting that the appellant had to avail his remedy under section 58 of the 1957 Act and that being available, the appellant could not seek a review. Further, it was claimed that no proof had been furnished that the appellant’s counsel was otherwise engaged at that time. Lastly, it was contended that once a document had been admitted in evidence, the stamp duty could not subsequently be questioned on the ground that it has been insufficiently stamped, as per section 35 of the 1957 Act. 4. Vide dated 19th October, 2010, the Trial Court allowed the I.A.s and directed the respondent to pay the deficit stamp duty, along with the penalty, as required for a power of attorney under article 41(eb) of the Schedule to the 1957 Act. 5. Dissatisfied with the aforesaid of the Trial Court, the respondent approached the High Court whereupon the petition was allowed by the impugned , inter alia, recording that: “2. It is evident from the material that the document has been marked and admitted in evidence and exhibited. It is the contention of the respondent under 13 rule 4 there should be a specific statement to the effect that the document has been so admitted and endorsement shall be signed and initialed by the Judge. In the absence of the said requirement, marking of document does not mean admission of document in evidence. The argument of the counsel for the respondent is untenable. In the normal procedure when the document is produced, it is marked and exhibit number has assigned and beneath the said exhibit Judge puts his initial. This procedure fully complies with the requirement under 13 Rule 4 of the Act. Therefore, the contention that the document has not been properly marked and it should be rejected in evidence on the ground of insufficiently stamped is untenable. The trial court will have no jurisdiction to reconsider the issue. The remedy available for the respondent is only under section 58 of the Stamp Act. Accordingly, the writ petition is allowed.” 322 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 6. It is the legality of the impugned that we are tasked to examine while answering the question formulated at the beginning of this . 7. Mr. Chaturvedi, learned counsel for the appellant, while laying a challenge to the impugned argued that admission of an insufficiently stamped instrument in a casual manner by mechanically marking it as an exhibit, without any application of judicial mind, should not preclude the court seized of the proceedings from reconsidering whether such document is sufficiently stamped and could have at all been admitted in evidence.