39. In my view, the controversy in these writ petitions converges upon a foundational aspect, which is, the extent of implementation of the recommendations of the TEC constituted by this Court. Only upon considering this foundational aspect can I proceed to determine the points for consideration. I cannot ignore the TEC Report as suggested by learned Attorney General, for it would result in undermining the earlier s of this Court, which would be an improper approach in the matter. 39.1 The subject matter of this case is indeed technical, as it involves scrutinising the adoption of a technology that would enable the modification of genomes through the insertion of foreign genes. The aim of the modification is often to craft hybrid varieties that have certain desirable characteristics from the point of view of agricultural productivity, sustainability and resilience. 40. At the outset, learned Attorney General submitted that the TEC Report submitted to this Court goes beyond the terms of reference to the extent of observing that HT crops are completely unsuitable in the Indian context which is not just and proper. Dr. Paroda, also a member of TEC, has filed a separate report raising objections to the TEC report submitted by the majority of the members which could be considered by this Court. 40.1 In the backdrop of identifying the actual controversy in these matters, at the outset, the terms of reference of TEC, inter alia, could be revisited as follows: (i) to review and recommend the nature of sequencing of risk assessment (environment and health safety) vis-à-vis all GM crops before they are released into the environment; (ii) to recommend the point at which environmental release through open-field trials can be permitted; (iii) to advise whether GE crops or plants could be replicated under different agro-ecological regions and different seasons as compared to greenhouse conditions; 2094 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (iv) to advise measures or safeguards required to prevent potential risks to the environment vis-à-vis open-field trials and to recommend protocols necessary to preclude any escaped material from causing an adverse effect on the environment; (v) to advise whether in India, there are state-of-the-art testing facilities and professional expertise available to conduct various biosafety tests and if not, recommend setting up an independent testing laboratory and institutions. 40.2 An interim report, and thereafter, a final report were submitted by the TEC. As already noted, the final report was in two parts: the first part of the report was by a majority of five members of the TEC and a separate note was submitted by Dr. R.S. Paroda. Since the views of the majority and the separate note have been recorded hereinabove, I would only discuss whether the TEC did indeed breach the terms of reference. 40.3 A perusal of the terms of the reference reveals an emphasis on four aspects: sequencing; scientific tenability; adequacy of regulatory conditions and availability of technological facilities. The direction of this Court regarding the interim report was specifically to seek recommendations on the desirability of a partial or complete ban on open-field tests and what biosafety protocol ought to be followed and under what conditions.