Such as where high officials of State authorities are involved, or the accusation itself is against the top officials of the investigating agency thereby allowing them to influence the investigation, and 12 2022 SCC OnLine SC 884 13 (2013) 12 SCC 480 [2024] 1 S.C.R. 195 VISHAL TIWARI v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS further that it is so necessary to do justice and to instil confidence in the investigation or where the investigation is prima facie found to be tainted/biased.” 50. The Court reiterated that an investigation may be transferred to the CBI only in “rare and exceptional cases”. One factor that courts may consider is that such transfer is “imperative” to retain “public confidence in the impartial working of the State agencies.” This observation must be read with the observations made by the Constitution Bench in the case of Committee for Protection of Democratic Rights, West Bengal (supra), that mere allegations against the police do not constitute a sufficient basis to transfer the investigation. … 52. It has been held by this Court in CBI v. Rajesh Gandhi, 1997 Cri LJ 63, that no one can insist that an offence be investigated by a particular agency. We fully agree with the view in the aforesaid decision. An aggrieved person can only claim that the offence he alleges be investigated properly, but he has no right to claim that it be investigated by any particular agency of his choice. 53. The principle of law that emerges from the precedents of this Court is that the power to transfer an investigation must be used “sparingly” and only “in exceptional circumstances”. In assessing the plea urged by the petitioner that the investigation must be transferred to the CBI, we are guided by the parameters laid down by this Court for the exercise of that extraordinary power.” (emphasis supplied) 34. Given the above position of law, the question that arises before the Court is whether, in the facts of the present case, the transfer of investigation from SEBI to another agency is warranted. ii. SEBI has prime facie conducted a comprehensive investigation 35. As noted above, out of the twenty-four investigations carried out by SEBI, twenty-two are concluded. Twenty-two final investigation 196 [2024] 1 S.C.R. DIGITAL SUPREME COURT REPORTS reports and one interim investigation report have been approved by the competent authority under SEBI’s procedures. With respect to the interim investigation reports SEBI has submitted that it has sought information from external agencies/entities and upon receipt of such information will determine the future course of action. 36. Further, in its status report, SEBI has provided the current status of each of the investigations conducted by it and the reasons for interim findings in two of the investigations. SEBI has also provided details such as the number of emails issued, summons for personal appearance, pages of documents examined, statements recorded on oath, etc. for each investigation. An overview of twenty-four investigations conducted by SEBI is as follows: Sr. Issues No. of No. Investigations 1 Minimum Public Shareholding- alleged violation of Rule 19A 1 of Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957 2 Alleged manipulation of stock prices in contravention of 2 existing laws 3 Alleged related Party Transactions (RPT)-Failure to disclose 13 transactions with Related Parties and other relevant information 4 Other Issues: (A) Possible violation of SEBI (Foreign Portfolio Investors) 1 Regulations, 2014 and 2019 (B) Possible violation of SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of 1 Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011 (C) Trading-Pre-post Hindenburg Report 1 (D) Possible violation of SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) 5 Regulations, 2015 Total 24 SEBI’s status report and the details of the twenty-four investigations does not indicate inaction by SEBI.