As per one perspective, countries that wish to grant citizenship to immigrants who do not have familial links in the country choose the jus soli model.15 However, from another perspective, the choice of mode is often based on the significance of ethnicity for the citizen’s identity resulting in adoption of a jus sanguinis model. Hence, if a nation emphasizes ethnic continuity through descent and lineage, it tends to choose the jus sanguinis model over the jus soli model. However, where the cultural identity is tied to the territory of the nation, the jus soli model is preferred.16 Beyond these considerations, citizenship models can also be justified on the basis of inter-state relations (by which citizenship is granted based on historical links or treaties between nations),17 or on economic considerations (which are instantiated by countries that allow citizenship by investment).18 15. While providing an exhaustive account of all academic perspectives is neither feasible nor necessary for the current discussion, it is evident that various policy reasons inform the selection of one citizenship pattern over another. There is no single policy that universally dictates the framing of citizenship laws; rather, diverse considerations, including historical, cultural, economic, and political factors, influence the formulation of citizenship regimes.19 Even 14 KAnGni KpoDAr, Citizenship and Growth, IMF eLibrary, https://www.elibrary.imf.org/view/ journals/022/0056/001/article-A014-en.xml. 15 Id. 16 JAmes Brown sCott, Nationality: Jus Soli or Jus Sanguinis, American Journal of International Law, 1930, 24(1), 60. 17 This is particularly demonstrated by European states like the United Kingdom as discussed earlier, which, due to its historical ties extends citizenship to some individuals from Commonwealth countries. 18 Acquisition of citizenship - AġenzijA komunità mAltA, https://komunita.gov.mt/en/services/acquisition-of- citizenship/. 19 DAviD FitzGerAlD, Nationality and Migration in Modern Mexico, Journal of Ethnic and Migration Studies, 2005, 31(1), 172. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1007 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 though a uniform citizenship policy across the world could eliminate statelessness and multiple citizenships, the varying basis of granting citizenship is unavoidable because each country has its own unique policy considerations and political milieu. Since there is no single universally suitable model, no mode of granting citizenship can be called an aberration or an anomaly. Citizenship is purely a creation of law, which, in turn, is an instrument of policy based on different prevailing circumstances of each country. While some nations insist on connections in terms of descent and territory, some even grant citizenship for purely economic reasons.20 16. Further, since the policy reasons underlying a citizenship regime are bound to remain in flux, constitutions around the globe are wary of setting citizenship norms in stone. For instance, a country’s demographic pattern might change, it might want to effect inter-state arrangements, it might be engaged in a war, there could be international treaties granting rights to certain classes of people, etc. Therefore, rather than imposing rigid norms on citizenship, it is desirable for constitutions to grant the government the flexibility to determine laws regarding membership in the country’s community. For this, either the constitutions such as the Australian Constitution, remain silent on the conditions of acquiring citizenship, or they prescribe the overarching norms for the time being and give the power to make and change specific conditions to the Parliament.21 Citizenship under the Constitution of India 17.