56. Article 15(4) is an enabling provision which enables the State to make special provision for the advancement of any socially and educationally backward classes of citizens or for the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, and Clause (5) thereof enables the State to make special provisions for them in respect of the admission to educational institutions. Similarly, Article 16(4) enables the State to make any provision for the reservation of appointments or posts in favour of any backward class of citizens which in the opinion of the State is not adequately represented in the services under the State. These provisions under Article 15 and 16 are merely enabling provisions, and could not be treated as the source of power to legislate 1630 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the law for sub-dividing or reclassifying/sub-classifying or regrouping the castes, races or tribes enumerated as the “Scheduled Castes”, which have acquired special status by virtue of Article 341 of the Constitution. 57. Under the guise of providing reservation or under the pretext of taking affirmative action for the weaker of the weakest sections of the society, the State cannot vary the Presidential List and tinker with Article 341. Such power if exercised by the State in absence of any executive or legislative power would be colourable exercise of powers. It hardly needs to be reiterated that the idea conveyed by the ‘doctrine of colourable legislation’ is that although apparently a legislature in passing a statute, purports to act within the limits of its powers, yet in substance and in reality, it transgressesits powers, the transgression being veiled by what appears, on proper examination, to be a mere pretence or disguise. As well-settled, the whole doctrine of “colourable exercise” is based on the maxim - “you cannot do indirectly what you cannot do directly.”* Any action of the State in the name of affirmative action, if not permitted by the Constitution, could not be validated or vindicated by the Courts by moulding or tinkering with the specific provisions of the Constitution. (III) WHETHER E.V. CHINNAIAH IS REQUIRED TO BE REVISITED IN VIEW OF CERTAIN OBSERVATIONS MADE IN INDRA SAWHNEY CONCERNING “OTHER BACKWARD CLASSES”? 58. Much reliance has been placed by the Five-Judge Bench in Davinder Singh for making reference to this Bench, on the decision of Indra Sawhney for opining that the view taken in E.V. Chinnaiah was not in consonance with Indra Sawhney however, in my opinion, Indra Sawhney had not dealt with the issue of sub-classification of the “Scheduled Castes” much less had dealt with the State’s power to sub-classify or sub-divide or re-group the Castes specified as “Scheduled Castes” under Article 341 of the Constitution. 59. So far as Indra Sawhney is concerned, the factual matrix was that the Government of India under Article 340 of the Constitution had constituted the “Second Backward Classes Commission” on January 1, 1979 under the Chairmanship of Shri B. P. Mandal (known as the Mandal Commission). The terms of the reference * K.C.