Also, laying down as a matter of principle that subsequent events could be considered while hearing a review petition, is unprecedented. The Court in Netaji Cricket Club (supra) and Jagmohan Singh (supra) read something in the statute which apart from being unnecessary, is seen to run contrary to the terms of XLVII, CPC as expounded in A.C. Estates (supra) (decision of a Bench of three Hon’ble Judges) and Raja Shatrunji (supra). To save Netaji Cricket Club (supra) and Jagmohan Singh (supra) from being declared as decisions rendered per incuriam, we prefer to hold, as the Hon’ble companion Judge on the said Division Bench did, that such decisions turned on the very special facts and circumstances of the cases and cannot guide us in the present endeavor. 103. Ms. Bhati put forth the dissent authored by Hon’ble Dr. D.Y. Chandrachud, J. (as the Chief Justice then was) in Beghar Foundation (supra) to argue that the Explanation could not be a bar to the maintainability of the RPs in the present case. However, when a view is expressed by a member-Judge of a Constitution Bench which turns out to be the minority view, judicial discipline demands that a Bench of lesser strength does not accept the minority view in preference to the majority view. In any event, on a closer reading of the dissent itself, more particularly paragraph 18, it is revealed that the RPs had already been filed and were pending on the date when reference was made to a larger Bench for which His Lordship [2024] 5 S.C.R. 1001 Govt. of NCT of Delhi Through Its Secretary, Land and Building Department & Another v. M/s K.L. Rathi Steels Limited and Others did not consider it necessary even to consider the Explanation. The issue before us, as held earlier, cannot be resolved without looking at the Explanation and, thus, the contention advanced by Ms. Bhati is rejected. 104. We, thus, hold that no review is available upon a change or reversal of a proposition of law by a superior court or by a larger Bench of this Court overruling its earlier exposition of law whereon the / under review was based. We also hold that notwithstanding the fact that Pune Municipal Corporation (supra) has since been wiped out of existence, the said decision being the law of the land when the Civil Appeals/Special Leave Petitions were finally decided, the subsequent overruling of such decision and even its recall, for that matter, would not afford a ground for review within the parameters of XLVII of the CPC. 105. Question (d) is, therefore, answered in the negative. 106. Let us now turn to question (a), which incidentally arises, and answer it. 107. Reverting to the facts, these cases would not call for ascertainment of the ‘locus standi’ of the review petitioners, since they were parties to the proceedings from which the RPs have arisen. However, in the context of a review, a distinction can yet be drawn between a person who, not being a party to the original proceedings, has the ‘locus standi’ to invoke the review jurisdiction and a person who, despite being a party to the proceedings, can be considered as not aggrieved by the / of which he seeks a review.