vii. The Respondents maintained that Article 21 protects the Assamese community and the rights of foreigners affected by Section 6A. They argued that the provision is not violative of Article 21 as it is a lawfully established procedure. viii. Dismissing claims of cultural change, the Respondents argued that demographic shifts attributed to Section 6A are unrelated, emphasizing Article 29(1)’s endeavour to promote multiculturalism rather than cultural exclusivity. They also strived to underscore that accepting the Petitioner’s arguments would lead to cultural exclusivity, which is not constitutionally permissible. ix. Regarding the right to vote, the Respondents countered the Petitioners, stating that Section 6A confers citizenship upon the immigrants. Therefore, citizenship rights, including voting, would naturally flow. x. They further distinguished the decision of Sarbananda Sonowal v. Union of India,35 asserting that its ratio was based on classification under Article 14, and not Article 355. They contended that fulfilling the duty under Article 355 justified enacting Section 6A to address ‘internal disturbance’. xi. The Respondents lastly argued for harmonizing domestic law with international norms, asserting that the prohibition of statelessness is a recognized international norm and rendering Section 6A unconstitutional would risk statelessness for the immigrants, justifying the provision’s validity. 35 Sarbananda Sonowal v. Union of India (2005) 5 SCC 665 1036 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports D. ISSUES 34. Although the reference to this Court is simple, being one of the factors in determining the constitutional validity of Section 6A of the Citizenship Act, this issue can be broken down into several constituent questions for this Court’s determination. I. Prefatory issues a. Does the power of judicial review extend to analysing the constitutionality of Section 6A? b. Whether the present petitions are barred by delay and laches? II. Challenges regarding constitutionality c. Does Section 6A offend preambular values like fraternity? d. Is Section 6A ultra vires Part II of the Constitution? e. Does Section 6A create an unreasonable classification which violates Article 14? f. Does Section 6A suffer from manifest arbitrariness? g. Does Section 6A violate the rights provided to ‘indigenous’ communities under Article 29? h. Is Section 6A ultra vires Article 21 of the Constitution? i. Does Section 6A violate the political rights of Indian citizens in Assam under Article 326? j. Does the operation of Section 6A cause ‘external aggression’ and ‘internal disturbance’, culminating in the invocation of Article 355? k. Does the Citizenship Act conflict with provisions of the Immigrants (Expulsion from Assam Act), 1950? If so, how can the two legislations be harmoniously interpreted? l. Does Section 6A violate international laws? E. ANALYSIS 35. Before examining the contentions of the parties on the merits of the core issue challenging the constitutional validity of Section 6A, it is incumbent first to address the prefatory issues arising from the Respondents’ contentions on the maintainability of the present petition. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1037 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 Prefatory challengeS i. Judicial review 36. At the very outset, the Respondents asserted that this Court should refrain from delving further into the matter, as the petition raises issues hovering around foreign policy, a domain traditionally excluded from the purview of substantive judicial review.