In view of 1872 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports the facts noted above, this Court directs the State of Rajasthan to complete the survey and notification of sacred groves/Orans in all districts. The Forest Department must carry out detailed on-ground mapping of the identified groves and classify them as ‘forests,’ as recommended in the Central Empowered Committee’s report dated 01.06.2005. Additionally, all three recommendations outlined in the report must be implemented in their entirety and in true spirit. This classification should not depend on the size or extent of the groves but instead, focus solely on their purpose and their cultural and ecological significance to the local community. 55. Further, given the ecological and cultural importance of sacred groves, it is recommended that they be granted protection under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, specifically through Section 36-C, which allows for the declaration of ‘community reserves.’ This would legally protect these areas, recognizing their role in biodiversity conservation and cultural practices. Sacred groves/Orans should be identified and, where appropriate, declared as community reserves to ensure their preservation and prevent unauthorized land use changes. State Government, in collaboration with local communities, should initiate this process to safeguard both their ecological and cultural value. 56. In to ensure compliance of the aforementioned directions, the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change of India (MoEFCC) in collaboration with the Forest Department, Government of Rajasthan shall constitute a 5-member Committee preferably headed by a retired Judge of the Rajasthan High Court. 57. The Committee shall include one Domain Expert, preferably a retired Chief Conservator of Forests, a Senior Officer from the MoEFCC, Government of India and one Senior Officer each from the Forest Department and Revenue Department, Government of Rajasthan. The terms and conditions of the Committee shall be jointly finalized by the Union of India and the State of Rajasthan. VIII. SUGGESTIONS 58. This Court deems it necessary to propose certain suggestions to promote the sustainable conservation of sacred groves and empower the communities associated with their protection. [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1873 In Re: T.N. Godavarman Thirumulpad v. Union of India & Ors. (i) Section 3(1)(j) of the Forest Rights Act, recognizes the rights of tribal communities under State laws, Autonomous District or Regional Council laws, and their traditional or customary laws. This provision ensures respect for the diverse legal and cultural practices of tribal communities across India. The Rajasthan Government should identify traditional communities that have historically protected sacred groves and designate these areas as ‘Community Forest resource’ under Section 2(a) of the Forest Rights Act. These communities have shown a strong cultural and ecological commitment to conservation, and their role as custodians should be formally recognized. As per Section 5 of the Forest Rights Act, they should also be empowered, along with Gram Sabhas and local institutions, to continue protecting wildlife, biodiversity, and natural resources. Granting them the authority to regulate access and prevent harmful activities would preserve their legacy of stewardship and promote sustainable conservation for future generations. (ii) Models like Piplantri village demonstrate how community- driven initiatives can effectively address social, economic, and environmental challenges in a cohesive manner.