We have perused the impugned of the High Court. What the 1 [2004] Supp. 6 SCR 460 : (2005) 1 SCC 568 134 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports High Court lost sight of was that it was a substantive petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of India for quashing the complaint on the ground that the continuation of the same was an abuse of the process of law. A prayer was made in the petition for quashing the passed by the learned Judicial Magistrate, by which the application for discharge, made by the appellants, was rejected. In the earlier criminal revision application, the High Court had confirmed the dismissing the application for discharge. The criminal revision application was rejected on the ground that the documents relied upon by the appellants regarding the settlement in the suit with the second respondent and disposal of the suit could not be considered while considering the prayer for discharge. While passing the impugned , the High Court relied upon Section 362 of the Cr.PC, which reads thus: “362. Court not to alter .— Save as otherwise provided by this Code or by any other law for the time being in force, no Court, when it has signed its or final disposing of a case, shall alter or review the same except to correct a clerical or arithmetical error.” The second prayer in the writ petition could have been hit by Section 362 of the Cr.PC, as the prayer was to quash the on the application for discharge. But the first prayer was for quashing the complaint itself. Therefore, dismissing the first prayer in the writ petition on the ground of the bar of Section 362 of the Cr.PC was erroneous. 16. We have already quoted what the second respondent stated in the application dated 11th November 2008. He categorically stated that in view of the out-of-court settlement with the appellants, he would not lay any claim in any manner whatsoever over the suit properties. The second respondent never disputed the correctness of what is stated in the said application, and the passed permitting the withdrawal of the suit. The second respondent did not challenge the permitting withdrawal by filing any proceedings. When the second respondent stated that he would not lay any claim in any manner whatsoever over the suit properties, he gave up his claim under the agreements dated 29th January 2001. The primary grievance in the first complaint was that notwithstanding the said agreements, the appellants tried to transfer the properties to the co-accused and [2024] 7 S.C.R. 135 Sardar Ravi Inder Singh & Anr. v. State of Jharkhand & Anr. created a false application for withdrawal of the suit dated 8th May 2007, which was, in fact, the creation of Uma Shankar, brother of the second respondent. 17. As the second respondent had given up his rights under the agreements, it is crystal clear that continuing the complaint would be nothing but an abuse of the process of law.