In the night when the rain was started I came down from the roof and I saw the accused Sukhpal along with his wife Usha going into inside their room. Both of them went inside their room. Next morning due to holiday (closeday being Sunday) I woke up some late and started my daily routine work. I found the cycle of Sukhpal parked in the court-yard of his house. I thought that both of them might be in their room. In the noon I again found the cycle of Sukhpal parked in the court-yard of the house but none of them was seen outside their room. In the evening at about 5.30 P.M. when I called them but no response came from his house but the door of the room was opened. When I entered the room of Usha I found Smt. Usha dead lying on the cot and accused Sukhpal was found missing therefrom. I informed the nearby residents who called the police. Accused Sukhpal had run away from his house after committing the murder of his wife Usha in the night. Police came there and completed the proceedings. I save my statement to the police and I signed my statement which is Ex.PW-1/A and is correct. Other mohalla people also collected there. There were many injuries on the throat and shoulder, neck of Smt. Usha. There was blood on the bed sheet on which medicines were found scattered and letter written [2024] 6 S.C.R. 331 Sukhpal Singh v. NCT of Delhi in Hindi by accused Sukhpal regarding the murder of his wife Usha was also found under the cot. I identify the hand-writing of Sukhpal on that letter, because he was working with me at the aforesaid medicine shop where we used to prepare and write the documents. I have seen him signing and writing the documents at the above said shop with me. Police seized that letter vide a memo Ex.PW1/B and I signed the same. One old cycle make Avon of accused Sukhpal was seized vide a memo which is Ex.PW1/D. I signed the same. I had seen the accused using that cycle earlier also and so I identify this case to be of accused Sukhpal. Surinder Kumar who was also present there also signed the memo. On 22.5.1990 I was present on my duty at the shop of M/s R.P. Associates, 1696/8 Ist floor Mohan Building Bhagirath Place where accused Sukhpal also used to work. On that day police officials visited the shop where Sanjiv Kumar, owner of the above said shop reduced two letters to the police. One letter was an application for resignation from the service written by Sukhpal to M/s R.P. Associates and another letter at 12.6.89 addressed to R.P. Associates requesting for service to him. Both these letters were written and signed by accused Sukhpal. I identify his writing and signature on it. These letters are Ext.PW/E and Ex.PW/F. These letters were seized vide memo Ex.PW1/G and I signed it. The letter addressed to the police officer written by Sukhpal which was seized from the spot by the police is Ex.P1.