The learned senior counsel for both the parties vehemently disagreed on the amount of interim maintenance that ought to be paid to the appellant by the respondent. But they appear to be in agreement of the strained relationship between the parties which is stated by both parties to be beyond the scope of reconciliation. 11. This Court also heard the parties in camera to discuss the possibility of a reunion but during the course of the proceedings both parties stated that they are willing to have their marriage annulled by mutual consent as there remains no possibility of the parties reuniting and the marriage now only exists on paper. 12. We have heard the learned senior counsel for the respective parties at length. 13. At the outset it is relevant to be noted and does not seem to be in dispute that differences arose between the parties within the first year of marriage itself and the appellant-wife and respondent- husband have been living separately since the last nine years. It also appears from the record that the parties were referred to mediation at several stages by different courts and all efforts for reconciliation and to continue the marriage have failed, and there is no possibility of a reunion between the parties. Thus, it appears that the marriage between the parties has irretrievably broken down. 14. It is also apparent from the record that complaint for cruelty, hurt, and dowry demand against the respondent was registered by the appellant within the first 11 months of their marriage followed by an application seeking protection under section 12 of PWDV Act filed [2024] 7 S.C.R. 949 Kiran Jyot Maini v. Anish Pramod Patel by the appellant. An application seeking interim maintenance was filed by the appellant under section 31(1) of the PWDV Act. Shortly thereafter, the respondent filed a petition under section17(1)(d) of the Special Marriage Act, 1954, seeking dissolution of marriage on grounds of cruelty. All these proceedings have since been pending and several challenges have been made by both parties in the of interim maintenance as granted by the Judicial Magistrate and subsequently modified by the Additional Sessions Judge. 15. The above admitted facts of long-standing separation between the parties, prolonged and multiple litigations pending adjudication, and several failed attempts at reconciliation are evidence of the fact that the marriage between the parties has completely broken down. 16. In Hitesh Bhatnagar v. Deepa Bhatnagar,5 this Court observed that a marriage can be dissolved by the courts on the grounds of irretrievable breakdown of marriage only when it appears that it has become impossible to save the marriage, all efforts for reunion have failed and the Court is convinced beyond any reasonable doubt that there are no chances of the marriage surviving and succeeding. 17. Further, this Court had observed in Ashok Hurra v. Rupa Bipin Zaveri,6 that upon considering the cumulative effect of all necessary factors and that the marriage has perished due to long standing differences between the parties, and thus no useful purpose, emotional or practical, would be achieved by prolonging the suffering of the parties and in postponing the inevitable end to their relationship, the Court can pass an for dissolution of marriage.