Doing so would perpetuate the injustice suffered by the debtor. 27. It has been argued that the execution sale cannot be set aside at this stage when the debtor has not paid any amount to satisfy the original decree or the modified decree nor he has challenged the legality of the auction sale on any permissible ground as contemplated in XXI CPC. However, we are not convinced with this submission made on behalf of the learned counsel for the respondents for the reason that we are not per se setting aside the execution sale as if the present is the proceedings challenging the execution of the decree by way of sale of the attached immovable properties of the debtor. We are concerned herewith and we have confined ourselves to the core issue as to whether the present is a fit and suitable case for exercising power under Section 144 CPC directing restitution in favour of the debtor by placing the parties in the position which they would have occupied before such execution and for this purpose the Court may make any , as provided under Section 144 CPC. It is in exercise of this power that we have considered the aspect of execution of the decree by attachment of whole property when part of the property could have satisfied the decree. This examination was necessary to ascertain the extent of injury the debtor has suffered at the time of execution of the original decree for Rs. 27,694/- opposite to 652 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the modified decree for Rs. 17,120/-. The execution of a decree by sale of the entire immovable property of the debtor is not to penalise him but the same is provided to grant relief to the decree holder and to confer him the fruits of litigation. However, the right of a decree holder should never be construed to have bestowed upon him a bonanza only because he had obtained a decree for realisation of a certain amount. A decree for realisation of a sum in favour of the plaintiff should not amount to exploitation of the debtor by selling his entire property. 28. For the foregoing, the appeal is allowed. The dated 05.06.2017 passed by the High Court is set aside and the appellants’ application under Section 144 CPC is allowed and the sale of the attached properties belonging to the debtor is set aside and the parties are restored back to the position where the execution was positioned before the attachment of the immovable properties of the debtor. The execution of the modified decree, if not already satisfied, shall proceed in accordance with law. Result of the case: Appeal allowed. †Headnotes prepared by: Divya Pandey