Until such burden is discharged, the other party is not required to be called upon to prove his case. The court has to examine as to whether the person upon whom burden lies has been able to discharge his burden. Further, things which are admitted need not be proved. Whether the burden of proof has been discharged by a party to the lis or not would depend upon the facts and circumstances of the case. The party on whom the burden lies has to stand on his own and he cannot take advantage of the weakness or omissions of the opposite party. Thus, the burden of proving a claim or defence is on the party who asserts it. 42. Section 102 of the Evidence Act, 1872 provides a test regarding on whom the burden of proof would lie, namely, that the burden lies on the person who would fail if no evidence were given on either side. Whenever the law places a burden of proof upon a party, a presumption operates against it. Hence, burden of proof and presumptions have to be considered together. There are however exceptions to the general rule as to the burden of proof as enunciated in Sections 101 and 102 of the Evidence Act, 1872, i.e., in the context of the burden of adducing evidence: (i) when a rebuttable presumption of law exists in favour of a party, the onus is on the other side to rebut it; (ii) when any fact is especially within the knowledge of any person, the burden of proving it is on him (Section 106). In some cases, the burden of proof is cast by statute on particular parties (Sections 103 and 105). 43. There is an essential distinction between burden of proof and onus of proof; burden of proof lies upon a person who has to prove the fact and which never shifts but onus of proof shifts. Such a shifting of onus is a continuous process in the evaluation of evidence. For instance, in a suit for possession based on the title, once the plaintiff has been able to create a high degree of probability so as to shift the onus on the defendant, it is for the defendant to discharge his onus and in the absence thereof, the burden of proof lying on the plaintiff shall be held to have been discharged so as to amount to proof of the plaintiff’s title vide RVE [2024] 4 S.C.R. 753 Mahakali Sujatha v. The Branch Manager, Future Generali India Life Insurance Company Limited & another Venkatachala Gounder vs. Arulmigu Viswesaraswami and VP Temple, (2003) 8 SCC 752. 44. In a claim against the insurance company for compensation, where the appellants in the said case had discharged the initial burden regarding destruction, damage of the showroom and the stocks therein by fire and riot in support of the claim under the insurance policy, it was for the insurance company to disprove such claim with evidence, if any, vide Shobika Attire vs. New India Assurance Co. Ltd., (2006) 8 SCC 35.