From the commencement of this Act- (i) The Societies known as the Muhammadan Anglo- Oriental College, Aligarh, and the Muslim University Association shall be dissolved, and all property, moveable and immoveable, and all rights powers and privileges of the said Societies and all property, moveable and immoveable, and all rights, powers and privileges of the Muslim University Foundation Committee shall be transferred to and vest in the University and shall be applied to the objects and purposes for which the University is incorporated; 1890 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports (ii) All debts, liabilities and obligations of the said Societies and Committees shall be transferred to the University and shall thereafter be discharged and satisfied by it; (iii) all references in any enactment to either of the said Societies and Committee shall be construed as references to the University; (iv) any will, deed or other document, whether made or executed before or after the commencement of this Act, which contains any bequest, gift or trust in favour either of the said Societies or of the said committee shall, on the commencement of this Act, be construed as if the University was therein named instead of such Society or Committee; (v) subject to any which the Court may make, the buildings which belonged to the Muhammadan Anglo Oriental College, Aligarh, shall continue to be known and designated immediately before the commencement of this Act; (vi) Subject to the provision of this Act, every person employed immediately before the commencement of this Act in the Muhammadan Anglo-Oriental College, Aligarh, shall hold employment in the University by the same tenure and upon the same terms and conditions and with the same rights and privileges as to pension and gratuity as he would have held the same under the Muhammadan Anglo-Oriental College, Aligarh, if this Act had not been passed;” (emphasis supplied) Thus, the societies, from which the appellants contend AMU inherited its minority character, stood dissolved upon the AMU Act coming into force. AMU was, thus, an institution unto itself, distinct from MAO College. There was a clear and statutory break from the antecedent history, and the character of AMU as it were, has to be examined on its own merit. 78. The appellants have relied on a number of decisions to contend that a university could also be a minority institution, foremost of which [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1891 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. was St. Stephen’s College vs. University of Delhi42. However, all the precedents relied on, have as their focus of discussion colleges and not universities. Though both are educational institutions which come under the ambit of Article 30(1), they are not synonymous with each other and are markedly different, particularly in one aspect, i.e., universities only can confer degrees while colleges cannot unless, as in present days, a college is also deemed to be a university and can award degrees. MAO College when it existed, established by Muslim individuals, could not confer degrees and it was only Allahabad University, of which MAO College was an affiliated college, that could award degrees.