For instance, a retail dealer or supplier of goods, obtains goods from a wholesale supplier or a manufacturer for subsequent resale to retail customers or suppliers who, in turn, deals with retail dealers or shopkeepers. Such ‘middlemen’ are sometimes referred to as ‘agents’, when in fact they are franchisees of the manufacturer or supplier, or are distributors of the manufactures’ goods, perhaps with a ‘sole agency’ or special dealership for his goods. Such ‘agents’ can be real buyers, acting as principals on their own behalf. Consequently, they are not liable to the manufacturer or supplier in the way an agent might be for failure of duty, nor do their contracts with other parties – whether it be suppliers, retail dealers or individual customers – hold the party who sold to them, liable, for any breach including misrepresentation or sale of defective goods. The seller’s contractual or tortious liability is different from the manufacturer’s liability on account of warranty/guarantee, statutory liability or even obligation to a third party who purchases the goods or avails services from/through the independent contractor. An agent renders service to the principal, who he/she represents, and therefore the principal, and not the agent, is liable to the third parties. Further, the money received by an independent contractor from his customers will belong to the independent contractor and not to the party who sold to him. The money will be a part of such independent contractor’s property in the event of his bankruptcy or liquidation. This may be the case even if the contract of sale is one of ‘sale or return’. It is important to avoid confusion, by applying the legal tests, that may arise where 1018 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the functions of the ‘buyer’ – described as an ‘agent’ – is really as that of a ‘middleman’, and the necessary elements for creation of principal and an agent relationship are absent. Two level commercial transaction can result in an tripartite arrangement/agreement with respective rights and obligations, without any of the two parties having principal-agent relationship. 17. Clause (d) in paragraph 8 observes that the agent is liable to render accounts to the principal as the business done by the agent is on principal’s account. The agent is entitled to remuneration from the principal for the work he performs. To decide whether a contracting party acts for himself as an independent contractor, we may examine whether in the course of work, he intends to make profits for himself, or is entitled to receive prearranged remuneration. If the party is concerned about acting for himself and making the maximum profits possible, he is usually regarded as a buyer, or an independent contractor and not as an agent of the principal. This would be true even when certain terms and conditions have been fixed relating to the manner in which the seller conducts his business. We shall subsequently further elucidate on the characteristics of an independent contractor, and differentiate them from the principal-agent relationship. 18.