The farmers had invested huge amounts, sometimes through loans, in these projects and a reduction in tariff from Rs. 8.40 to Rs. 4.36 per unit would adversely affect them. Hence, it directed the appellant to pay the difference in per unit tariff along with the late payment surcharge as provided under Article 6.4 of the PPA. 4.7 Lastly, it also set aside the imposition of liquidated damages under the PPA as it found that there was no delay in securing approvals and commissioning the project. 1032 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 5. Submissions: We have heard Mr. K.M. Nataraj, ASG and Mr. Yasobant Das, senior advocate appearing for the appellants, and Mr. Basava Prabhu Patil, senior advocate for the respondents. The learned counsels have, through the course of their submissions, emphasised on whether or not the delay in the present matter would be covered under the force majeure clause of the PPA. 5.1 Learned ASG argued that a force majeure clause must be strictly interpreted. There must be a specific pleading by the party claiming force majeure and the burden is on him to prove the same. In this regard, he made two primary submissions: first, there was no force majeure event that warrants an extension of time under Article 2.5 of the PPA; and second, the respondents have not complied with the requirement of submitting a written notice invoking force majeure as required under Article 8.3(b)(i). Further, he has also argued that the APTEL was not justified in granting late payment surcharge to the respondent as the same was not pleaded before the KERC or in appeal. 5.2 In regard the argument on force majeure, Mr. Nataraj has taken us through the various dates concerning approval for change in land use and the evacuation approval. He has submitted that the delay in securing these approvals is attributable to the respondents, who were required to obtain these permissions within the contractually stipulated period of 365 days under Article 2.1 of the PPA, and to finally commission the project within a period of 18 months. Despite being aware of these timelines, he submits that the respondents delayed the applications and payment of requisite fees. The government departments provided the approvals within a few days from the time when the respondents fulfilled all requirements. He therefore submits that the delay is attributable to the respondents and hence, as per Article 8.3(b)(iv), they cannot claim benefit of force majeure. Consequently, the tariff must be reduced as per Article 5.1 as a higher tariff increases the burden on consumers and hence, affects public interest. 5.3 Mr. Das supplemented these submissions by arguing that in Civil Appeal No. 6386 of 2021, the respondents therein had also raised the ground of demonetisation as a reason for delay in commissioning. He submits that Article 8.3 of the PPA does not cover such a ground as a force majeure event. [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1033 Bangalore Electricity Supply Company Limited v. Hirehalli Solar Power Project LLP & Others 6.