[Paras 16-17] National Green Tribunal (NGT) – Perfunctory dismissal of case – Criticized: Held: The Tribunal ought to have verified the authenticity of the grievance – Callous approach towards adjudication undermines the integrity of the judicial process and also compromises the very purpose for which the NGT was established – Such callousness also reflects a lack of due diligence and disregard for the gravity of the environmental concerns raised by the appellants setting a concerning precedent which erodes public trust in the efficacy of environmental governance mechanisms. [Paras 16-17] Environment – Environmental Impact Assessment Notification, 2006 – Para 2 of the Notification – Examined in the light of the facts: Held: Paragraph 2 of the Notification makes it clear that before any construction or preparation of land by the project management except for securing the land, shall require prior environmental [2024] 6 S.C.R. 77 Tapas Guha & Ors. v. Union of India & Ors. clearance from the concerned regulatory authority, which shall hereinafter referred to be as the Central Government in the Ministry of Environment and Forests for matters falling under Category ‘A’ in the Schedule – Construction of airports is item 7(a) of the A Schedule to the Notification dated 14 September 2006 – Extensive activities were carried out at the site without obtaining environmental clearance and is in breach of paragraph 2 of the notification. [Paras 7 and 15] The need for Environmental Regulations and Environmental Clearance – Explained: Held: Environmental regulations are in place precisely to ensure that developmental projects, such as the establishment of airports, are undertaken in a manner that minimizes adverse ecological impacts and safeguards the well-being of both the environment and local communities – The infrastructure development must proceed in harmony with environmental laws to prevent irreparable damage to ecosystems and biodiversity – The requirement for Environmental Clearance prevents unchecked exploitation of natural resources and helps uphold the principles of sustainable development – The decision on whether an airport is situated at a particular place is a matter of policy, but when the law prescribes specific norms for carrying out activities requiring an Environmental Clearance, it has to be strictly complied with. [Paras 20-21] List of Acts National Green tribunal Act, 2010; EIA Notification S.O. 1533(E) Dated 14.09.2006. List of Keywords Environmental clearance; Felling trees; Tea estate; Greenfield airport. Case Arising From CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal Nos. 4603-4604 of 2024 From the and dated 25.01.2024 of the National Green Tribunal, Eastern Zone in Original Application No. 15 of 2024 and I.A. No. 8/2024/EZ 78 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Appearances for Parties Prashant Bhushan, Ms. Ria Yadav, Advs. for the Appellants. Tushar Mehta, Solicitor General, Nalin Kohli, Sr. A.A.G., Devajit Saikia, Advocate General, Gopal Sankaranarayanan, Sr. Adv., Raghav Shankar, Karan Lahiri, Abhikalp Pratap Singh, Ms. Aagam Kaur, Ms. Yamini Singh, Kartikey, Ravi Shankar Pandey, Aditya Dixit, Shuvodeep Roy, Saurabh Tripathi, Sumit Kumar, Ms. Rukmini Barua, Ms. Padmini Barua, Debadutta Kanungo, Ms. Alice Raj, Rahul Gupta, Advs. for the Respondents. / of the Supreme Court Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI 1.