Gajapati Narayan Deo vs. State of Orissa (1953) 2 SCC 178 [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1631 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. of the said Commission were inter alia to determine the criteria for defining the socially and educationally backward classes, to recommend steps to be taken for the advancement of the socially and educationally backward classes of citizens so identified, and to examine the desirability or otherwise of making provision for reservation of appointments or posts in favour of such backward classes of citizens which were not adequately represented in the public services and posts in connection with the affairs of the Union or of any State. The Government of India itself on the recommendations of the Mandal Commission issued an office memorandum on August 13, 1990 purporting to extend reservations for socially and educationally backward classes in its services w.e.f. August 7, 1990. The said O.M reserved 27% of the seats for SEBC in addition to those already reserved for the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. The issuance of the said O.M led to widespread protest and filing of writ petitions in the Supreme Court questioning the said Memorandum. The Five-Judge Bench of this Court by its dated October 1, 1990 stayed the operation of the said O.M. dated 13th August, 1990, however, the process of identification of castes for locating the SEBCs was permitted to continue. Thereafter, as a consequence of the change in the Government at the Centre, another O.M on September 25th, 1991 modifying the earlier O.M. of August 13, 1990 was issued, by introducing the economic criteria in the grant of reservation by giving preference to the poorer sections of the SEBC’s in the 27% quota and reserving another 10% of the vacancies in the civil services for other economically backward sections not covered by any of the existing schemes of reservation, which was explained to extend to the poorest amongst the higher caste and other religions also. The constitutionality of the said O.M dated September 25, 1991 was challenged before this Court and the Nine-Judge Bench was constituted to hear the matters. The matter was heard by the Nine-Judge Bench and by a 6:3 decision, the constitutionality, validity and enforceability of the impugned O.M dated 13.08.1990 subject to certain conditionalities and prerequisites was upheld, whereas paragraph 2(ii) of the second O.M. dated September 25, 1991 providing 10% additional reservation for the economically backward was held unconstitutional and struck down. Six separate s were delivered. The leading was by B. P. Jeevan Reddy, J, (for M.H. Kania, C.J., and 1632 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports M.N. Venkatchaliah, A.M. Ahmadi and himself) with S.Ratnavel Pandian and P.B Sawant, J.J concurring by their separate s. 60. Several questions were posed before the Nine-Judge Bench in Indra Sawhney which have been broadly indicated and discussed in the leading of Jeevan Reddy, J along with the miscellaneous questions discussed therein. The questions particularly germane to the Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes were the Question-3(a), Question-3(e) and Question-10.