[It read: 151. (1) No notice shall be issued under section 148 by an Assessing Officer, after the expiry of a period of four years from the end of the relevant assessment year, unless the Principal Chief Commissioner or Chief Commissioner or Principal Commissioner or Commissioner is satisfied, on the reasons recorded by the Assessing Officer, that it is a fit case for the issue of such notice. (2) In a case other than a case falling under sub-section (1), no notice shall be issued under section 148 by an Assessing Officer, who is below the rank of Joint Commissioner, unless the Joint Commissioner is satisfied, on the reasons recorded by such Assessing Officer, that it is a fit case for the issue of such notice. (3) For the purposes of sub-section (1) and sub-section (2), the Principal Chief Commissioner or the Chief Commissioner or the Principal Commissioner or the Commissioner or the Joint Commissioner, as the case may be, being satisfied on the reasons recorded by the Assessing Officer about fitness of a case for the issue of notice under section 148, need not issue such notice himself.] 9 Section 2(28C) of the Income Tax Act defines Joint Commissioner to mean “a person appointed to be a Joint Commissioner of Income-tax or an Additional Commissioner of Income-tax under sub-section (1) of section 117.” 10 Section 2(34-A) of the Income Tax Act defines Principal Chief Commissioner of Income tax to mean “a person appointed to be a Principal Chief Commissioner of Income-tax under sub-section (1) of section 117.” 11 Section 2(15A) of the Income Tax Act defines a Chief Commissioner to mean “a person appointed to a Chief Commissioner of Income tax or a Director General of Income tax or a Principal Chief Commissioner of Income tax or a Principal Director General of Income-tax under sub-section (1) of Section 117.” 12 Section 2(16) defines Principal Commissioner or Commissioner to mean “a person appointed to be a Principal Commissioner or Commissioner of Income tax or a Principal Director or Director of Income tax or a Principal Commissioner of Income tax or a Principal Director of Income tax under sub-section (1) of section 117.” 13 (2003) 1 SCC 72 [2002] Supp. (4) S.C.R. 359 [5]. It reads: [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1651 Union of India & Ors. v. Rajeev Bansal required to furnish reasons for reopening assessments and give an opportunity of hearing to the assessee. 5. The Revenue had to follow the following procedure for reopening assessment under the old regime: (i) Section 147 allowed the assessing officer to reassess any income chargeable to tax if the officer had“reasons to believe” that such income escaped assessment; (ii) The assessing officer had to ensure that the notice under Section 148 was issued within the timelimits prescribed under Section 149; (iii) The assessing officer had to obtain the sanction of the specified authority under Section 151 before issuing a reassessment notice; (iv) The assessing officer had to grant an opportunity of hearing to the assessee in terms of GKN Driveshafts (supra); and (v) The assessing officer was thereafter empowered to issue anotice of reassessment under Section 148. ii.