With that, the institution also retains the right to challenge any invasive restrictions imposed on it; and m. The imperial government never interfered with the administration of the University after it was incorporated. MAO College was also supervised by the British government even when it was not a university. MAO College was acknowledged as a minority institution under Azeez Basha (supra). 21. Mr Salman Khurshid, learned senior counsel made the following submissions: a. Adopting a ‘political, moral reading’ of Article 30 would facilitate a broader interpretation of the term ‘established’. Ronald Dworkin’s definition of a ‘political moral reading’ involves invoking moral [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1695 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. principles about political decency and justice for interpreting constitutional provisions;17 b. Aligarh Tehzeeb represents a distinctive cultural ethos cultivated by the AMU. This unique cultural identity encompasses traditions, values and practices that have evolved within the university; c. The concept of takeover in the context of educational institutions can be categorized into non-consensual and consensual takeovers. In the case of AMU, there was a consensual takeover, where changes and amendments were made to its structure and character through a process that involved the University’s participation and consent; and d. AMU was founded by members of the community. The societies formed for this purpose had a crucial role in the establishment and evolution of the University, contributing resources, support and a collective vision that shaped the identity and character of AMU. 22. Mr. Shadan Farasat, learned counsel submitted that: a. The purpose of Article 30 rests primarily on two grounds: i. The ability to retain the minority identity; ii. The ability to fully participate in the national mainstream; Azeez Basha (supra) adopts an approach by which the institution could either retain the minority status or integrate into the national mainstream and lose it; b. The Indian secularism model allows state involvement in religious activities without compromising their character; c. In advocating for a broader interpretation of ‘establish’ in Article 30, there is a need to distinguish between ‘establish’ and ‘incorporate’ to better preserve constitutional protection for minority educational institutions. The AMU Act of 1920 only “incorporated” AMU. This is fundamentally different from the establishment of the institution; d. Stripping away the minority character of AMU would diminish its significant place in history since the institution has led to: 17 Reliance was placed on Ronald Dworkin, “The Moral Reading of the Constitution” (March 21, 1996). 1696 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports i. The creation of a Muslim-educated middle class; and ii. The education of women. e. The validity of the 1981 amendment should not be considered in this case. The Parliament enacted it to reinstate AMU’s minority status, which is now being contested by the current Union government. Considering the Union’s arguments requires reassessing Parliament’s reasoning behind the law. 23. Mr MR Shamshad, learned counsel submitted that an inclusive definition of ‘minority educational institutions’ includes universities established and administered by minorities. 24. The respondents broadly submitted that Azeez Basha (supra) is good law, and that AMU is not a minority institution.