A university established by a statute cannot be kept out of the scope of Article 30 of the Constitution. If it is so kept out, then it would mean all tertiary education, except private institutions, will not get the protection of Article 30. As per Dr. Dhawan’s reading of Azeez Basha [supra], every minority institution, once given a statutory recognition, will fall outside the ambit of Article 30. 41. Dr. Dhawan referred to the amendments made to the 1920 Act in the year 1981, which, as noted hereinabove, have already been struck down by the Allahabad High Court by the impugned . It is submitted that the validity of the said amendment provisions need not be examined by this Bench and can be later dealt with by the regular bench. As per Dr. Dhawan, presently, the only issue which may be decided is whether Azeez Basha [supra] was correctly decided or not. 42. Dr. Dhawan, referring to the said provisions and the statutes annexed to the 1920 Act, submitted that de jure the control of management of the Aligarh Muslim University was and is with the Muslim Community. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1933 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. Further, adverting to certain other facts such as that all Chancellors till date have been Muslims and 34 out of 37 Vice-Chancellors have been Muslims, it has been pleaded that de facto too, the administration of the Aligarh Muslim University has been in the hands of the Muslim community. 43. Mr. Kapil Sibal, learned senior counsel, appearing for the Old Boys’ Association, submitted that the in Azeez Basha [supra] failed to consider the history and genesis of the Aligarh Muslim University in the right perspective. While determining the factum of the establishment of the University, historical initiative, impetus, promotion, and purpose behind the institution has to be given due importance, which was not done in Azeez Basha [supra]. 44. It is asserted that Azeez Basha [supra] wrongly concludes that the University was established by the 1920 Act and therefore, it cannot be considered a minority institution. The 1920 Act is not the establishing factum of the University but only a recognition of such establishment, which has been done by the Muslim community at the relevant time. In to highlight the history and purpose behind the institute, Mr. Sibal relied upon letters exchanged between Sir Syed Ahmed Khan and the relevant authorities of the Government and the debates which took place when the Aligarh Muslim University Bill was being discussed in the Imperial Legislature in the year 1920. In short, the genesis, according to him, includes the following: a. Inspiration or purpose to set up the institution is by the minority. b. The steps taken for persuasion are by the minority. c. The essential paraphernalia or initial funding should be by the minority. d. Persuading the authorities, by the minority, to accept that fact. 45. Mr. Sibal vehemently argued that the mere presence of “outsiders” in the administration of a minority institution would not deprive the institution from its minority status.