Contentions: 17. Before us Mr. Mukul Rohatgi and Mr. Siddharth Agarwal, learned senior counsel for the appellants reiterated the contentions raised before the High Court. 690 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 18. Insofar as the appellant Puneet Sabharwal was concerned, it was contended as follows: (i) That the High Court erred in holding that merely because for a large part of the period of investigation, the appellant was a minor, it would not be by itself a reason to disregard the fact that for at least seven years of the investigation period he was a major; (ii) That the courts below erred in, without more, endorsing the allegations against the appellant(s) solely on account of being named as a beneficiary in the trust deed of M/s Morni Devi Brij Lal Trust. Further, the Court erred in endorsing the allegation that the trust was holding benami properties of which appellant R.C. Sabharwal was a beneficial owner; (iii) That since out of the twenty years of the check period except 7 years of the said period the appellant Puneet Sabharwal was a minor, it belied logic as to how the said appellant could have conspired with his father. This indicated gross abuse of process of law. (iv) That the charge as framed indicates that criminal proceedings have been saddled against appellant Puneet Sabharwal merely by virtue of being his father’s son and none of the ingredients under Section 109 of the Indian Penal Code were attracted; (v) That the High Court erred in not taking into account the exoneration of the appellant’s father by the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal; that the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal, by its of 31.08.2007, rendered a categorical finding that the father did not hold the properties of the said trust as benami and even the limited issue on which the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal remanded the matter, by the of 30.12.2009, the assessment officer found the deposits to be income of the son. 19. Insofar as the appellant R.C. Sabharwal is concerned, the argument was substantially on the basis of the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal of 31.08.2007. The contentions were as follows: (i) The of Income Tax Appellate Tribunal categorically held that income arising from properties of various entities were wrongly added to the income of the appellant; [2024] 3 S.C.R. 691 Puneet Sabharwal v. CBI (ii) The appellant was not the owner of those entities and consequently the properties and money held by those entities could not be held to be under the ownership of the appellant R.C. Sabharwal; (iii) The reassessment for thirteen years was carried out on the complaint of CBI itself; (iv) The courts below misapplied the of this Court in Selvi J. Jayalalitha (supra) and failed to notice the distinguishing feature namely that, in the present case, it was not a case of reliance on income tax return but the returns which were subjected to an inquisition. (v) The High Court exercising power under Article 226, 227 of the Constitution of India and Section 482 of Cr.P.C.