Ltd. by becoming the Directors of the said companies from the back date for showing their IDS declarations as genuine. Thus, the said appellants have also committed the offence of money laundering as defined under Section 3 of PMLA by being actually involved in and knowingly assisting Satyendar Kumar Jain in projecting his proceeds of crime to the tune of Rs.4,81,16,435/- as untainted in the mode and manner stated in the Prosecution Complaint. 19. It was vehemently argued by the Learned Senior Advocate Mr. Singhvi, for the appellant Satyendar Jain that there was gross discrepancy in the amount of proceeds of crime calculated by the ED in the Prosecution Complaint and in the amount with regard to disproportionate assets mentioned by the CBI in the chargesheet filed in the predicate offence. According to him, the amount with regard to disproportionate assets mentioned by the CBI is Rs. 1,47,60,497/- whereas as per the ED the proceeds of crime is Rs.4,81,16,435/-. Even if the accommodation entries amounting to about Rs.4.6 crores are attributed to the appellant-Satyendar Kumar Jain through his wife’s share holdings, it would come to only Rs.59,32,122/- which is less than one crore. He has further submitted that the appellant- Satyendar Kumar Jain neither served as a Director nor had signed any financial document during the check period and that he had already resigned from the Directorship of the companies two years before the commission of the alleged offence. According to him, it was the appellants- Vaibhav Jain and Ankush Jain, and their family members who had the significant influence over the control of the companies involved in the case. 20. In to appreciate the submissions of Mr. Singhvi, let us have a cursory glance over the definitions of the words “beneficial owner” as contained in Section 2(1)(fa), “Money laundering” as defined in 802 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Section 2(1)(p), “Proceeds of Crime” in section 2(1)(u) and “Property” in Section 2(1)(v), and the offence under Section 3 of the PMLA. The said definitions read as under: “Section 2 (1) (fa) (fa) “beneficial owner” means an individual who ultimately owns or controls a client of a reporting entity or the person on whose behalf a transaction is being conducted and includes a person who exercises ultimate effective control over a juridical person; Section 2 (1) (p) (p) “money-laundering” has the meaning assigned to it in section 3; Section 2 (1)(u) (u) “proceeds of crime” means any property derived or obtained, directly or indirectly, by any person as a result of criminal activity relating to a scheduled offence or the value of any such property or where such property is taken or held outside the country, then the property equivalent in value held within the country or abroad; Explanation. --For the removal of doubts, it is hereby clarified that “proceeds of crime” include property not only derived or obtained from the scheduled offence but also any property which may directly or indirectly be derived or obtained as a result of any criminal activity relatable to the scheduled offence; Section 2 (1)(v) (v) “property” means any property or assets of every description, whether corporeal or incorporeal, movable or immovable, tangible or intangible and includes deeds and instruments evidencing title to, or interest in, such property or assets, wherever located; Explanation.