There may be certain unauthorized constructions which could be compoundable. There may be certain constructions wherein only part of the construction is required to be removed. In such cases, the extreme step of demolition of the property/house property would, in our view, be disproportionate. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 779 In Re: Directions in The Matter of Demolition of Structures 84. As already discussed herein above, the right to shelter is one of the facets of Article 21 of the Constitution. If the persons are to be dishoused, then for taking such steps the concerned authorities must satisfy themselves that such an extreme step of demolition is only available and other options including compounding and demolition of only part of the house property are not available. This Court in catena of cases including the Constitution Bench cases of Modern Dental College and Research Centre and others v. State of Madhya Pradesh and others,42 K.S. Puttaswamy and another v. Union of India and others43 (Privacy 9-J) and Vivek Narayan Sharma and others v. Union of India and others44 (Demonetization Case-5J) has laid emphasis on the four-pronged test of proportionality. 85. In the case of Modern Dental College and Research Centre and others (supra), this Court observed thus: “60. …….Thus, while examining as to whether the impugned provisions of the statute and rules amount to reasonable restrictions and are brought out in the interest of the general public, the exercise that is required to be undertaken is the balancing of fundamental right to carry on occupation on the one hand and the restrictions imposed on the other hand. This is what is known as “doctrine of proportionality”. Jurisprudentially, “proportionality” can be defined as the set of rules determining the necessary and sufficient conditions for limitation of a constitutionally protected right by a law to be constitutionally permissible. According to Aharon Barak (former Chief Justice, Supreme Court of Israel), there are four sub-components of proportionality which need to be satisfied [ Aharon Barak, Proportionality: Constitutional Rights and Their Limitation (Cambridge University Press 2012).] , a limitation of a constitutional right will be constitutionally permissible if: 42 [2016] 3 SCR 575 : (2016) 7 SCC 353 43 [2017] 10 SCR 569 : (2017) 10 SCC 1 44 [2023] 1 SCR 1 : (2023) 3 SCC 1 780 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (i) it is designated for a proper purpose; (ii) the measures undertaken to effectuate such a limitation are rationally connected to the fulfilment of that purpose; (iii) the measures undertaken are necessary in that there are no alternative measures that may similarly achieve that same purpose with a lesser degree of limitation; and finally (iv) there needs to be a proper relation (“proportionality stricto sensu” or “balancing”) between the importance of achieving the proper purpose and the social importance of preventing the limitation on the constitutional right.” 86. It is also to be noted that the construction of a house has an aspect of socio-economic rights. For an average citizen, the construction of a house is often the culmination of years of hard work, dreams, and aspirations.