The size of the coverage area depends on the signal strength of the base station and the degree of attenuation. Each BTS is assigned a certain number of channels for transmitting and receiving data which is called as cell allocation (“CA”). To avoid interference between [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1591 M/s Bharti Airtel Ltd. v. The Commissioner of Central Excise, Pune cells, it needs to be guaranteed that the neighbouring base stations are also assigned cell allocations of different channels. There are no sharp bs between neighbouring cells. Most of the time they overlap. In urban areas, a mobile device can hear a set of around 10 base stations simultaneously, and then it selects from this set of base station within the strongest signal. The number of cells a network is made up of is basically a function of the size of area to be covered and the user penetration. When building up a new network, operators first concentrate on establishing a coverage in congested urban areas before establishing base stations in rural areas. If a network runs the risk of becoming overloaded in a certain region, the operators can increase the capacity by increasing the base stations density. A cellular network not only consists of base stations but also comprises a network infrastructure for interconnecting base stations, mobility support, service provisioning and connection to other networks like internet. Therefore, a cellular network consists of several access networks, which include the radio equipment which is necessary to interconnect a terminal to the network. The access networks are interconnected by the core network. For example, in GSM, the access network is referred to as Base Station Subsystem (“BSS”) whereas the core network is denoted as Mobile Switching and Management Subsystem (“SMSS”). BSS is responsible for monitoring and controlling the air interface. BSS consists of two different components, namely Base Transceiver Station (“BTS”) and Base Station Controller (“BSC”). BTS stands for “base station”. It contains transmitter and receiver equipment as well as an antenna. The base station is equipped with very limited capabilities for signalling a protocol processing. 1592 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports The bulk of the work, for example, allocation and release of channels is done by the BSC. The BSC is mainly responsible for control and execution of handover, a function which is needed to keep a circuit-switched connection if the subscriber moves between base stations. Therefore, each BSC controls several base stations, which are connected to the BSC via fixed lines or radio link systems. On the other hand, mobile Switching and Management System is a fixed network of switching nods and databases for establishing connections from and to the mobile subscriber. HLR and VLR are two important databases which are the foundation of the Numbering Plan in MSC. The switching components are the Mobile Switching Centre (“MSC”) and the Gateway MSC (“GMSC”). The MSC connects a number of BSCs. to the network for the purposes of localization and handover. Thus, it is the MSC which is responsible for serving a limited geographic region governed by all base stations connected to the MSC over their BSCs.