17. Before we proceed to take a look at the provisions of the Tenancy Act, it may be noted that the precursor thereof was the Bombay Tenancy Act, 1939. It was applicable to the whole of the Province of Bombay, except Bombay City, and was intended to protect tenants 604 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of agricultural lands. This statute stood repealed upon the Tenancy Act coming into force in December, 1948. The Tenancy Act was enacted to amend the law relating to tenancy of agricultural lands and to make certain other provisions in regard to those lands. It was placed in the Ninth Schedule to the Constitution and stood protected under Article 31(b) thereof. Section 88 of the Tenancy Act exempted Government lands and certain other lands from the provisions thereof. 18. Agrarian reforms were undertaken to alleviate the plight of agricultural tenants and resulted in beneficial measures being introduced for them from 01.04.1957. This day came to be known as ‘Tillers’ Day’. Amendments were made to the Tenancy Act in this context and a separate Chapter enabling purchase of tenanted lands by the tenants was inserted therein. Sections 32 to 32-R were introduced thereby in the Tenancy Act. Section 32 is titled ‘Tenants deemed to have purchased land on Tillers’ day’ and Section 32(1) stated that, on the first day of April, 1957, every tenant shall, subject to the other provisions of that section and of the next succeeding sections, be deemed to have purchased from his landlord, free of all encumbrances subsisting thereon on the said day, the land held by him as a tenant. Sections 32-A to 32-R gave effect to the tenant’s right to purchase the tenanted agricultural land. 19. The issue presently is whether the Tenancy Act had application to the subject Watan lands. The appellants would contend that it had no application, be it on Tillers’ Day or in February/March, 1958, when Balaji Chimnaji More, the original Watandar, died and an application was made by his legal heirs under Sections 5 of the1874 Act. It is their case that the exemption under Section 88 of the Tenancy Act was applicable to these lands. To the extent relevant, the said provision, after its amendment with effect from 01.08.1956, reads as under: ‘88. Exemption to Government lands and certain other lands.- (1) [Save as otherwise provided in sub-section (2), nothing in the foregoing provisions of this Act] shall apply,- [a] to lands belonging to or held on lease from, the Government; ……………………’ An ‘Explanation’ was inserted in relation to the above clause (a) in July, 1958. It reads as under: [2024] 3 S.C.R. 605 Baban Balaji More (Dead) by LRs. & others v. Babaji Hari Shelar (Dead) by LRs. & others ‘[Explanation.- For the purposes of clause (a) of sub-section (1) of this section land held as inam or watan for service useful to Government and assigned as remuneration to the person actually performing such service for the time being, under Section 23 of the Bombay Hereditary Offices Act, 1874, or any other law for the time being in force, shall be deemed to be land belonging to the Government.