The accused appellant-Kirpal Singh who was armed with a knife, stabbed her on the abdomen whereas the other accused appellant caught her by the arm. As per the prosecution, the accused appellant had assaulted Balwinder Singh (deceased) with a spade which was abandoned at the spot and then the accused came down with a knife. 18. The story so set up by the prosecution, does not inspire confidence for more than one reasons. As discussed above, once the accused had achieved the objective of eliminating Balwinder Singh(deceased) without being discovered, they had all the opportunity in the world to escape from the spot by using the very same ladder, which had been used to climb up the chaubara. Thus, there was no reason for the accused to risk discovery by coming down and alarming the family members. Furthermore, as per the prosecution case, two accused were involved in the incident. If at all the prosecution case is to be believed, the accused after killing Balwinder Singh(deceased), must have gone down to eliminate the other family members and in that background, there was no reason as to why the person accompanying the accused appellant was unarmed. This again creates a doubt on the truthfulness of the prosecution story. The first informant- Sharan Kaur (PW-5) made a big issue regarding the conduct of the investigating agency alleging that the investigation being conducted was partisan and tainted. She filed petitions before different forums including the Chief Minister and the High Court. She was confronted with these applications extensively in her cross examination and she virtually resiled from the averments made therein. For illustration, we would like to reproduce some excerpts from the cross examination of Sharan Kaur (PW-5):- “...We approached the Hon’ble High Court as my statement was not being correctly recorded by the Police. On the directions of the Hon’ble High Court my statement was recorded by the Crime Branch.” xxx xxx “...I have seen the carbon copy of the application Addressed to CM Punjab Chandigarh. It bears my signature and is Ex.DB. My father used to get my signature on the Blank 718 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports papers so I can not say whether the application of Ex.DA was moved by me on 15.12.97 after the completion of investigation by DSP Ajaib Singh. The witness is not ready to answer the question whether the application EX.DA bear the name of accused Kulwinder Singh @ Neeta. In the application the name of Kulwinder Singh @ Neeta is not written but some unidentified person has been written. The witness has explained that she used to disclose the name of Kulwinder Singh @ Neeta but the police was not recording his name and the application Ex.DA might have been drafted by his counsel at his own. The witness is not ready to answer the question that the copy of the FIR was attached with the writ petition/Crl. Misc application or that the name of Kulwinder Singh @ Neeta was not mentioned in the said petition or that in the petition also the name of unidentified person was mentioned.