We find that the statement substantially differs from what is narrated in paragraph 17.16 of the charge sheet. 11. The perusal of the statement shows that protected witness Z did not expressly state that the appellant participated in the meeting held on 29th May 2022. He has set out the names of several persons who attended the meeting. The appellant’s name is not included in the names set out. In fact, the statement of protected witness Z indicates that after the meeting, the appellant was introduced as the owner of the building. Paragraph 17.16 alleges that protected witness Z stated that in the meeting, subjects such as the expansion of the organisation, basic and advanced training of PFI members and future PFI plans were discussed, and a direction was given to trained PFI cadre to eliminate one Nupur Sharma. In the statement of protected witness Z, all that is not found. In fact, protected witness Z stated that during the meeting, emphasis was given on strengthening the status of Muslims, imparting them basic and advanced training and strengthening the status of education, politics and administration of Muslims and Muslim empowerment. Going by the witness’s version, we find that there was no discussion about the activities of PFI in the meeting held on 29th May 2022. According to the witness, the direction to kill Nupur Sharma was issued in June 2022 and not in the meeting of 29th May 2022. We are not reproducing the statement 642 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of the protected witness Z as it has been kept in a sealed cover. Suffice it to say that what is reproduced in paragraph 17.16 is not correct. The material portion of witness Z’s actual statement has been completely distorted in paragraph 17.16 of the charge sheet. Several things which protected witness Z did not state have been incorporated in paragraph 17.16. Unfortunately, paragraph 17.16 attributes certain statements to protected witness Z, which he did not make. NIA owes an explanation for that. The investigating machinery has to be fair. But, in this case, paragraph 17.16 indicates to the contrary. 12. Now, we come to the provision relating to bail under the UAPA, which is sub-Section 5 of Section 43D of the UAPA, which reads thus: “43-D. Modified application of certain provisions of the Code.— ………………………………………………………….. (5) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code, no person accused of an offence punishable under Chapters IV and VI of this Act shall, if in custody, be released on bail or on his own bond unless the Public Prosecutor has been given an opportunity of being heard on the application for such release: Provided that such accused person shall not be released on bail or on his own bond if the Court, on a perusal of the case diary or the report made under Section 173 of the Code is of the opinion that there are reasonable grounds for believing that the accusation against such person is prima facie true. ………………………………………………………….” 13.