69. The importance and purpose of the principles of natural justice have been succinctly summed up by Lord Megarry in the case of John v Rees40 as under: 37 Id. at 209-210. 38 [2008] 4 SCR 783 : AIR 2008 SC 1943 39 [1982] 1 SCR 299 : (1981) 3 SCC 610 40 (1970) Ch 345 at p. 402 774 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “It may be that there are some who would decry the importance which the courts attach to the observance of the rules of natural justice. ‘When something is obvious,’ they may say, ‘why force everybody to go through the tiresome waste of time involved in framing charges and giving an opportunity to be heard? The result is obvious from the start.’ Those who take this view do not, I think, do themselves justice. As everybody who has anything to do with the law well knows, the path of the law is strewn with examples of open and shut cases which, somehow, were not; of unanswerable charges which, in the event, were completely answered; of inexplicable conduct which was fully explained; of fixed and unalterable determinations that, by discussion, suffered a change. Nor are those with any knowledge of human nature who pause to think for a moment likely to underestimate the feelings of resentment of those who find that a decision against them has been made without their being afforded any opportunity to influence the course of events.” 70. In the light of the aforesaid, we will have to consider the grievance as sought to be espoused in the present Writ Petitions. 71. As discussed hereinabove, the rule of law, the rights of the citizens guaranteed under the Constitution, and the principles of natural justice would be essential requirements. If a citizen’s house is demolished merely because he is an accused or even for that matter a convict, that too without following the due process as prescribed by law, in our considered view, it will be totally unconstitutional for more than one reason. Firstly, the executive cannot declare a person guilty, as this process is the fundamental aspect of the judicial review. Only on the basis of the accusations, if the executive demolishes the property/properties of such an accused person without following the due process of law, it would strike at the basic principle of rule of law and is not permissible. The executive cannot become a judge and decide that a person accused is guilty and, therefore, punish him by demolishing his residential/commercial property/properties. Such an act of the executive would be transgressing its limits. 72. The chilling sight of a bulldozer demolishing a building, when authorities have failed to follow the basic principles of natural justice [2024] 11 S.C.R. 775 In Re: Directions in The Matter of Demolition of Structures and have acted without adhering to the principle of due process, reminds one of a lawless state of affairs, where “might was right”. In our constitution, which rests on the foundation of ‘the rule of law’, such high-handed and arbitrary actions have no place.