43, no.4. 37 Ibid. 38 Rochana Bajpai, supra note 18. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1771 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. 25. The discussions on the Draft Constitution, initiated by Dr. Ambedkar on 21.02.1948,intended to give special attention to minority rights.39 This then led to the insertion of ‘Special Provisions Relating to Minorities’ (Part XIV – Articles 292 to 301) into the Draft Constitution. This was in addition to the protections granted to all citizens under the Chapter of Fundamental Rights.40 The proposed Part XIV instead intended to provide political reservations for Muslims, Indian-Christians, Anglo-Indians, Scheduled Castes, and Scheduled Tribes. Additionally, it envisioned special protection for Anglo-Indians with respect to educational institutions and also addressed minority claims in the realm of public recruitment.41 Finally, it sought to include administrative checks to ensure the effective implementation and functioning of these constitutional safeguards. 26. However, these provisions sought to be incorporated under Part XIV were short-lived. The harsh realities of the communal violence following the partition of the Indian subcontinent into India and Pakistan greatly impacted one and all. The conflicts, violence, exploitation, general public dis and lawlessness during the migration exercise resulted in the deaths of almost one million people, with an estimated displacement of approximately ten to twenty million people.42 27. Naturally, the aftermath of these events sent shock waves throughout the country. It profoundly affected the Constituent Assembly and the Drafting Committee, particularly in regard to the recognition of communal minority rights.43 Prior to the Partition, the Assembly had granted religious reservations in legislative bodies. However, these reservations were done away with post-Partition.44 The prevailing sentiment was that such measures could foster separatist tendencies and were inconsistent with the principles of a Secular Democratic State. This view was also supported by various Muslim members of the 39 Rochana Bajpai, supra note 34. 40 Kamlesh Kumar Wadhwa, Minority Safeguards in India, Thomas Press (India) Limited, (1975). 41 Ibid. 42 “Partition of 1947 Continues to Haunt India, Pakistan” Stanford Report(2019) available at https://news. stanford.edu/stories/2019/03/partition-1947-continues-haunt-india-pakistan-stanford-scholar-says. 43 B Shiva Rao (ed), The Framing of India’s Constitution, Vol. I-V, Indian Institute of Public Administration, (1967). 44 Ibid. 1772 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports Constituent Assembly.45 For instance, Mohammad Ismail Khan stated:46 “[…] Because this reservation of seats would only keep alive Communalism and would be ineffectual as a safeguard for the Muslim minorities or for the matter of that for any other minorities. I congratulate the majority community, that they have not taken advantage of their superiority in numbers, by utilising this device for their own purposes. The Muslims have been thinking for some time that this reservation was wholly incompatible with responsible Government and I may say that when Provincial autonomy was introduced in the provinces for the first time the Muslims soon began to realize the separate representation was not going to be an effective safeguard for the protection of their interests […]” [Emphasis supplied] 28. Similarly, Tajamul Hussain also emphatically voiced:47 “Mr. President, Sir, reservation of seats in any shape or form and for any community or group of people is, in my opinion, absolutely wrong in principle.