33.7. In this regard, the following s of this Court may be relied upon: (a) In Ratan Singh, on discussing Section 401 of the erstwhile CrPC (corresponding to Section 432 of the present CrPC) it was observed that the test to determine the appropriate Government is to locate the State where the accused was convicted and sentenced and the Government of that State would be the appropriate Government within the meaning of Section 401 of the CrPC. In the said case, it was observed that the accused was convicted and sentenced in the State of Madhya Pradesh and though he was discharging his sentence in a jail in Amritsar in the State of Punjab, the appropriate Government under section 401 (1) of the erstwhile CrPC to exercise the discretion for remission of the sentence was the State of Madhya Pradesh. It was further observed that even under the new Code i.e. CrPC, 1973 as per sub-section (7) of Section 432 thereof, the phrase appropriate Government had the same meaning as the latter provision had been bodily lifted from Section 402(3) of the erstwhile CrPC. On a review of the case law and the statutory provisions of the CrPC the following propositions were culled out: “9. …(1) that a sentence of imprisonment for life does not automatically expire at the end of 20 years including the remissions, because the administrative rules framed under the various Jail Manuals or under the Prisons Act cannot supersede the statutory provisions of the Indian [2024] 1 S.C.R. 843 Bilkis Yakub Rasool v. Union of India & Others Penal Code. A sentence of imprisonment for life means a sentence for the entire life of the prisoner unless the appropriate Government chooses to exercise its discretion to remit either the whole or a part of the sentence under Section 401 of the Code of Criminal Procedure; (2) that the appropriate Government has the undoubted discretion to remit or refuse to remit the sentence and where it refuses to remit the sentence no writ can be issued directing the State Government to release the prisoner. (3) that the appropriate Government which is empowered to grant remission under Section 401 of the Code of Criminal Procedure is the Government of the State where the prisoner has been convicted and sentenced, that is to say, the transferor State and not the transferee State where the prisoner may have been transferred at his instance under the Transfer of Prisoners Act; and (4) that where the transferee State feels that the accused has completed a period of 20 years it has merely to forward the request of the prisoner to the concerned State Government, that is to say, the Government of the State where the prisoner was convicted and sentenced and even if this request is rejected by the State Government the of the government cannot be interfered with by a High Court in its writ jurisdiction.” (b) The aforesaid decision was reiterated in Hanumant Dass. In the said case, the incident had occurred in Dharmshala and when the matter was pending before the Sessions Court, Dharmshala in Himachal Pradesh at the instance of the complainant, on an application moved before this Court, the case was transferred from Himachal Pradesh to the Sessions Court at Gurdaspur in Punjab.