We are of the opinion that the Single Judge has appreciated the law correctly as far as the Agreement is concerned to hold it to be a mortgage in view of Section 58(f) of the Act. We have read and re-read the Agreement. We have also minutely considered the exposition of law made in Narvir Singh (supra). We are of the opinion that the Agreement only records what has happened and does not create/extinguish rights/liabilities. It would, therefore, be covered by para 14.3 of Narvir Singh (supra), as highlighted hereinbefore. The reasoning of the Division Bench proceeds as under: [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1021 A.B. Govardhan v. P. Ragothaman “10. …The recitals of the document marked as Ex.P1 and duly extracted in the does not contain any, clear admission that a mortgage was created on the property. The document proceeds as if the appellant agreed to pay a sum of Rs.11 lakhs in full and final settlement. There is nothing to show that a mortgage was created. Even in the evidence given by the respondent as P.W.1, it was his case that the parent document was handed over only as a security. Such being the evidence on record, the learned single Judge was not correct in giving a finding that mortgage was created and the title deed was given in furtherance of the mortgage. We are therefore of the view that there is no evidence adduced by the respondent to show that a mortgage deed was executed by the appellant and as such, he is entitled to a mortgage decree. …” (sic) 30. Quite evidently, the Division Bench did not account for Section 58(f) of the Act. Indubitably, the respondent pleaded threat and coercion whilst executing/signing the Agreement, yet having accepted that he did sign the same in his own hand, the burden was on him to prove such threat/coercion. Looked at from any angle, the First Impugned suffers from legal errors, and cannot withstand the scrutiny of law. At the cost of repetition, it is to be stated that the Single Judge has rightly considered the factual prism and focused on the core issue without reference to facts which were irrelevant and not germane to the issue(s) before her. 31. The Second Impugned raises serious questions about how and why the appellant went into slumber. If we may say so, a ‘fantastic’ plea was taken that the appellant had engaged a counsel only for the delay condonation MP and not to argue the main appeal. Such a contention is noted only for the purpose of outright rejection. This ‘fantastic’ plea has been dealt with correctly by the Division Bench and no legal infirmity can be found therein. 32. Alas, only if things were as simple as they seemed! We have already indicated that the First Impugned has to be set aside. In to do justice, quashing of the First Impugned would necessarily mean that the effect of the Second Impugned would get nullified, for all practical purposes, despite this Court being of the 1022 [2024] 8 S.C.R.