IV. MAINTAINABILITY 18. At the outset, it is apposite to address the issue of the maintainability of the writ petitions. It is argued by Mr. Gautam Narayan and Mr. Purvish Jitendra Malkan learned counsel that after having participated in the recruitment process, the writ petitioners having not succeeded, cannot turn around and challenge the recruitment process or the vires of the Recruitment Rules. It is submitted that all candidates knew about the prescription of minimum marks for viva voce, well before the selection process commenced and the principle of estoppel will operate against the unsuccessful challengers. On the other hand, the learned counsel representing the writ petitioners argued that the principle of estoppel would have no application when there are glaring illegalities2 in the selection process. Further, estoppel is not applicable when the arbitrariness affects fundamental rights under Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution of India3. 19. As argued by the learned counsel for the High Courts, the legal position is that after participating in the recruitment process, the 2 Raj Kumar v Shakti Raj (1997) 9 SCC 527 3 Basheshar Nath v. Commr. of Income-tax, Delhi, AIR 1959 SC 149; Olga Tellis v. Bombay Municipal Corporation, AIR 1986 SC 180; Nar Singh Pal v. Union of India and Others, 2000 3 SCC 588. [2024] 6 S.C.R. 551 Abhimeet Sinha & Ors. v. High Court of Judicature at Patna & Ors. unsuccessful candidates cannot turn around and challenge the recruitment process4. However, it is also settled that the principle of estoppel cannot override the law5. Such legal principle was reiterated by the Supreme Court in Dr.(Major) Meeta Sahai Vs. Union of India6 where it was observed as under: “17. However, we must differentiate from this principle insofar as the candidate by agreeing to participate in the selection process only accepts the prescribed procedure and not the illegality in it. In a situation where a candidate alleges misconstruction of statutory rules and discriminating consequences arising therefrom, the same cannot be condoned merely because a candidate has partaken in it. The constitutional scheme is sacrosanct and its violation in any manner is impermissible. In fact, a candidate may not have locus to assail the incurable illegality or derogation of the provisions of the Constitution, unless he/she participates in the selection process.” 20. Guided by the above ratio, in matters like this, to non-suit the writ petitioners at the threshold would hardly be reasonable particularly when the alleged deficiencies in the process could be gauged only by participation in the selection process. 21. The next question is whether the principle of res judicata is attracted in these cases. Mr. Purvish Malkan, learned counsel for the High Court of Gujarat brought to our notice that the validity of Rule 8(3) of the Gujarat Rules,2005 (as amended on 23.6.2011) was earlier challenged before the Supreme Court in WP(C) 291 of 2013. This Court after completion of pleadings transferred the said writ petition to the Gujarat High Court. Thereafter, the Gujarat High Court in a detailed in the Special Civil Application No.8793 of 2015, upheld the validity of the amendment prescribing 40% cut-off marks for interview.