They all went to the police station at about 11.00 pm in the night. He travelled in the police jeep. His statement was again recorded at the Police Station around 12’o clock or 1.00 am. 28. Learned counsel also referred to the statement of Basagonda(PW-6) who claimed to be an eye witness of the incident and urged that the witness stated about the presence of only two servants with the deceased Malagounda while he was allegedly being assaulted by the accused. Most significantly, he did not state about the presence 188 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of the complainant(PW-1) at the crime scene. PW-6 admitted in his cross-examination that he returned to his house at about 5 to 6 pm and informed about the incident to the children of his uncle and Paragouda, Shankargouda and Chanagouda(PW-1). Many people had gathered when he spoke about the incident. It was submitted that this version of PW-6 completely belies and eclipses the claim of the complainant(PW-1) that he had seen the incident with his own eyes because, if the complainant(PW-1) had himself witnessed the occurrence, there was no occasion for PW-6 to collect all the family members including the complainant(PW-1) and inform them about the incident. 29. The evidence of PW-15, another alleged eye witnesses was criticised and it was submitted that the conduct of this witness who happens to be a cousin of PW-1, in casually going away to his farmland despite witnessing the brutal assault and not taking any steps to inform the police or the close relatives clearly shows that he is a cooked up witness and was not present at the crime scene. 30. The statement of Dr. Anil Kumar(PW-17) was referred to and it was submitted that the Medical Jurist conducted autopsy upon the dead body at about 9.00 am on 20th September, 2001 and gave pertinent opinion that the time of death of the victim was 18 to 24 hours before the autopsy being carried out. In cross-examination, he admitted that decomposition had set in the dead body and that the time of death was more than 24 hours prior to the examination. Thus, it was submitted that the time of incident as portrayed in the evidence given by the so called eye witnesses is totally contradicted by the opinion of the Medical Jurist. 31. It was also contended that the Investigating Officer(PW-27) has given false evidence regarding the disclosure statements made by the accused and the recoveries of the weapons effected in furtherance thereof, because the complainant(PW-1) clearly admitted in his evidence that the police had showed him the weapons on the very day of the incident. 32. It was also contended that neither the disclosure statements nor the recovery memos bear the signatures/thumb impressions of the accused and hence, the recoveries cannot be read in evidence or attributed to the accused appellants. [2024] 5 S.C.R. 189 Babu Sahebagouda Rudragoudar and Others v. State of Karnataka 33. Learned counsel for the appellants vehemently urged that the learned Division Bench of the High Court was not justified in causing interference into the well-reasoned of acquittal rendered by the learned trial Court and reversing the acquittal of the accused appellants and that too, without recording any finding that the trial Court’s was perverse or that no view except the one warranting conviction of the accused was possible upon appreciation of evidence as available on record.