3.19. This Court noted that the policy on the date of conviction was as per the resolution dated 09.07.1992 passed by the State of Gujarat. Hence, respondent No.3 (petitioner therein) would be governed by the same. This Court placed reliance on the dictum in State of Haryana vs. Jagdish, (2010) 4 SCC 216 (“Jagdish”) to observe that the application for grant of pre- mature release will have to be considered on the basis of the policy which stood as on the date of conviction. The other pertinent findings of this Court in its and dated 13.05.2022, in Writ Petition (Crl.) No.135 of 2022 are culled out hereunder: 770 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports i. The argument advanced by the respondents – State of Gujarat therein that since the trial had been concluded in the State of Maharashtra, the ‘appropriate Government’ as referred to under Section 433 of the CrPC would be the State of Maharashtra, was rejected by this Court holding that the crime in the instant case was admittedly committed in the State of Gujarat and ordinarily, the trial would have been concluded in the same State and in terms of Section 432(7) of the CrPC, the appropriate Government in the ordinary course would have been the State of Gujarat but in the instant case, the case was transferred under exceptional circumstances by this Court for the limited purpose of trial and disposal to the State of Maharashtra. However, after the conclusion of trial and on conviction, the case stood transferred to the State where the crime was committed and the State of Gujarat remains the appropriate Government for the purpose of Section 432(7) of the CrPC. ii. This Court observed that once the crime was committed in the State of Gujarat, after the trial came to be concluded and of conviction came to be passed, all further proceedings would have to be considered, including remission or pre-mature release, as the case may be, in terms of the policy which is applicable in the State of Gujarat where the crime was committed and not the State where the trial stood transferred and concluded for exceptional reasons under the s of this Court. iii. This Court directed the State of Gujarat to consider the application of the petitioner therein for pre-mature release in terms of its policy dated 09.07.1992 which was applicable on the date of conviction. 3.20. Pursuant to the of this Court dated 13.05.2022, a meeting of the Jail Advisory Committee of the State of Gujarat took place on 26.05.2022 and all the members recommended grant of remission to respondent Nos.3 to 13. 3.21. The Sessions Judge, Godhra, also considered the applications of respondent Nos.3 to 13 and upon going through the particulars provided by the Jail Superintendent, Sub-Jail, Godhra noted that [2024] 1 S.C.R. 771 Bilkis Yakub Rasool v. Union of India & Others the said report recorded that the convicts had demonstrated good behavior and conduct during the period of incarceration and that no adverse incident had been recorded against the convicts even when they were on furlough or on parole, except against one convict, namely, Mitesh Chimanlal Bhatt.