Digital Supreme Court Reports (c) under clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 13 unless the application is made within three years from the date on which the fare or freight is paid to the railway administration: Provided that no application for any claim referred to in sub-clause (i) of clause (a) of sub-section (1) of section 13 shall be preferred to the Claims Tribunal until the expiration of three months next after the date on which the intimation of the claim has been preferred under section 78B of the Railways Act. (2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), an application may be entertained after the period specified in sub-section (1) if the applicant satisfies the Claims Tribunal that he had sufficient cause for not making the application within such period.” ii. Scope of Section 106 of the Railways Act, 1989 34. In the present lis, we are concerned with Section 106 of the Act, 1989, which is pari-materia to Section 78B of the erstwhile Act, 1890. Section 106 deals with notice for claim of compensation and refund of overcharge. The said provision reads as under: - “106. Notice of claim for compensation and refund of overcharge. – (1) A person shall not be entitled to claim compensation against a railway administration for the loss, destruction, damage, deterioration or non-delivery of goods carried by railway, unless a notice thereof is served by him or on his behalf,— (a) to the railway administration to which the goods are entrusted for carriage; or (b) to the railway administration on whose railway the destination station lies, or the loss, destruction, damage or deterioration occurs. within a period of six-months from the date of entrustment of the goods. (2) Any information demanded or enquiry made in writing from, or any complaint made in writing to, any of the [2024] 3 S.C.R. 1087 Union of India v. M/s Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. railway administrations mentioned in sub-section (1) by or on behalf of the person within the said period of six months regarding the non-delivery or delayed delivery of the goods with particulars sufficient to identify the goods shall, for the purpose of this section, be deemed to be a notice of claim for compensation. (3) A person shall not be entitled to a refund of an overcharge in respect of goods carried by railway unless a notice therefor has been served by him or on his behalf to the railway administration to which the overcharge has been paid within six months from the date of such payment or the date of delivery of such goods at the destination station, whichever is later.” 35. A close reading of the aforesaid provision would indicate that Section 106 of the Act, 1989 is in two-parts and deals with and encompasses two distinct types of claims that may be made or sought against the railway administration by way of a notice: - (i) First¸ the claims towards the ‘compensation’ from the railway administration which has been provided under Section 106 sub-section (1).