[2024] 7 S.C.R. 2339 Md. Rahim Ali @ Abdur Rahim v. The State of Assam & Ors. under Section 18 of the Citizenship Act, 1955 (hereinafter referred to as the “Citizenship Act”), the right to appeal before the Tribunal under Paragraph 8 would not be available to persons whose nationality and citizenship status, either as an Indian or as a foreign national, has already been adjudicated and declared under the Foreigners (Tribunal) , 1964 (hereinafter referred to as the “1964 ”) issued under Section 3 of the Act. In the present case, it is not in dispute that the matter was decided by the Tribunal and at the first round, the verdict was against the appellant based on an ex-parte proceeding. Later, in view of the interim of this Court, after giving an opportunity to the appellant, the matter was again gone into by the Tribunal and a report submitted to this Court which reiterated its earlier decision that the appellant is a foreigner. 23. Thus, the Court, for completeness of adjudication, has to trace its steps back to the proceeding right to the stage of inception i.e., the very initiation of proceedings before the Tribunal under the Act. 24. A reference to Section 6A of the Citizenship Act is warranted: “6A. Special provisions as to citizenship of persons covered by the Assam Accord.―(1) For the purposes of this section (a) “Assam” means the territories included in the State of Assam immediately before the commencement of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 1985 (65 of 1985); b) “detected to be a foreigner” means detected to be a foreigner in accordance with the provisions of the Foreigners Act, 1946 (31 of 1946) and the Foreigners (Tribunals) , 1964 by a Tribunal constituted under the said ; c) “specified territory” means the territories included in Bangladesh immediately before the commencement of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 1985 (65 of 1985); (d) a person shall be deemed to be Indian origin, if he, or either of his parents or any of his grandparents was born in undivided India; (e) a person shall be deemed to have been detected to be a foreigner on the date on which a Tribunal constituted under the Foreigners (Tribunals) , 1964 submits its 2340 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports opinion to the effect that he is a foreigner to the officer or authority concerned. (2) Subject to the provisions of sub-sections (6) and (7), all persons of Indian origin who came before the lst day of January, 1966 to Assam from the specified territory (including such of those whose names were included in the electoral rolls used for the purposes of the General Election to the House of the People held in 1967) and who have been ordinarily resident in Assam since the dates of their entry into Assam shall be deemed to be citizens of India as from the lst day of January, 1966. (3) Subject to the provisions of sub-sections (6) and (7), every person of Indian origin who― (a) came to Assam on or after the lst day of January, 1966 but before the 25th day of March, 1971 from the specified territory; and (b) has, since the date of his entry into Assam, been ordinarily resident in Assam; and (c) has been detected to be a foreigner; shall register himself in accordance with the rules made by the Central Government in this behalf under section 18 with such authority (hereafter in this sub-section referred to as the registering authority) as may be specified in such rules and if his name is included in any electoral roll for any Assembly or Parliamentary constituency in force on the date of such detection, his name shall be deleted therefrom.