Kraipak (supra) and Reference under Article 317(1) of the Constitution of India, In Re (2009) 1 SCC 337. They prayed for the dismissal of the appeals. The intervenors have also filed written statements supporting the State and reiterating the submissions that natural justice did not cause any prejudice. Questions for consideration: 34. On the above factual background, the following questions arise for consideration:- i) Were the principles of natural justice violated, during the conduct of the proceedings before the Collector under Rule 3 of the A&R Rules, 1995 read with Rule 12 of the Recruitment Rules? ii) If indeed there was a violation of the audi alteram partem rule, would the appellants still fail for want of demonstration of any prejudice being caused to them? iii) Further, if indeed there was violation of the audi alteram partem rule before the Collector, did the violation stand cured on [2024] 4 S.C.R. 209 Krishnadatt Awasthy v. State of Madhya Pradesh & Ors. account of the availment of the revisional proceedings before the higher authority? iv) On facts, are the appellants entitled to a declaration of the invalidity of the s setting aside their appointments to the post of Shiksha Karmi Grade-III? Question Nos. 1 & 2: i) Were the principles of natural justice violated, during the conduct of the proceedings before the Collector under Rule 3 of the A&R Rules, 1995 read with Rule 12 of the Recruitment Rules? ii) If indeed there was a violation of the audi alteram partem rule, would the appellants still fail for want of demonstration of any prejudice being caused to them? 35. It is an undisputed factual position that the appellants, after a process of selection, were appointed as Shiksha Karmi Grade-III in the Panchayat and s of appointments were issued to them on 17.09.1998. It is also undisputed that the appellants joined the post and started discharging their duties. This being the undisputed factual position, when Archana Mishra (R-4) challenged the selection and the consequential appointment, there was an obligation on her part, under Rule 9, to implead the selected candidates whose selection she was expressly challenging. At least at the stage when the Collector identified all the 14 names, Rule 9 of the A&R Rules, ought to have been complied with and notices ought to have been issued giving an opportunity to the selected candidates to set out their version and thereafter hold such enquiry as the Collector may deem necessary. This was also not done. This is all the more when only the appointment of the 14 candidates of the 249 appointees/ candidates were set aside on the ground that they were relatives and it was not a case of setting aside of the entire selection. It is well settled that in service matters when an unsuccessful candidate challenges the selection process, in a case like the present where the specific grievance was against 14 candidates under the category of relatives and when the overall figure was only 249, at least the candidates against whom specific allegations were made and who were identified ought to have been given notices and made a party.