[Explanation.—A document purporting or operating to effect a contract for the sale of immovable property shall not be deemed to require or ever to have required registration by reason only of the fact that such document contains a recital of the payment of any earnest money or of the whole or any part of the purchase money.] (3) Authorities to adopt a son, executed after the 1st day of January, 1872, and not conferred by a will, shall also be registered.” It is thus, clear from the above that Section 17(1) of the Act, 1908 specifies the documents for which Registration is compulsory. Sub- section (2) of Section 17 carves out the exceptions. The documents/ instruments enumerated in sub-section (2) of section 17 are not compulsorily registerable. The exemption for decree or of the Court is covered under section 17(2)(vi) of the Act, 1908 with a rider. Under the said provision, any decree or of a Court (except the decree or expressed to be made on compromise and comprising immovable property other than that which is the subject-matter of the suit or proceedings) would not require compulsory registration. Section 17(2)(vi) carves out the distinction between the property which forms subject-matter of the suit and the property that was not the subject-matter of the suit, but for which a compromise has been arrived at. It would be relevant to point out that the provision permitting the compromise between the parties to include in the 1220 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports compromise decree, the subject matter not forming part of the suit property was introduced with effect from 01.02.1977. Prior to that, the compromise decree can be passed only with respect to properties or subject matter of suit. If a compromise decree involves immovable property other than the property for which a decree is prayed for, such a property would not be exempted and would require registration. This condition or the exclusion clause was introduced in the Registration Act, 1908 by Act 21 of 1929 by substituting for “and any award”. To avail the exemption from the mandate of compulsory registration of documents conveying immovable property of a value of more that Rs 100/-, the compromise decree arrived must be only in respect of the property that is the subject-matter of the suit. The compromise arrived at before the Lok Adalat and the award passed by the Lok Adalat thereto assume the character of a decree passed under XXIII Rule 3 and would also come within the ambit and purview of sub-section (2) of section 17 of the Act, 1908. 8. In the present case, seemingly, the appellant preferred Civil Suit No. 47-A/2013 against the respondents for declaration and permanent injunction claiming ownership and continuous possession over the subject land, and the same came to be decreed in favour of him, in view of the compromise arrived at between the appellant and the Respondent No.2 on 30.11.2013. For better appreciation, the passed in the said suit is extracted below: Dt. 30.11.13 Both parties having presented an application have requested to take up the case in National Lok Adalat for disposal.