This was on 27-2-2011. xxx xxx xxx 8. Birla Cement Works was a case where the petitioner therein (i.e., Birla Cement Works) came to know of the alleged excess amount of freight on wrong calculation of distance through a letter dated 12-10-1990 issued by the Railway Authorities. This primary fact is conspicuously absent in the present case. In the present case what was paid was as per the fixed rate on the basis of notified distance which subsequently was corrected by another Notification upon introduction of the Terminal Mechanism System (TMS) at Asaudah Railway Station, District Rohtak, Haryana. 9. On the other hand, in West Coast Paper Mills Ltd., this Court in para 20 of the said Report took the view as the freight paid was as per the rates notified the case would not be one of overcharge at all/ If that is the view taken by this Court on an interpretation of the pari materia provision in erstwhile Act i.e., the Railway Act, 1890 (i.e., Section 78-B) we do not see why, in the facts of the present case 1106 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports which are largely identical, we should be taking any other view in the matter.” (Emphasis supplied) 57. In Union of India v. Mineral Enterprises reported in (2019) SCC OnLine Kar 1971, the Karnataka High Court was dealing with a matter where the actual distance between the two stations was less than what was charged by the railways. The Karnataka High Court in the said case held that the excess freight collected by the railways on a chargeable distance more than the prescribed distance was an overcharge within the meaning of Section 106 of the Act, 1989. The relevant observations read as under: - “3. [...] The facts briefly stated are that the respondent M/s Mineral Enterprises Pvt. Ltd., was transporting the minerals through the appellant railways from Ammasandra to Panamburu as per the rates fixed for transportation of the consignment. The distance from Ammasandra Railway Station to Panamburu was calculated as 365 Kms. and freight was charged as per the rate fixed by the railways. The freight charges were dependent on the distance between the place of loading and unloading of consignment. Later, on enquiry it was learnt that the actual distance between Ammasandra Railway Station to Panamburu post is only 359 Kms. and not 365 Kms. as charged by the appellant railways. Therefore, the respondent Company made correspondence with the railways through letters dated 3.10.2006, 5.5.2007 and 20.07.2007 requesting to take corrective action. [...] xxx xxx xxx 14. It is and admitted fact that the respondent Company had transported the irone ore fines / minerals through the railways for the period from 25.05.2006 to 04.01.2007 at the rates fixed by the railway. The main controversy was in respect of refund of excess freight charges said to have been collected by the railways than the prescribed rates fixed on the basis of distance. In that connection the respondent Company had sought for clarification about the actual distance for which the appellant railways gave the reply.