[2024] 6 S.C.R. 429 : 2024 INSC 392 Union of India & Ors. v. Santosh Kumar Tiwari (Civil Appeal No. 6135 of 2024) 08 May 2024 [Dr. D. Y. Chandrachud, CJI, J. B. Pardiwala and Manoj Misra,* JJ.] Issue for Consideration Whether Rule 27 of the Central Reserve Police Force Rules, 1955 to the extent it provides for punishments other than those specified in Section 11 of the Central Reserve Police Force Act, 1949, is ultra vires the CRPF Act and as such inoperable and void; whether the punishment of compulsory retirement from service could have been imposed upon the respondent (a Head Constable in CRPF) by relying upon the provisions of Rule 27 of the CRPF Rules; whether the punishment of compulsory retirement imposed suffers from any procedural infirmity and / or is shockingly disproportionate to the proven misconduct of the respondent. Headnotes† Central Reserve Police Force Rules, 1955 – Rule 27 – Central Reserve Police Force Act, 1949 – Section 11 – Punishment of compulsory retirement prescribed in Rule 27, if ultra vires the CRPF Act: Held: The rule-making power of the Central Government found in Section 18 is in broad terms – The Central Government is not only empowered to make rules for regulating the award of minor punishment under Section 11 but also to carry out the purposes of the Act which includes superintendence of, and control over, the Force as well as its administration – The delegate cannot override the Act either by exceeding the authority or by making provisions inconsistent with the Act however, when the enabling Act itself permits its modification by rules, the rules made prevail over the provision in the Act – While enacting the CRPF Act the legislative intent was not to declare that only those minor punishments could be imposed as are specified in Section 11 of the CRPF Act – Rather, it was left open for the Central Government to frame rules to carry out the purposes of the Act * Author 430 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports and the punishments imposable were subject to the rules framed under the Act – Section 8 vests the superintendence and control over the Force in the Central Government – ‘Control’ is a word of wide amplitude and includes disciplinary control – Therefore, if the CRPF Act envisages vesting of control over the Force in the Central Government and the various punishments imposable under Section 11 are subject to the rules made under the Act, the Central Government in exercise of its general rule-making power, to ensure full and effective control over the Force, can prescribe punishments other than those specified in that section, including the punishment of compulsory retirement – To keep the Force efficient, weeding out undesirable elements therefrom is essential and is a facet of control over the Force, which the Central Government has over the Force by virtue of Section 8 of the CRPF Act – Thus, to ensure effective control over the Force, if rules are framed, in exercise of general rule-making power, prescribing the punishment of compulsory retirement, the same cannot be said to be ultra vires Section 11 of the CRPF Act, particularly when sub-section (1) of Section 11 clearly mentions that the power exercisable therein is subject to any rules made under the Act – The punishment of compulsory retirement prescribed by Rule 27 is intra vires the CRPF Act and is one of the punishments imposable – In the present case, respondent was part of a disciplined force and was found guilty of assaulting his colleague – Punishment awarded not shockingly disproportionate to the proven misconduct – Rather, considering his past service, already a sympathetic view was taken in the matter and no further latitude needs be shown – The punishment of compulsory retirement awarded to the respondent is affirmed – Impugned of the High Court set aside.