(ii) In terms of direction contained in para 100.7, it appears that there is 1 vacancy out of 74 in Bihar Prohibition and Excise Courts and 3 out of 14 in Schedule Castes and Scheduled Tribes Courts. However, no further information is provided for filling the said vacancies. Therefore, it is directed that the State 1082 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports shall provide details of the same and also about the Special Courts constituted and the necessary steps taken for creation of Additional Special Courts and its stage. (iii) Compliance with dated 21.03.2023 passed by this Court: (a) To train and update the prosecutors on a periodical basis and provide details of the same. 5.1 High Court of Patna -Directions to be complied with: (i) In terms of direction contained in para 100.2, it is directed to provide the particulars of First Information Reports of cognizable and non-bailable cases in which the mandate of Sections 41, 41-A of CrPC and Arnesh Kumar (Supra) has not been followed and consequently to provide the details of necessary actions that have been taken against erring police officers. Also, in terms of direction contained in para 100.2, information has to be provided as to whether the Standing is being complied with by Investigating Officers. (ii) There is part compliance of the directions issued in para 100.3, 100.5, and 100.11 in districts such as Aurangabad, Aaria and Banka. Therefore, it is directed that a complete compliance shall be made in respect of these paragraphs and districts thereof. (iii) So far as para 100.6 is concerned, it is reported that certain districts such as Bhagalpur, Munger, Patna, and Chappra are not in compliance. Therefore, it is directed that compliance for the same shall be made. (iv) In terms of direction contained in para 100.7, it is directed that the High Court shall provide details of Special Courts constituted and the necessary steps taken for creation of Additional Special Courts and its stage. The High Court is also directed to inform about the steps being undertaken to fill the existing vacancies. (v) As per the report, the directions contained in para 100.9 has been partly complied with. Therefore, it is directed that necessary steps shall be taken to ensure complete compliance of this direction. (vi) The direction contained in para 100.10 is not complied with in District Bhagalpur, Munger, Gopalganj, Patna and Chappra. Therefore, necessary steps shall be taken to ensure complete compliance. [2024] 2 S.C.R. 1083 Satender Kumar Antil v. Central Bureau of Investigation and Anr. (vii) In terms of direction contained in dated 03.02.2023, the High Court should inform on compliance for inclusion of Siddharth (Supra) and Satender Kumar Antil (Supra) in the curriculum of judicial academy. (viii) To inform on whether the in Satender Kumar Antil (Supra) is being applied to petitions under Section 438 of CrPC. 6. Union Territory of Chandigarh -Directions to be complied with: (i) In terms of direction contained in para 100.2, it is directed to provide the particulars of First Information Reports of cognizable and non-bailable cases in which the mandate of Sections 41, 41-A of CrPC and Arnesh Kumar (Supra) has not been followed and consequently to provide the details of necessary actions that have been taken against erring police officers.