68. This Court in the said case, in paragraph 20, further observed that the entire Act shall be read as a whole. It has been held that, all the discordant notes struck by the various sections must be harmonized. It has been held that, considering the fact that the non obstante clause advisedly restricts itself to Section 62, there is no reason to put Section 79 out of the way altogether. It has been held that, either under Section 62, or under Section 63, the general regulatory power of the Commission under Section 79(1)(b) is the source of the power to regulate, which includes the power to determine or adopt tariff. It has been held that, Sections 62 and 63 deal with “determination” of tariff, which is part of “regulating” tariff. It has further been held that, in a situation where the guidelines issued by the Central Government under Section 63 cover the situation, the Central Commission is bound by those guidelines and must exercise its regulatory functions, albeit under Section 79(1)(b), only in accordance with those guidelines. It has further been held that, it is only in a situation where there are no guidelines framed at all or where the guidelines do not deal with a given situation that the Commission’s general regulatory powers under Section 79(1)(b) can be used. 69. The aforesaid view of this Court in the case of Energy Watchdog (supra), which is a delivered by two Judge Bench, has been approved by three Judge Bench of this Court in the case of Tata Power Company Limited Transmission (supra). 70. We have already referred to Section 86(1)(b) of the Electricity Act, which is analogous to Section 79 of the Electricity Act. Section 79 determines the functions of Central Commission, whereas Section 86 provides for the functions of the State Commission. Section 86 of the Electricity Act empowers the State Commission to regulate electricity purchase and procurement process of distribution licensees including the price at which electricity shall be procured from the generating companies or licensees or from other sources through agreements for purchase of power for distribution and supply within the State. 948 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 71. It can thus be seen that Section 86(1)(b) of the Electricity Act gives ample power on the State Commission to regulate electricity purchase and procurement process of distribution licensees. It also empowers the State Commission to regulate the matters including the price at which electricity shall be procured from the generating companies, etc. 72. It will also be relevant to refer to the Bidding Guidelines notified by the Central Government vide Resolution dated 19th January 2005. The preamble of the Bidding Guidelines specifically states that, one of the objectives of the said Bidding Guidelines is to facilitate transparency and fairness in procurement processes and protection of consumer interests by facilitating competitive conditions in procurement of electricity. 73. Clause 5.15 of the Bidding Guidelines is an important clause. It provides that, the bidder who has quoted lowest levelized tariff as per evaluation procedure, shall be considered for the award.