32 is clearly maintainable – It was not mandatory for the petitioner to have filed a writ petition u/ Art. 226 before the Gujarat High Court – Petitioner-Bilkis Bano filed writ petition u/Art. 32 to enforce her fundamental rights u/ Art. 21 and Art. 14 – Access to justice includes speedy remedy, the petition could not be dismissed on the ground of availability of an alternative remedy u/Art. 226 – Furthermore, in view of the submission regarding the State of Gujarat not being the competent State to consider the validity of the s of remission in a petition filed u/Art. 226, particularly, when the question of competency was raised, could not have been dealt with by the Gujarat High Court on the principle of judicial propriety. [Paras 22.2-22.3, 56] Constitution of India – Art. 32 – Public interest litigation – Bilkis Bano matter – Writ petition filed as public interest litigation challenging the of State of Gujarat granting remission in favour of convicts guilty of committing heinous crimes of gangrape, murder and rioting armed with deadly weapons during the large-scale riots in Gujarat in the aftermath of the Godhra train burning incident – Maintainability: Held: Writ petitions filed as public interest litigation assailing the impugned s of remission dated 10.08.2022 are maintainable or not, is kept open to be raised in any other appropriate case – It is not necessary to answer the point regarding maintainability of the PILs inasmuch as one of the victims, also filed a writ petition [2024] 1 S.C.R. 745 Bilkis Yakub Rasool v. Union of India & Others invoking Art. 32 assailing the s of remission which has been held to be maintainable – Consideration of that petition on its merits would suffice in the instant case. [Paras 27, 56] Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 – ss. 432, 433, 433A and 435 – Bilkis Bano matter – Grant of remission – Investigation transferred to CBI by this Court – Thereafter, trial of the case pending before the Sessions Judge, Dahod, Ahmedabad transferred to the competent court in Mumbai – 11 accused convicted for offence of gangrape and murder by Mumbai court which was upheld by the High Court and this Court – One of the victims, respondent no. 3 challenged the non-consideration of his application for premature release u/ss.433 and 433A before the Gujarat High Court – High Court held that since the trial had taken place in the State of Maharashtra, the ‘appropriate government’ would be the State of Maharashtra and not the Government of Gujarat to grant remission – Application for remission moved before the Government of Maharashtra, who sought opinion of CBI and Special CBI court which opined against premature release in view of the remission policy, as also against other convicts remission applications – Thereafter, respondent no. 3 filed writ petition before this Court seeking direction to the State of Gujarat to consider his application for pre-mature release under its policy of 1992 – Issuance of direction by this Court by dated 13.05.2022, to the State of Gujarat to consider the application for pre mature release in terms of the policy of 1992, being the appropriate government – Subsequently, the State of Gujarat issued s dated 10.08.22 granting remission and early release of 11 convicts – Government of State of Gujarat, if competent to pass the impugned s of remission: Held: When an authority does not have the jurisdiction to deal with a matter or it is not within the powers of the authority i.e.