However, the mother and wife of PW-1 were never examined as witnesses by the prosecution. This glaring mistake raises a serious doubt on the very existence of a confession, or even a statement, of this nature by the appellant. 18. Once the appellant was taken to the police station, as the examination in chief of PW-1, the appellant confessed to the act of throwing the deceased in the well along with accused no. 2 and 3. Notably, there was no mention of the co-accused persons in the original statement of the appellant, as per the examination in chief of PW-1. One finds a third version of the same fact when the complaint Ex.P1 is perused. The said complaint was given by PW-1 at the police station of 15.11.2002. As per this complaint, the appellant was queried by PW-1 and his mother (presence of wife not mentioned). Furthermore, as per the complaint, the appellant confessed to the commission of offence along with one other accused (accused no.2) only. The complaint Ex.P1 is also silent on the episode that took place at the residence of PW-1 on 14.11.2002, a day prior to the filing of complaint. There is no explanation as to how and in what circumstances the incident of 14.11.2002 was omitted from Ex.P1. The omission assumes great importance in light of the fact that the incident of 14.11.2002 was the precursor of the confrontation that followed the next day, which culminated into the act of filing the complaint. The complaint Ex.P1 is also silent on the information received by PW-1 from PW-5 and PW-6 that they had seen his child going with the appellant on the date of incident. The introduction of these witnesses was an exercise of improvement, as we shall see in the following discussion. 19. The confession was followed by two things – arrest of the appellant and recovery of dead body of the deceased. The evidentiary aspects concerning these facts are equally doubtful. As per the testimony of PW-1, he had taken the appellant to the police station and he was arrested there. Contrarily, PW-16/I.O. deposed that after recording [2024] 2 S.C.R. 403 Kalinga @ Kushal v. State of Karnataka By Police Inspector Hubli the complaint, he had arrested the appellant from his house. The mode and manner of arrest, especially the place of arrest, is doubtful. It also raises a question on the aspect of confession - whether the confession was recorded when the appellant himself visited the police station with PW-1 or when he was arrested from his house and was taken to the police station by PW-16. The confessions, one made after a voluntary visit to the police station and the other made after arrest from the house, stand on materially different footings from the point of view of voluntariness. The likelihood of the latter being voluntary is fairly lesser in comparison to the former. 20. The next element which weighed upon the High Court in reversing acquittal is the recovery of dead body of the deceased at the instance of the appellant.