'” Traditionally, Article 14 was understood to only guarantee non-discrimination. In this context, Courts held that Article 14 does not forbid all classifications but only that which is discriminatory. In State of West Bengal v. Anwar Ali Sarkar,'®° Justice 5 R Das (as the learned Chief Justice then was) laid down the following two conditions which a legislation must satisfy to get over the inhibition of Article 14: first, the classification must be founded on an intelligible differentia which distinguishes those that are grouped together from others; and second, the differentia must have a rational relation to the object sought to be achieved 179 Basheshar Nath v. CIT, [19Sup5p 19 SC]R 5 28 180 [1915 S2CR ]28 4 : (1951) 1 SCC 1; Also see State of Bombay v. FN Balsara, [1915 S1CR ]68 2 [2024] 2 S.C.R. 541 Association for Democratic Reforms & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. by the legislation. In the ensuing years, this Court followed this “traditional approach” to test the constitutionality of a legislation on the touchstone of Article 14.18! 182. In E P Royappa v. State of Tamil Nadu,'*? this Court expanded the ambit of Article 14 by laying down non-arbitrariness as a limiting principle in the context of executive actions. Justice P N Bhagwati (as the learned Chief Justice then was), speaking for the Bench, observed that equality is a dynamic concept with many aspects and dimensions which cannot be confined within traditional and doctrinaire limits. The opinion declared that equality is antithetic to arbitrariness, further finding that equality belongs to the rule of law in a republic, while arbitrariness belongs to the whim and caprice of an absolute monarch. In Ajay Hasia v. Khalid Mujib Seheravardi,'* a Constitution Bench of this Court considered it to be well settled that any action that is arbitrary necessarily involves negation of equality. Justice Bhagwati observed that the doctrine of non-arbitrariness can also be extended to a legislative action. He observed that: “[w]herever therefore there is arbitrariness in State action whether it be of the legislature or of the executive or of an “authority” under Article 12, Article 14 immediately springs into action and strikes down such State action.” 183. Immediately after the in Ajay Hasia (supra), Justice E S Venkataramaiah (as the learned Chief Justice then was) in Indian Express Newspapers (Bombay) (P) Ltd. v. Union of India,'* laid down the test of manifest arbitrariness with respect to subordinate legislation. It was held that a subordinate legislation does not carry the same degree of immunity enjoyed by a statute passed by a competent legislature. Therefore, this Court held that a subordinate legislation “may also be questioned on the ground that it is unreasonable, unreasonable not in the sense of not being reasonable, but in the sense that it is manifestly arbitrary.” 181 Kathi Raning Rawat v. State of Saurashtra, [1915 S2CR ]43 5 : (1952) 1 SCC 215; Budhan Chowdhury v. State of Bihar, [1915 SC5R ]104 5; Ram Krishna Dalmia v. S R Tendolkar, [195SC9R ]27 9.