As soon as there is any material to indicate that the storage or possession of any child pornographic material was done in lieu or in expectation of some form of gain or benefit, it would constitute an offence under Section 15 sub-section (3) of the POCSO notwithstanding whether such gain was actually realized. 95. Thus, while Section 15 sub-section (1) requires the existence of the requisite mens rea or intention due to which the child pornographic material was not deleted, destroyed or reported, Section 15 sub- section (2) requires the existence of the requisite mens rea or intention which propelled or led the person accused to not only store or possess the said material but also to take some additional steps towards either the actual transmission, propagation, display or distribution or the facilitation of the same. In contrast, Section 15 sub-section (3) requires the existence of the requisite mens rea or intention due to which the person accused not only stored or possessed the child pornographic material but also compelled him to take some additional steps either for any gain or benefit or in lieu or expectation of some form of gain or benefit. 96. For the sake of clarity, it would be apposite to give few illustrations as a guiding example to further demonstrate the fine but pertinent distinction that exists between sub-section (1), (2) and (3) of Section 15 of the POCSO. 97. For illustration; say certain child pornographic material was found stored in the personal mobile phone of ‘A’ and the same was neither deleted, destroyed nor reported. Here though there is possession or storage of child pornographic material but since there is nothing to show any facilitation of transmission, propagation, display or distribution of the said material, this would attract the provision of Section 15(1). At the same time, since the material in question was found in the personal mobile of ‘A’ the same is indicative that the omission to either delete, destroy or report in all likelihood was due to the intent to share or transmit. Here the manner in which the omission has occurred is sufficiently indicative of the intent to share or transmit, as there is nothing apart to show that the omission was [2024] 10 S.C.R. 225 Just Rights for Children Alliance & Anr. v. S. Harish & Ors. attributable to any other reason but the intent to share or transmit, and thus it would constitute an offence under Section 15(1) of the POCSO. 98. Conversely, say for example certain child pornographic material was found stored in a broken mobile phone of ‘A’ and the said material had never been deleted, destroyed or reported. Now again, there is nothing to show that there was either any actual transmission, propagation, display or distribution nor anything to show that something apart from and in addition to the storage or possession had been done by ‘A’ for facilitation of the transmission, propagation, display or distribution of such material. This would again attract the provision of Section 15(1) instead of 15(2) of the POCSO.