Allowing the use of a scribe, this Court held that the benchmark standard can only be applied where expressly stipulated. Section 2(s) of the RPWD Act defines a person with disability as a person with long term physical, mental, intellectual or sensory impairment which, in interaction with barriers, hinders their full and effective participation in society equally with others. Therefore, a person - to be considered as a person with disability - does not have to qualify any benchmark. The principle that the rights and entitlements cannot be constricted by adopting a benchmark as a condition precedent was also upheld by this Court in Avni Prakash v. NTA.15 30. Section 3 of the RPWD Act affords persons with disabilities a right to equality and non-discrimination. In Vikash Kumar (supra) this Court held that Section 3 casts an affirmative obligation on the Government and private entities to take steps to ensure reasonable accommodation and utilize the capacity of persons with disabilities by providing an appropriate environment. There is a positive obligation to realise the inclusive premise in the concept of reasonable accommodation. This includes the duty to create an environment conducive for the development of persons with disabilities. This Court has held that: “... The accommodation which the law mandates is ‘reasonable’ because it has to be tailored to the requirements of each condition of disability. The expectations which every disabled person has are unique 14 [2021] 12 SCR 311 : (2021) 5 SCC 370 15 [2021] 11 SCR 891 : (2023) 2 SCC 286 [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2209 Om Rathod v. The Director General of Health Services & Ors. to the nature of the disability and the character of the impediments which are encountered as its consequence. ... 48. Failure to meet the individual needs of every disabled person will breach the norm of reasonable accommodation. Flexibility in answering individual needs and requirements is essential to reasonable accommodation. The principle of reasonable accommodation must also account for the fact that disability based discrimination is intersectional in nature. The intersectional features arise in particular contexts due to the presence of multiple disabilities and multiple consequences arising from disability. Disability therefore cannot be truly understood by regarding it as unidimensional.” (emphasis supplied) 31. In Ravinder Kumar Dhariwal v. Union of India,16 while dealing with a case of a CRPF officer with a mental health condition, this Court had the opportunity to opine that disability is a social construct. Its manifestation is contingent on the manner in which it interacts with inter alia social, economic and historical factors. A one-size-fits-all approach cannot be adopted in assessing disability. Disability is not a universal but an individualistic conception based on the impairments that a person has along with the barriers they face. Since the barriers that every person faces are personal to their interpersonal and structural surroundings - a general observation of permissible behaviour cannot be made. 32. Central to the principles of reasonable accommodation and the individualized experience of disability is the right to access legal protections without undue mental hardship.