The offence of bribery is agnostic to the performance of the agreed action and crystallizes based on the exchange of illegal gratification. The minority also highlighted the prima facie absurdity in the paradox created by the majority . Agarwal, J observed that: “47. […] If the construction placed by Shri Rao on the expression “in respect of” is adopted, a Member would be liable to be prosecuted on a charge of bribery if he accepts bribe for not speaking or for not giving his vote on a matter under consideration before the House but [2024] 3 S.C.R. 543 Sita Soren v. Union of India he would enjoy immunity from prosecution for such a charge if he accepts bribe for speaking or giving his vote in Parliament in a particular manner and he speaks or gives his vote in Parliament in that manner. It is difficult to conceive that the framers of the Constitution intended to make such a distinction in the matter of grant of immunity between a Member of Parliament who receives bribe for speaking or giving his vote in Parliament in a particular manner and speaks or gives his vote in that manner and a Member of Parliament who receives bribe for not speaking or not giving his vote on a particular matter coming up before the House and does not speak or give his vote as per the agreement so as to confer an immunity from prosecution on charge of bribery on the former but denying such immunity to the latter. Such an anomalous situation would be avoided if the words “in respect of” in Article 105(2) are construed to mean “arising out of” […]” (emphasis supplied) 126. Indeed, to read Articles 105(2) and 194(2) in the manner proposed in the majority results in a paradoxical outcome. Such an interpretation results in a situation where a legislator is rewarded with immunity when they accept a bribe and follow through by voting in the agreed direction. On the other hand, a legislator who agrees to accept a bribe, but may eventually decide to vote independently will be prosecuted. Such an interpretation belies not only the text of Articles 105 and 194 but also the purpose of conferring parliamentary privilege on members of the legislature. H. International position on bribery vis-à-vis privileges 127. The above exposition has sought to elucidate the law governing the subject of parliamentary privileges in India and its implications on a member of the legislature engaging in bribery. It has been the leitmotif of most s on the subject in India to delve into the law in other jurisdictions before outlining the position of parliamentary privileges in India. The jurisprudence on parliamentary privileges in India has since grown in its own right and we have referred to the rich jurisprudence of this Court and the history of parliamentary 544 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports privileges in India. However, since both the majority and the minority s in PV Narasimha Rao (supra) have relied heavily on jurisprudence in foreign jurisdictions, it is appropriate to lay out, in brief, the evolution and position of the law on privileges as it relates to the issue of a bribe received by a member of Parliament in other jurisdictions.