In the latter case, the petitioners sought to challenge the unamended Article 31-C that had already been partly upheld and partly invalidated in Kesavananda Bharati. 54 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 42. The Constitution Bench of five judges of this Court in Minerva Mills invalidated Section 4 of the Forty-Second Amendment.39 Chief Justice YV Chandrachud, speaking for the majority held: “58. … On any reasonable interpretation, there can be no doubt that by the amendment introduced by Section 4 of the 42nd Amendment, Articles 14 and 19 stand abrogated at least in regard to the category of laws described in Article 31-C. The startling consequence which the amendment has produced is that even if a law is in total defiance of the mandate of Article 13 read with Articles 14 and 19, its validity will not be open to question so long as its object is to secure a directive principle of State policy. […] A large majority of laws, the bulk of them, can at any rate be easily justified as having been passed for the purpose of giving effect to the policy of that State towards securing some principle or the other laid down in Part IV. In respect of such laws, which will cover an extensive gamut of the relevant legislative activity, the protection of Articles 14 and 19 will stand wholly withdrawn…” Chief Justice YV Chandrachud noted that the amendment to Article 31-C provided immunity to a sweeping range of legislation and the threshold for availing of such immunity was remarkably low. This severely undermined the protections granted to citizens by Articles 14 and 19. This reasoning led the majority in Minerva Mills to conclude that: “75.…Section 4 of the Constitution (Forty-second Amendment) Act is beyond the amending power of the Parliament and is void since it damages the basic or essential features of the Constitution and destroys its basic structure to the total exclusion of challenge to any law on the ground that it is inconsistent with, or takes away or abridges any of the rights conferred by Article 14 or Article 19 of the Constitution, if the law is for giving effect to the policy of the State towards securing all or any of the principles laid down in Part IV of the Constitution.” 39 Minerva Mills [75] (Chandrachud CJ). [2024] 11 S.C.R. 55 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. Before examining the legal effect of the Minerva Mills decision on Article 31-C, we may briefly advert to the decision in Waman Rao which was delivered four months after the decision in Minerva Mills. As noted above, the Constitution Bench in Waman Rao was faced with arguments that the unamended Article 31-C was also unconstitutional. 43. The petitioners in Waman Rao challenged the Maharashtra Lands (Ceiling on Holdings) Act, 1961 which had been placed in the Ninth Schedule of the Constitution. The respondents relied on Articles 31A, 31B, and 31C to contend that the impugned legislation was immunised from constitutional challenges grounded in Articles 14 and 19.