01.01.2015 and again from Agency Sales Administration to Agency Sales w.e.f. 15.05.2017. It is claimed that on account of Departmental restructuring resulting in changes in duties and responsibilities of different officers, the Respondent No.1 became surplus and there being no alternative job available for his adjustment, his services were dispensed with, as per the terms of appointment. 9. The Respondent No. 1 challenged his termination before the Regional Labour Commissioner (Central), which led to conciliation proceedings. However, no settlement could be arrived at. The Respondent No. 1 was issued a Certificate dated 25.10.2017 to approach the Tribunal directly. 10. The Respondent No.1 filed claim petition9 before the Tribunal. Three officers of the company were impleaded and not the company, which was the employer of the Respondent No.1. Para 3 of the Award of the Tribunal mentions that in spite of notice, neither the management company nor the officers who were impleaded as party appeared. Hence, they were proceeded against ex parte. However, the fact remains that the management was not a party before the Tribunal. Finally, while granting the relief also it was directed that the first party management-Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance Co. Ltd. is directed to reinstate the applicant workman whereas the first party impleaded 9 I.D. Case No.86 of 2017 986 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports before the Tribunal was not Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance Co. Ltd. but Tarun Chugh, CEO and Managing Director of the company. 10.1 It is to observe that proper impleadment of parties in any proceedings is sine qua non in any matter coming before the court. However, what is noticed is that it has become a casualty in the process. Due care is not taken at the time of initiation of any proceedings before any forum to ensure that proper parties are impleaded. 10.2 The case in hand is not in isolation. It needs to be appreciated that a corporate has a separate legal entity as compared to an individual or an officer of the company. There can be privity of contract between the corporate and any other individual and that contract or communication may have been signed by any officer on its behalf as an authorized signatory. It does not mean that the officer signing the communication or the agreement or the executive head of the company becomes individually liable for any claim against the company except the cases where any specific claim is made in that regard. Any or decree or award passed by the Court, in case proper parties are not impleaded, becomes inexecutable. 11. The plea taken before the High Court while challenging the aforesaid Award of the Tribunal was that the then Human Resource Manager and the Legal Manager were dealing with the matter and had engaged a counsel to represent the company before the Tribunal. However, the Legal Manager had left the management company on 26.09.2018 while the Human Resource Manager had left the management company on 24.05.2019, i.e., during the pendency of the matter before the Tribunal.