9.8.8 However, on behalf of the distilleries, it was contended that there is no good reason for doubting the correctness of the decision in Synthetics and Chemicals (7J) or for referring the issue to a larger Constitution Bench of nine or more Judges. This was because if the States’ submission were to be accepted, then Item 26 in the Schedule to the IDRA would become superfluous and meaningless. Therefore, this Court in Synthetics and Chemicals (7J) speaking through Sabyasachi Mukharji, J., drew a line between the respective spheres of the [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2095 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons Union and the States. It was also contended that despite the insertion of Item 26 in the IDRA, the State was not totally denuded of any power to make a law with respect to rectified spirit or for that matter “industrial alcohol”. In this regard, Entry 33 - List III and Section 18G read with other provisions of the IDRA were considered and by placing reliance on Tika Ramji, it was observed that “the possibility of an under Section 18G being issued by the Central Government would not be enough. The existence of such an would be the essential prerequisite before any repugnancy could ever arise”. 9.8.9 On a conspectus consideration, this Court held that the decision in Synthetics and Chemicals (7J), did not deal with the aspects which arose for consideration in this case and that it was mainly concerned with “industrial alcohol”, i.e., denatured rectified spirit. While holding that rectified spirit is “industrial alcohol”, it recognised at the same time that it can be utilised for obtaining country liquor (by diluting it) or for manufacturing Indian Made Foreign Liquor (“IMFL”). When the decision says that rectified spirit with 95% alcohol content v/v is “toxic”, what it meant was that if taken as it is, it is harmful and injurious to health. By saying “toxic”, it did not mean that it cannot be utilised for potable purposes either by diluting it or by blending it with other items. The Court in Bihar Distillery noted that the undeniable fact is, that rectified spirit is both “industrial alcohol” as well as a liquor which can be converted into country liquor just by adding water. It is also the basic substance from which IMFL are made. Denatured rectified spirit, of course, is wholly and exclusively “industrial alcohol”. It was observed that this basic factual premise which was not and could not be denied by any one raised certain aspects for consideration therein which were not raised or considered in Synthetics and Chemicals (7J). 9.8.10 It was noted that Synthetics and Chemicals (7J) did not deal with rectified spirit which could be converted into potable alcohol and was merely concerned with “industrial alcohol” which could not be so converted, 2096 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports i.e., denatured rectified spirit. A distinction was drawn between industries engaged in manufacturing rectified spirit meant exclusively for supply to industries (industries other than those engaged in obtaining or manufacturing of potable liquor), whether after denaturing it or without denaturing it, and industries engaged in manufacturing rectified spirit exclusively for the purpose of obtaining or manufacturing potable liquor.