He has also omitted to state that he advised his wife (PW-3) against going to the appellant’s house in the night since there may arise a quarrel between all of them. If these facts are ignored from consideration, we only wonder as to why PW-3 would visit the house of the appellant in the wee hours of the morning on 19.05.99. It seems quite unnatural for PW-3 to visit the house of the appellant at 430 am in the morning without any reason. If PW-3 was aware that the appellant and Rani Kaur 3 State of U.P. Vs. Chhoteylal, AIR 2011 SC 697 ; Dimple Gupta (minor) Vs. Rajiv Gupta, AIR 2008 SC 239 [2024] 1 S.C.R. 263 DARSHAN SINGH v. STATE OF PUNJAB were in an illicit relationship for a sufficiently long duration, there was no reason to suspect all of a sudden that the two of them would get together, administer poison and murder the deceased on 19.05.1999, which fact, prompted her to visit the house of the appellant at such odd hours in the morning. Both the Courts have failed to take notice of the several significant omissions and improvements in the evidence of PW 3 and PW 4. 29. Further, PW-5 is a chance witness. He was in his village, answering the call of nature at 6 am, at which point he claimed to have seen the accused persons going in a jeep. It was elicited in his cross examination that he had a side-on view since he stated the jeep came from behind and he got a side-on glimpse. The side-on view would have been only for a couple of seconds at best, since they were travelling in a jeep. Therefore, it is not safe to rely on this testimony solely to prove that the appellant was escaping along with Rani Kaur after having murdered his wife. 30. The appellant had set up a defence that the deceased had committed suicide. The Trial Court has disbelieved it on the premise that the appellant and Rani Kaur were present in the house, and if the deceased were to have committed suicide, it was but natural for the appellant to take her to the hospital and inform concerned persons/authorities. However, we have come to the finding above that the circumstance of appellant and Rani Kaur being present in the house has not been convincingly proved beyond doubt. Therefore, the reasoning given by the Trial Court loses its legs to stand on. In any case, we believe that the appellant has raised a doubt in our minds as regards his defence that the deceased had committed suicide. There appears to be no dispute as to the fact that the death was caused by poisoning. The doctor’s testimony on the basis of the chemical examiner’s report that the cause of death was linked to aluminium phosphide poisoning remains unchallenged. In fact, in his 313 statement, even the appellant states that the deceased consumed poison (aluminum phosphide) and committed suicide.