There, he found one person lying down in a bleeding condition near a garden adjacent to the Mahendar Shah petrol pump. Three assailants brandishing weapons like knife and gupti were approaching to beat the person. On seeing Demistalkumar (PW- 12), two of the three assailants threw away their weapons and ran away towards the bridge. Thereafter, the injured was boarded on to a rickshaw and was sent for treatment. His relatives came and the weapons were deposited at the police station. 17. In cross-examination, Demistalkumar (PW-12) admitted that someone told him about the untoward incident whereupon he proceeded towards the road and within three to four minutes, people gathered at the crime scene. He stayed with the injured for about three to four minutes. One man accompanied the injured in the rickshaw. The witness also helped in placing the injured in the rickshaw and his clothes got stained with blood in this process. After the injured person had been taken to the hospital, he proceeded to the Anand Town Police Station carrying the two weapons abandoned by the offenders with him and reached there at 9:15 pm. However, he did not lodge any complaint of the incident. The witness explained the reason for not giving the complaint stating that a person was already sitting at the police station at 9:15 pm for giving the report. 18. Having carefully sifted through and analysed the evidence of Demistalkumar (PW-12), we find that he did not utter a single word [2024] 8 S.C.R. 363 Allarakha Habib Memon Etc. v. State of Gujarat about the presence of the first informant, Mohammad Arif Memon (PW-11) at the scene of occurrence. He claimed to have picked up two weapons used by the accused, i.e., one big knife and a gupti and had presented them at the police station around 9:15 pm on the very day of the incident. He also stated that he did not submit any report/complaint of the incident because he saw that someone was already sitting at the police station at 9:15 pm for giving the report/complaint. 19. We find it improbable and totally unacceptable that a police constable had seen the incident and had also brought the crime weapons to the police station and yet his statement would not be recorded and the factum of presentation of weapons would not be entered in the daily diary (roznamcha) of the police station. Demistalkumar (PW-12) explained in his cross-examination that he did not give a report about the incident because he noticed the presence of someone at the police station who was sitting there from 9:15 pm to give the report. However, as per the record, no report was admittedly presented at the police station by any person from the complainant side. No police personnel deployed at the Anand Town Police Station corroborated the version of Demistalkumar (PW-12) that someone had come to the police station at 9:15 pm for giving a report of the incident. 20. Since the Police Constable, Demistalkumar (PW-12) claiming to be an eyewitness to the heinous assault had reported at the police station with the crime weapons, there was no reason whatsoever as to why his statement would not have been recorded immediately on his arrival at the police station.