50,000 or more for that year. 31. At this stage, we deem it necessary to expound on the meaning of disclosure. As per the P. Ramanatha Aiyar, Advanced Law Lexicon, Volume 2, Edition 6, ‘to disclose’ is to expose to view or knowledge, anything which before was secret, hidden or concealed. The word ‘disclosure’ means to disclose, reveal, unravel or bring to notice, vide CIT Vs. Bimal Kumar Damani, (2003) 261 ITR 87 (Cal). The word ‘true’ qualifies a fact or averment as correct, exact, actual, genuine or honest. The word ‘full’ means complete. True disclosure of concealed income must relate to the assessee concerned. Full disclosure, in the context of financial documents, means that all material or significant information should be disclosed. Therefore, the meaning of ‘full and true disclosure’ is the voluntary filing of a 666 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports return of income that the assessee earnestly believes to be true. Production of books of accounts or other material evidence that could ordinarily be discovered by the assessing officer does not amount to a true and full disclosure. 32. Let us now discuss some of the s cited at the bar. First and foremost is the decision of a constitution bench of this Court in Calcutta Discount Company Limited (supra). That was a case under Section 34 of the Indian Income Tax Act, 1922 which is in pari- materia to Section 147 of the Act. The constitution bench explained the purport of Section 34 of the Indian Income Tax Act, 1922 and highlighted two conditions which would have to be satisfied before issuing a notice to reopen an assessment beyond four years but within eight years (as was the then limitation). The first condition was that the income tax officer must have reason to believe that income, profits or gains chargeable to income tax had been under- assessed. The second condition was that he must have also reason to believe that such under-assessment had occurred by reason of either (i) omission or failure on the part of the assessee to make a return of his income under Section 22, or (ii) omission or failure on the part of the assessee to disclose fully and truly all material facts necessary for his assessment for that year. It was emphasized that both these were conditions precedent to be satisfied before the income tax officer could have jurisdiction to issue a notice for the assessment or re-assessment beyond the period of four years but within the period of eight years from the end of the year in question. The words used in the expression “omission or failure to disclose fully and truly all material facts necessary for his assessment for that year” would postulate a duty on every assessee to disclose fully and truly all material facts necessary for his assessment though what facts are material and necessary for assessment would differ from case to case. On the above basis, this Court came to the conclusion that while the duty of the assessee is to disclose fully and truly all primary facts, it does not extend beyond this.