It has been held that, whereas the Standing s provided for the department wherein a workman may be asked to work within the establishment itself in Bangalore, Clause 3 of the letter of appointment, on the other hand, gives the right to the employer to transfer a workman from the establishment at Bangalore to any other establishment of the Company in India. It has been held that the Standing does not in any way refer [2024] 3 S.C.R. 967 M/s. Divgi Metal Wares Ltd. v. M/s. Divgi Metal Wares Employees Association & Anr. to or prohibit the transfer of a workman from one establishment of the appellant to another and thus, there is no conflict between the said clauses. 12. The terms of appointment, which fell for consideration of this Court in the case of Cipla Ltd. (supra) are almost similar to the terms of the appointment in the appointment as well as the confirmation in the present case. They clearly stipulate that the services are transferable to any department or any work offices belonging to the company. It is further clarified that; upon transfer, the terms and conditions stipulated in the appointment would continue to apply and the employees would be governed by the rules and regulations of the employment where his/her services are transferred. 13. Even for a moment if it is accepted that the reasoning of the Division Bench that the amendment to clause 20 of the Standing by dated 30.09.1999 is not permissible; still, in view of the law laid down by this Court in the case of Cipla Ltd. (supra), it would make no difference. If the reasoning of the Division Bench is accepted, Clause 20 would read as under:- “20. Transfers: An employee shall be liable to be transferred at any time from one department to another within the same unit/factory/office/establishment or from one job of similar nature and capacity to another job of same nature and capacity from one job to another similar job or from one shift to another shift, provided such a transfer does not affect his normal wages. Any refusal to accept a transfer as above will be treated as mis-conduct as per Rule 31.2.1949.” 14. If that be so, the clause in the Standing would be similar with the clause that fell for consideration before this Court in the case of Cipla Ltd. (supra), and as such, there would be no conflict between the Standing and the terms and conditions as stipulated in the of appointment/confirmation. Whereas the Standing would cover the transfer from one department to another within the same unit/factory/office/establishment or from one job of similar nature and capacity to another job of same nature and capacity and also from one job to another similar job or from one shift to another shift. Per contra, the terms of appointment and confirmation would permit the transfer of an employee to any department or any works or offices 968 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports belonging to the company.