2111 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. the views of the pertinent States by a regional or national consultation would have made the decision-making process wholesome, as a wider consultation in matters such as the one under consideration would make the decision to be taken less vulnerable to attack and less arbitrary. But the impugned decision of the Union of India, based on a flawed procedure adopted by GEAC at the instance of the applicant, is arbitrary and liable to be interfered with by this Court when it is justified. In these circumstances, the decision of the respondent-Union of India dated 25.10.2022, as well as the recommendation of GEAC dated 18.10.2022, are liable to be set aside. 42.18 Further, no material has been brought before us to point out as to how the decision of GEAC was accepted by MoEF&CC and the recommendation of the environmental release of transgenic mustard hybrid DMH-11 was simply permitted. As discussed hereinabove, the grant of approval by GEAC is governed by Rule13. The said Rule does not contemplate any role for the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEF&CC) in the decision-making process. Therefore, the lateral intervention by the said Ministry seriously undermines the credibility and integrity of the decision making as well as the regulatory process. Although the applicant is not a private entity but a Centre in Delhi University (South Campus), the status of the applicant would not matter in arriving at a decision as in the instant case. 42.19 I observe that the principle of public accountability and transparency in State action are applicable to the cases of execution or statutory exercise of power. Every officer in the hierarchy of the State by virtue of his being a public officer/ servant is accountable for his decisions to the public as well as to the State. The concept of dual responsibility should be applied in larger public interest and proper governance. In other words, where a power is given to do a certain thing in a certain way, the thing must be done in that way or not at all and other methods of performance are necessarily forbidden. This principle has also been expressed in terms of the Latin maxim expressio unius est exclusio alterius, which means that when a manner is specified for doing a certain thing, then all other modes for carrying out such act are expressly excluded. 2112 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Vide, Taylor vs. Taylor, (1875) LR 1 Ch D 426 (“Taylor”) and Nazir Ahmad vs. King-Emperor, 1936 SCC OnLine PC 41 : (1935-36) 63 IA 372 (“Nazir Ahmad”). This Court too has applied this maxim in the following cases: (i) Parbhani Transport Cooperative Society Ltd. vs. Regional Transport Authority Aurangabad, (1960) 3 SCR 177 : AIR 1960 SC 801 (“Parbhani Transport Coop. Society”), wherein it was observed that the rule provides that an expressly laid down mode of doing something necessarily implies a prohibition of doing it in any other way.