As this is a significant immunity, the requirements of Article 39(b) must be strictly complied with and read narrowly; b. Article 39(b) requires that there must not only be a ‘material resource’, but such resource must also be ‘of the community’. If the material cannot be traced to the ‘the community’, it cannot be the subject of the policy; c. The object that must be “distributed” under Article 39(b) is the “ownership and control” of the resources. The mere distribution of the resources, without disturbing the element of its ownership and control cannot be the subject of the policy; d. From various dictionary definitions of the terms ‘material’, ‘resource’, and ‘resources’, it emerges that ‘material resources of the community’ mean either natural resources (which are 96 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports those of the country or the nation) or the means of production which in a large sense can be said to be of community, even though they may be in private hands; e. The formulation of ‘material resources’ advanced by Justice Krishna Iyer in Ranganatha Reddy and subsequently followed in several judgements of this Court is too wide. Merely because a privately owned resource meets the qualifier of “material needs” does not make it a ‘material resource of the community’. The Constitution does not embody the social theory that because the individual is a member of the community, his resources however small are a necessary part of the community; f. As evidenced from the debates in the Constituent Assembly, Article 39(b) has been deliberately drafted in language which provides flexibility to adapt to changing constitutional and social values. It cannot be restricted to a ‘Marxist reading’ of the Constitution; g. Despite the purported socialist aims of the Constituent Assembly in incorporating the Directive Principles, private property was included as a fundamental right at the inception of the Constitution and continues to be given importance in inter alia Article 300A. This must be considered while interpreting the “community” element of Article 39(b); and h. The observations of this Court in Mafatlal on whether Article 39(b) encompasses private property are obiter dicta. The decision merely proceeds on the basis that the same has been “repeatedly affirmed by this Court” and the question was not before the Court. 76. Mr H Devarajan, counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants supplemented the arguments of Mr Andhyarujina and Mr Parekh. In the context of the MHADA Act, he made the following submissions: a. If Article 39(b) is to be read to include privately owned resources, the provision would have to be worded differently. It would either expressly contain the words “private material resources” or in any event, not contain the rider after material resources that they must be “of the community”; b. ‘Material resources of the community’ refers to resources which must produce goods or services for the community or be ‘capable [2024] 11 S.C.R. 97 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. of producing wealth for the community’.