Digital Supreme Court Reports 10. The Division Bench of the High Court, by the impugned herein, reversed the decision of the Single Judge on the simple ground that as the license was granted for one year, the Rule that existed during that license year must apply. The reason for not applying the substituted Rule according to the Division Bench is also that determination of penalty being substantive law, cannot operate retrospectively. 11. Questioning the legality and validity of the decision of the Division Bench of the High Court, the present appeals are filed. Mr. Pratap Venugopal, Ld. Senior Advocate, appearing on behalf of the appellant argued that the effect of substitution is to repeal the existing provision from the statute book in its entirety and to enforce the newly substituted provision. He would further submit that even for incidents which took place when the old Rule was in force, it is the substituted Rule that would be applicable, and therefore, the demand notice dated 22.11.2011 seeking payment of penalties under old Rule is illegal. 12. There is no difficulty in accepting the argument of Mr. Pratap Venugopal on principle. In Koteswar Vittal Kamath v. K. Rangappa Baliga & Co.11, this Court brought out the distinction between supersession of a rule and substitution of a rule, and held that the process of substitution consists of two steps – first, the old rule is repealed, and next, a new rule is brought into existence in its place: “8. On that analogy, it was argued that, if we hold that the Prohibition of 1950, was invalid, the previous Prohibition of 1119, cannot be held to be revived. This argument ignores the distinction between supersession of a rule, and substitution of a rule. In the case of Firm A.T.B. Mehtab Majid & Co., the new Rule 16 was substituted for the old Rule 16. The process of substitution consists of two steps. First, the old rule it made to cease to exist and, next, the new rule is brought into existence in its place. Even if the new rule be invalid, the first step of the old rule ceasing to exist comes into effect, and it was for this reason that the court held that, on declaration of the new rule as invalid, the old rule could not be held to be revived.” 11 [1969] 3 SCR 40 : (1969) 1 SCC 255 [2024] 4 S.C.R. 675 Pernod Ricard India (P) Ltd. v. The State of Madhya Pradesh & Ors. 12.1 In Zile Singh v. State of Haryana12, this Court referred to the legislative practice of an amendment by substitution and held that substitution would have the effect of amending the operation of law during the period in which it was in force. “24. The substitution of one text for the other pre-existing text is one of the known and well-recognised practices employed in legislative drafting. “Substitution” has to be distinguished from “supersession” or a mere repeal of an existing provision. 25. Substitution of a provision results in repeal of the earlier provision and its replacement by the new provision (see Principles of Statutory Interpretation, ibid., p. 565).