[Para 145] 2.3. As part of the broader rule against abuse of process, the Henderson principle is rooted in the idea of preventing the judicial process from being exploited in any manner that tends to undermine its integrity – This idea of preventing abuse of judicial process is not confined to specific procedure rules, but rather aligned to a broader purport of giving quietus to litigation and finality to judicial decisions – The essence of this rule is that litigation must be conducted in good faith, and parties should not engage in procedural tactics that fragment disputes, prolong litigation, or undermine the outcomes of such litigation – It is not a rigid rule but rather a flexible principle to prevent oppressive, unfair, or detrimental litigation. [Para 146] [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1623 Celir LLP v. Mr. Sumati Prasad Bafna & Ors. 3. Although in the present case, the Borrower had raised the issue of the validity of the measures taken by the Bank under the SARFAESI Act and the legality of the 9th auction conducted by it in the earlier stages albeit in a different proceeding, yet its conduct of having conveniently abandoned the same in a different proceeding elected by it for the same cause of action and then later re-agitating it in the pretence that the two proceedings were distinct, is nothing but a textbook case of abuse of process of law. [Para 148] 4. Piecemeal litigation where issues are deliberately fragmented across separate proceedings to gain an unfair advantage is in itself a facet of abuse of process of law and would also fall foul of this principle – Merely because one proceeding initiated by a party differs in some aspects from another proceeding or happens to be before a different forum, will not make the subsequent proceeding distinct in nature from the former, if the underlying subject matter or the seminal issues involved remains substantially similar to each other or connected to the earlier subject matter by a certain degree, then such proceeding would tantamount to ‘re-litigating’ and the Henderson Principle would be applicable – Where a party deliberately withholds certain claims or issues in one proceeding with the intention to raise them in a subsequent litigation disguised as a distinct or separate remedy or proceeding from the initial one, such subsequent litigation will also fall foul of this principle – Similarly, where a plea or issue was raised in earlier proceedings but later abandoned it is deemed waived and cannot be re-litigated in subsequent – Parties must litigate diligently and in good faith, presenting their entire case at the earliest opportunity. [Paras 149, 150, 151] 5. The Henderson principle operates on the broader contours of judicial propriety and fairness, ensuring that the judicial system remains an instrument of justice rather than a platform for procedural manipulation – Both logic and principle support the approach that the judicial determination of an entire cause of action is in fact the determination of every issue which is fundamental to establishing the entire cause of action – The effect of a judicial determination on an entire cause of action is as if the court had made declarations on each issue fundamental to the ultimate decision.