Cognizance was taken by a criminal Court based on the above complaint on 19th July 2007. It must be noted here that the second respondent filed, more or less, a similar complaint under Section 200 of the Cr.PC against the appellants on 31st July 2007. The second respondent’s subsequent complaint bearing Case No.1248 of 2007 was dismissed by the learned Judicial Magistrate by the dated 14th September 2009, in the exercise of power under Section 203 of the Cr.PC by holding that no case was made out against the appellants. 5. Uma Shankar was transposed as a defendant in the suit for specific performance, who filed a written statement contending that the entire consideration paid to the appellants with compensation for delayed payment has been returned. On 11th November 2008, the second respondent filed an application in the pending suit, contending that there was a settlement between the parties and that the second respondent has no right, title or interest in the suit properties. Therefore, he prayed for a grant of permission to withdraw the suit. By the dated 27th November 2008, the learned Trial Judge dismissed the suit for specific performance as withdrawn. 6. In the first complaint bearing Case No.1027 of 2007, the appellants applied under Section 245 of the Cr.PC for discharge on the grounds of compromise. The application for discharge was rejected by the learned Judicial Magistrate, First Class, Jamshedpur, by the dated 28th August 2012. The appellants preferred a criminal revision application against the before the High Court of Jharkhand at Ranchi. The High Court dismissed the criminal revision application. The High Court declined to look into the application for withdrawal of the suit made by the second respondent, and the consequent passed on the said application by the Trial Court on the ground that at the time of framing of the charge, the accused had no right to produce any documents. The Special Leave Petition filed before this Court by the appellants against the s of the Trial Court and the High Court was withdrawn with liberty to avail such remedies as may be available. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 131 Sardar Ravi Inder Singh & Anr. v. State of Jharkhand & Anr. 7. Thereafter, the appellants invoked a remedy before the High Court by filing a substantive writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of India for quashing the first criminal complaint. By the impugned , the High Court dismissed the said writ petition on the ground that the same contentions had been rejected in an earlier criminal revision application, which cannot be re-agitated. Therefore, there was a bar under Article 362 of the Cr. PC. SUBMISSIONS 8. The learned senior counsel appearing for the appellants has taken us through the copy of the plaint, the application for withdrawal made by the second respondent and the passed thereon by the learned Trial Court. He submitted that the High Court had adopted a very hyper-technical approach. He submitted that the learned Judicial Magistrate dismissed the second complaint filed by the second respondent by holding that no case was made out to proceed.