In other words, if a law passed ostensibly to give effect to the policy of the State is, in truth and substance, one for accomplishing an unauthorised object, the Court would be entitled to tear the veil created by the declaration and decide according to the real nature of the law.” (emphasis supplied) 134. In view of the decision in Kesavananda Bharati, it has been consistently affirmed by this Court that the declaration in a statute that the Act has a nexus with or seeks to give effect to the principles laid down in Article 39(b) or (c) is subject to judicial review. To determine whether a statute is within the folds of Article 31-C, the court may examine the nature and character of legislation to determine whether there is any direct and reasonable nexus between the law and the principles in Articles 39(b) and (c). On such an examination, if it [2024] 11 S.C.R. 129 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. appears that there is no such nexus, the legislation will not enjoy the protection of Article 31-C. It has been held by this Court that “to see the real nature of the statute, the court may also tear the veil”. If the court concludes that the object of the legislation was merely a pretence and the real object does not correspond with the principles laid down in Articles 39(b) and (c), Article 31-C would not be attracted and the validity of the statute would have to be tested independent of Article 31-C. 135. It cannot be gainsaid that the impact of a legislation being saved by Article 31C is significant. The impact of this ‘safe harbour’ was eloquently described by Chief Justice YV Chandrachud, speaking for a majority of judges in Minerva Mills. While detailing the consequence of legislation being protected from a challenge under Article 14 and 19, this Court observed: “61. Articles 14 and 19 do not confer any fanciful rights. They confer rights which are elementary for the proper and effective functioning of a democracy. They are universally so regarded, as is evident from the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Many countries in the civilised world have parted with their sovereignty in the hope and belief that their citizens will enjoy human Freedoms. And they preferred to be bound by the decisions and decrees of foreign tribunals on matters concerning human freedoms. If Articles 14 and 19 are put out of operation in regard to the bulk of laws which the legislatures are empowered to pass, Article 32 will be drained of its life-blood. 74. Three Articles of our Constitution and only three, stand between the heaven of freedom into which Tagore wanted his country to awake and the abyss of unrestrained power. They are Articles 14, 19 and 21. Article 31-C has removed two sides of that golden triangle which affords to the people of this country an assurance that the promise held forth by preamble will be performed by ushering an egalitarian era through the discipline of fundamental rights, that is, without emasculation of the rights to liberty and equality which alone can help preserve the dignity of the individual” (emphasis supplied) 130 [2024] 11 S.C.R.