Both the doctors have indicated that this may involve a certain degree of [2024] 5 S.C.R. 483 A (Mother of X) v. State of Maharashtra & Anr. risk to the minor which cannot be ruled out bearing in mind the late stage of the pregnancy. 15. The parents of ‘X’ have conversed with the doctors and with the Court on the video conferencing platform in Hindi. Their primary concern was that they should have been apprised a week ago by the medical team after the of this Court was passed of the inherent dangers in carrying out the procedure in an advanced pregnancy. We appreciate the concerns of the parents and their anguish, particularly having regard to the backdrop in which the pregnancy is stated to have arisen. The issue is about the way forward at the present stage. 16. During the course of the conversation online, the doctors have deliberated on whether a delivery can be induced at this stage. However, both the doctors ruled out such a course of action bearing in mind that inducing a delivery at this stage may have real risks of a deformed child as a result of the premature birth. The situation has been duly explained to the parents of the minor. 17. It has emerged during the course of the discussion that both the parents of ‘X’ are averse to undertaking any risk to the life and well-being of their daughter at this stage and would prefer to take her home and to readmit her to the Sion hospital in time for her due date of delivery. During the course of the discussion, Dr Bava indicated to the parents that Sion hospital is ready and willing to let ‘X’ be in the care of the hospital from now until the date of the delivery. However, the father of the minor has specifically stated the he would prefer to take the minor home where she would be in more congenial surroundings with the members of her family. The doctors have indicated to the father and the mother that they should bring the minor back to the hospital for regular antenatal checkups. 18. This Court by its earlier had authorized the medical team at the Sion hospital to carry out the termination of pregnancy. The reasons on the basis of which such a course was adopted have been elaborated upon in the earlier , which is extracted above. Even when the Court passed the on the previous occasion, the minor was in the thirtieth week of her pregnancy. She is now nearing the end of the thirty first week of pregnancy. 484 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 19. The sole and only consideration which must weigh with the Court at this stage is the safety and welfare of the minor. We are conscious of the trauma which the minor will face in having to continue the pregnancy for approximately five weeks, if the course of action which has been suggested by her parents is accepted.