III. Necessity test to claim and exercise a privilege 85. Having established that the privileges and immunities exercisable by members of the House individually must be tethered to the functioning of the House we must now explore which privileges may be deemed to accrue to the House collectively and by extension to individual members. In State of Karnataka (supra) a seven-Judge bench of this Court speaking through MH Beg, CJ held that the powers under Article 194 (as well as Article 105) are those which depend upon and are necessary for the conduct of the business of each House. In that sense, these powers may not even apply to all the privileges which accrue to the House of Commons but may not be necessary for the functioning of the House. The learned Chief Justice stated: [2024] 3 S.C.R. 521 Sita Soren v. Union of India “57. It is evident, from the Chapter in which Article 194 occurs as well as the heading and its marginal note that the “powers” meant to be indicated here are not independent. They are powers which depend upon and are necessary for the conduct of the business of each House. They cannot also be expanded into those of the House of Commons in England for all purposes. For example, it could not be contended that each House of a State Legislature has the same share of legislative power as the House of Commons has, as a constituent part of a completely sovereign legislature. Under our law it is the Constitution which is sovereign or supreme. The Parliament as well as each Legislature of a State in India enjoys only such legislative powers as the Constitution confers upon it. Similarly, each House of Parliament or State Legislature has such share in legislative power as is assigned to it by the Constitution itself. […]” (emphasis supplied) 86. This Court held that in India the source of authority is the Constitution which derives its sovereignty from the people. The powers and privileges claimed by a House cannot traverse beyond those which are permissible under the Constitution. The Constitution only allows exercise of those powers, privileges, and immunities which are essential to the functioning of the House or a committee thereof. MN Kaul and SL Shakdher have opined that54 “In interpreting these privileges, therefore, regard must be had to the general principle that the privileges of Parliament are granted to members in that “they may be able to perform their duties in Parliament without let or hindrance”. They apply to individual members “only insofar as they are necessary in that the House may freely perform its functions. They do not discharge the member from the obligations to society which apply to him as much and perhaps more closely in that capacity, as they apply to other subjects”. Privileges 54 MN Kaul and SL Shakdher, Practice and Procedure of Parliament, Lok Sabha Secretariat, Metropolitan Book Co. Pvt. Ltd., 7th ed., 229. 522 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of Parliament do not place a member of Parliament on a footing different from that of an ordinary citizen in the matter of the application of laws unless there are good and sufficient reasons in the interest of Parliament itself to do so.” (emphasis supplied) 87.