@ Payasam Shaji i.e. you have disclosed the names of other carriers i.e. (i) Hyder Shaji (your son) (ii) Shri Anas from Erattupetta, (iii) Shri Siraj from Erattupetta. You further disclosed that they used to go Chennai on your directions with unaccounted foreign currencies where they handed over the currency to the Chennai based racketeers and in exchange of foreign currency, they receive Indian currency. All these transactions are unaccounted as per your admission and the records were disposed of once the transactions were completed. The entire illegal transactions to the tune of Rs 25 Crores were carried out by Shri Shaji A.K. @ Payasam Shaji i.e. you with the help of your close relatives and friends. ix. Thus, Shri Appisseril Kochu Muhammed Shaji @ Payasam Shaji i.e. you have indulged yourself in 336 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports hawala dealings, illegal purchase, sale and carriage of foreign currencies. x. Chapter II of Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 provides for “Regulation and Management of Foreign Exchange”. Section 3 of Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999, specifically prohibits dealing in foreign exchange without the general or special permission of the Reserve Bank of India. It reads thus: “3 Dealing in foreign exchange, etc. Save as otherwise provided in this Act, rules or regulations made there under, or with the general or special permission of the Reserve Bank, no person shall-(a) deal in or transfer any foreign exchange or foreign security to any person not being an authorized person; (b) make any payment to or for the credit of any person resident outside India in any manner; (c) receive otherwise through an authorized person, any payment by or on behalf of any person resident outside India in any manner. Explanation- For the purpose of this clause, where any person in, or resident in, India receives any payment by or on behalf of any person resident outside India through any other person (including an authorized person) without a corresponding inward remittance from any place outside India, then, such person shall be deemed to have received such payment otherwise than through an authorized person; (d) enter into any financial transaction in India as consideration for or in association with acquisition or creation or transfer of a right to acquire, any asset outside India by any person Explanation- For the purpose of this clause “financial transaction” means making any payment to, or for the credit of any person, or receiving any payment for, by or on behalf of any person, or drawing, issuing or negotiating any bill of exchange or promissory note, [2024] 9 S.C.R. 337 Jaseela Shaji v. The Union of India & Ors. or transferring any security or acknowledging any debt. 4 Holding of foreign exchange, etc. -Save as otherwise provided in this Act, no person resident in India shall acquire, hold, own, possess or transfer any foreign exchange, foreign security or any immovable property situated outside India.” xi. Further, Section 4 of Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999, specifically provides that no person resident in India shall acquire, hold, own or possess or transfer any foreign exchange, foreign security or any immovable property situated outside India, except as otherwise provided under the Act.