ii) As regards other jails are concerned, the State has directed the Superintendent of all jails to get estimates for construction of new wards and/or renovation. It may be (sic) admissible if this process is completed as soon as possible so that the requirement in each of the jails is ascertained as soon as possible and those works which can be started this year can commence at the earliest. iii) The Superintendent of women jails/wards in the State can also examine specific issues dealing with hygiene, sanitation and medical checkup of women and also the facility required for children and communicate the same as soon as possible to the Headquarter for doing the needful.’ 28. At this stage, the Court would indicate that the State does not appear serious in taking immediate remedial measures in the matter inasmuch as it has left it to the Prison Superintendents to prepare/obtain 3 hereinafter referred to as ‘JPHCL’ 1052 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports estimates for the works recommended with the aid of JPHCL. The Prison Superintendent, being the junior-most officer in the hierarchy, cannot be expected to have much of a say, real or persuasive, to get things done at the higher/highest level. With this in mind, this Court had earlier indicated that the Chief Secretaries of the States/ Union Territories would be filing affidavits, with the idea so that all the recommendations could be scrutinised at the highest level, and consequently, whatever action would be required, could be taken by the State Government, eliminating any processual delays. 29. The State shall act in terms of the directions sought by the AC, being mindful of what we have penned above. (F) STATE OF ODISHA 30. The AC’s Note indicates that the affidavit filed by the Chief Secretary is not clear on one aspect - the Chief Secretary has forwarded minutes of meetings of the Committees of 13 Districts, whereas there are 30 Districts in the State of Odisha. It is not clear if the remaining Districts (17) have held their meetings, and if yes, what report/recommendation(s) have been made. To address the problem of overcrowding in 8 jails, inter alia, additional wards have been constructed in 29 selected jails enhancing the total capacity of inmates by 2240 during the years 2020-2021, 2021- 2022 and 2022-2023. It is stated that additional wards are also under construction in 23 jails, which would enhance the inmate capacity by 1625. 31. For five districts, namely, Nabarangpur, Kandhamal Phulbani, Doegarh, Gajapati and Sundergarh, for which recommendations have been made by the Committee concerned, there is nothing to indicate as to what action has been taken on the same. 32. The State is directed to proceed with all possible expedition to ramp up the capacity and file a fresh affidavit before the next date. (G) STATE OF KERALA 33. The affidavit by the Chief Secretary indicates overcrowding issues in 13 prisons.4 Recommendations have also been made by the 4 For reference, the State of Kerala has 56 prisons.