The new story of forging documents was built up in the complaint filed with the police only to give a criminal colour which actually was commercial in nature. 31. Not only this, despite dismissal of the application filed by the complainant for recall of the merger by the High Court vide dated 15.03.2016, in the complaint made to the police on 29.07.2018 i.e. more than two years and four months later, still the complainant did not furnish complete details thereof, especially the filing and dismissal of the application for recall of the merger . Rather, it merely stated that he got the documents from the High Court which were filed along with the amalgamation application and came to know about certain facts therefrom but did not mention about the application filed for recall of the of amalgamation and the result thereof. Non-disclosure of such relevant facts was a deliberate and mischievous attempt on the part of the complainant to maliciously initiate criminal proceedings for ulterior motives. 32. Most importantly, it needs to be noticed that it was a plain and simple transaction between the corporates. Even as per the complainant’s case, the short-term loan was advanced in the year 2010 for a period of one year. However, when the same was not returned, no steps were taken by the complainant to recover the same until the FIR in question was registered on 29.07.2018 i.e. 8 years & 7 months later. 33. Further, the complainant came to know about the merger of the Gulab Buildtech and Verma Buildtech with BDR in the year 2013 itself. However, even after dismissal of the application filed for recall of the merger passed by the High Court on 15.03.2016, no steps were taken to recover the amount, except getting the FIR registered more than two years later. All these facts clearly reflect upon the ill designs of the complainant. 34. The entire factual matrix and the time lines clearly reflects that the complainant deliberately and unnecessarily has caused substantial delay and had been waiting for opportune moment for initiating false and frivolous litigation. [2024] 1 S.C.R. 403 Dinesh Gupta v. The State of Uttar Pradesh & Anr. 35. Further, it has been noticed by the High Court in the impugned that on an application filed by the appellants, an Arbitrator was appointed by the Delhi High Court vide dated 15.05.2019 to settle the dispute amongst the parties and the said matter was still pending. 36. In view of the aforesaid discussion, we find that the FIR in question, if proceeded further, will result in absolute abuse of process of court. It is a clear case of malicious prosecution. Hence, the same is required to be quashed. 37. The appeals are accordingly allowed. The impugned passed by the High Court is set aside. FIR No.1271 of 2018 dated 29.07.2018 registered with Gautam Budh Nagar Police Station, Noida, and all subsequent proceedings thereof qua the appellants are quashed. 38. Before parting with the judgement, we are reminded of the opening remarks.