A large number of. jurists including Mr. Seervai, learned counsel for the petitioners Mr. Garg and learned counsel for respondents and interveners Mr. Dikshit and Kaskar have stated that this case requires reconsideration. In view of the urgency it is necessary that the matter should be decided as early as possible we give liberty to the counsel for parties to mention the matter before Chief Justice.” [Emphasis supplied] 86. A plain reading of these observations reveals that the two-judge bench in Anjuman (supra) doubted the correctness of the decision in Azeez Basha (supra) and the principles enunciated therein. The bench while questioning the holding in Azeez Basha (supra), also borrowed strength from the views expressed by some jurists. 1808 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 87. In Azeez Basha (supra), the issue pertained to the constitutional validity of the AMU 1951 and 1965 Amendment Acts. While questioning the correctness of the decision in Azeez Basha (supra), it is evident that the reference in Anjuman (supra) also insinuated that potential errors may have occurred in the analysis of the constitutionality of those enactments. The reference seeking to re-open the issues settled in Azeez Basha (supra), thus, necessarily means not only to re- examine the correctness of that decision but also an attempt to revisit the constitutionality of the AMU 1951 and 1965 Amendment Acts. 88. Importantly, the key term used in the reference in Anjuman (supra) is ‘and’, which is clearly used to state that both ‘Azeez Basha’s case may also be considered’ and ‘the ingredients of a minority institution’ should be examined definitively. Such an analysis would also have to consider the question posed in TMA Pai (supra) under 3(a) regarding the criteria required for an institution to qualify as a ‘minority institution’ under Article 30 of the Constitution, and consequently, as to whether, AMU fulfils such criteria or not. 89. We therefore find it difficult to align ourselves with the opinion expressed by Hon’ble the Chief Justice, according to which the reference before us was limited to determining only the criteria an educational institution must meet under Article 30 of the Constitution. However, given the Hon’ble Chief Justice’s decision to further refer the matter pertaining to AMU to a regular bench, we have confined our views to discerning the relevant indicia under Article 30, so as to avoid binding or influencing the regular bench that will ultimately decide the factual issues. F.2. Manner of making reference to a larger bench 90. The two-judge bench in Anjuman (supra), after expressing doubt about the correctness of Azeez Basha (supra) and its principles, referred the matter for reconsideration to a larger bench. Additionally, the bench in Anjuman (supra) specifically stated that the larger bench reviewing Azeez Basha (supra)—a decision by a five- judge bench—should consist of seven judges. The decision further directed that the matter be placed before the Hon’ble Chief Justice for appropriate directions. 91. Such a reference, to our mind, is not consistent with the established norms of judicial propriety.