He showed the papers to me. It is not true to suggest that [2024] 7 S.C.R. 647 Mir Mustafa Ali Hasmi v. The State of A.P. after accused showing the papers to me I snatched them and myself and Pw2 turned them and throw them away. It is not true to suggest that I paid the money to the Accused 1 near the generator and the accused asked me to put it in bag is false. It is not true to suggest I kept the tainted amount in the rexyne bag which was left by the accused before leaving coffee inn and I planted the currency notes in the bag and handed over it to him and the accused has no knowledge the tainted amount was in the rexyne bag. It is not true to suggest that myself and Pw2 used our influence to ACB to organize the false trap against Alas AO.1 insisted of filing case against my wife, Manjula. It is not true to suggest that the AO1 and 2 did not telephone me and my statement is false.” (emphasis supplied) 14. Referring to the above admissions as appearing in the testimony of the complainant (PW-1), Shri Naidu contended that it is clear that the appellant (AO1) had forgotten his rexine bag in the coffee shop from which the tainted currency notes were recovered later by the trap party, and it was the complainant (PW-1) who handed over the same rexine bag to the appellant (AO1). Shri Naidu urged that fuelled by ulterior motive, the complainant (PW-1) misused this window of opportunity to plant the tainted currency notes in the bag of the appellant (AO1). 15. Learned counsel also urged that the prosecution did not take any steps to get the wash collected from the hands of the appellant (AO1) during the trap proceedings, tested through the FSL and thus, there is no corroborative evidence to show that the appellant (AO1) had accepted or handled the tainted currency notes as alleged by prosecution. 16. Shri Naidu further contended that the trial Court as well as the High Court rendered the findings of guilt against the appellant (AO1) merely on the basis of assumptions and presumptions drawn from the tainted and vacillating deposition of the complainant (PW-1) and PW-2, who was admittedly a close friend of the complainant (PW-1) and thus, he can be categorized as being an interested witness. 17. Learned counsel also urged that the TLO (PW-10) was under an obligation to send an independent shadow witness with the 648 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports complainant (PW-1) and PW-2 to oversee and overhear the events as they unfolded during the course of the transaction of demand and acceptance of the bribe. Admittedly, neither the mediators nor any other witness associated in the trap proceedings heard the conversation which took place between the AO1 (appellant), the complainant (PW-1) and PW-2, despite the positive case that they all were sitting on the nearby table. It was the complainant (PW-1) who voluntarily took his friend, PW-2, and got him associated during the trap proceeding.