For this, ICAR Delhi can make good use of established infrastructure under the All India Crop Coordinated Programmes. It is advised that a single window system for managing the testing and release of GM varieties and hybrids should be established taking into account special considerations involved with GM crops viz. expression levels of inserted proteins, confirmation of the events etc., irrespective of whether these are produced by the private or public sector. In this context, the Ministry of Agriculture (MoA) should consider establishing a high-level committee of experts: including socio-economists, tanners, Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs) and the representative of the private sector to review finally, for commercial release, the cases that are cleared by GEAC. g. Once a GM variety hybrid is released, a post-release monitoring mechanism must be put in place. (ii) Secondly, as to when environmental release through open-field trials should be permitted, the dissenting report noted that “open-field trial” is a misnomer in the 1990 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports context of trials of GM crops. This is because even though the trial is done in the open field, the GM plants and genetic material being tested are confined to the field trial site using measures to ensure that the “genes in pollen or seed do not escape from the trial site”. Thus, the right term is “Confined Field Trials”. It, then proceeded to suggest that Confined Field Trials should only be permitted by RCGM and GEAC after careful consideration of submissions that adhere exactly to the “Application for Confined Field Trial” form. This form, in combination with the “Guidelines and Standard Operating Procedures for Confined Field Trials of Regulated, Genetically Engineered Plants”, clearly specifies the information required by the competent authorities to determine if a Confined Field Trial should be permitted or not. The application form was developed through a transparent, consultative process that included a period for public review and comment. Hence, both the approach and procedure for permitting Confined Field Trials in India have already been peer-reviewed and public-reviewed. In sum, the tests that are required prior to obtaining a permit for a confined field trial are: a. Amino acid sequence homology comparisons to assess the extent to which the transgenic protein is similar in structure to known toxins; b. Amino acid sequence homology comparisons to assess the extent to which the transgenic protein is similar in structure to known allergens. It was also considered desirable, but not mandatory, to determine the maximum level of expression of the transgenic protein in the edible portions of the plant. (iii) Thirdly, as to whether a proper evaluation of the GE plant is scientifically tenable in the greenhouse conditions, the dissenting report answered in the negative. It noted that a proper evaluation of a GE plant is scientifically not tenable in a contained greenhouse since it would not be feasible to replicate the conditions [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1991 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. prevailing under natural field conditions representing different agro-ecological regions and growing seasons.