to be raised, inter alia, to the effect that Article 31C did not survive because of the events subsequent to the decision in Kesavananda Bharati’s case 1973 (4) SCC 225. It was also submitted before that Bench that the doctrine of revival, as it applied to ordinary statutes, did not apply to the Constitutional Amendment and when a part of the Forty-second Amendment, which amended Article 31C, had been held to be invalid it did not result in the automatic revival of the unamended Article 31C. In view of the aforesaid contention which was raised, by dated 1stMay, 1996 reported in 1996 (4) SCC 49, the matter was referred to a larger Bench of not less than five Judges for hearing and deciding these matters. We heard the counsel at length on various issues which arise in these cases. One of the points which arises for consideration relates to the interpretation of Article 39(b) of the Constitution. In State of Karnataka and Anr. Etc. vs. Shri Ranganatha Reddy and Anr. Etc. (1978) 1 SCR 641 validity of Karnataka Contract Carriages (Acquisition) Act, 1976 was challenged and the question which arose was whether the State Government could acquire and then transfer counter-signed portions of Inter State permits to Road Transport Corporation. Two s were delivered in that case. Krishna Iyar, J. for himself and two other learned Judges, while concurring with the decision of Untwalia, J. (with whom three other Judges agreed), interpreted Article 39(b) of the Constitution and then came to the conclusion that the Act had direct nexus with Article 39(b) and by virtue of Article 31C its validity could not be challenged on the ground of its being violative of Article 14 or 19(1) (f) of the Constitution. Untwalia, J. in his observed that “we do not consider it necessary to express any opinion with reference to Article 31C read with Clauses (b) and (c) of Article 39 of the Constitution. Our learned brother Krishna Iyer, J. has prepared a separate especially dealing with this point. We must not be understood to agree with all that he has said in his in this regard”. 186 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports The need to interpret Article 39(b) again arose in the case of Sanjeev Coke Manufacturing Company vs. Bharat Coking Coal Ltd. and Anr. (1983) 1 SCR 1000. While upholding the validity of Coking Coal Mines (Nationalisation) Act, 1972 and the two other connected enactments the Constitutional Bench adopted the interpretation of Article 39(b) as enunciated by Krishna Iyer, J. in Ranganatha Reddy’s case (supra). This interpretation has also been followed by a Division Bench of this Court in State of Maharashtra and Anr. vs. Basantibai Mohanlal Khetan and Ors. (1986) 2 SCC 516. The interpretation put on Article 39(b) by Krishna Iyer, J. in Ranganatha Reddy’s case was not specifically assented to in the majority decision but in Sanjeev Coke’s case (supra) it is the observations in the of Krishna Iyer, J. which have been followed.