The issue with the arbitration clause in CORE (supra) is that it exemplifies a situation where there may be an imbalance of bargaining power, particularly in contracts involving public sector undertakings or large private corporations. In such cases, one party may wield disproportionate influence over the selection of the arbitrator, undermining the fairness of the arbitration process. This imbalance of power makes it imperative that the appointment process be scrutinized carefully to uphold the principle of equality, as laid down in Section 18 of the Arbitration Act. Therefore, the Court erred in refusing to exercise its power under Section 11(6) to appoint an arbitrator, in such a case of complete lack of consensus between the parties. 39. Concerns about the presumed bias of an arbitrator nominated by the claimant must also be tested against the objective standard of independence and impartiality, provided under the Seventh Schedule of the Arbitration Act. The appointment of arbitrators must scrupulously be made through the consent of the parties. The recourse to Section 11 must not be readily inferred in view of the remedies contained in Sections 12, 13, 14 and 15 of the Act. In any case, the scrutiny on whether to intervene has to be on a case-to-case basis. 40. Arbitration without party autonomy prevailing, will be like a redressal mechanism, without spirit. Liberty for the parties opting for Arbitration without equality being enshrined from the stage of inception to conclusion would be like a soulless process. The Arbitration Act as discussed earlier provides for adequate guard rails to ensure that the arbitrator(s) to be appointed are capable of independently discharging their responsibilities. The Sixth and Seventh Schedule requires the proposed arbitrator(s) to disclose any circumstances that might reasonably affect their impartiality, including relationship with the parties, the counsel or the subject matter of the dispute. In this scenario, since parties opt for the arbitration route to avoid redressal in Court, minimal judicial intervention should be the norm. 41. In my view, all unilateral appointments must not be declared void by way of a declaration of this Court. The 2015 Amendment in Section 12(5) itself provides for a specific waiver i.e. (a) an express consent in writing and (b)the consent must be obtained after the dispute has 2292 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports arisen. Therefore, it is abundantly clear that an agreement between the parties(provided it satisfies the specific waiver requirements under Section 12(5)) can effectively cure any concerns about impartiality or independence in such cases. 42. Adequate safeguards are provided within the Arbitration Act to ensure a level playing field as discussed in the preceding paragraphs and therefore to answer the question in this reference, a search within the provisions of the Arbitration Act should first be made. In my view, the obligations of fair treatment should be grounded in the Arbitration Act rather than in the principles of Constitutional or administrative law. The choice of the parties in the agreement should not be disregarded without compelling reasons, through judicial intervention especially when the Arbitration Act provides clear remedies under Sections 12, 13, 14, and 15 of the Arbitration Act.