7. The application filed by petitioner No. 2 was allowed vide dated 26.09.2016, passed by the Civil Court. What weighed in with the Civil Court, while allowing the application was that the dispute which it had to adjudicate in the Civil Suit filed by the Respondent is pending consideration before the Consolidation authorities. In view of the fact that the village where the property is situated has been notified under Section 4(1) (a) of the Consolidation Act, thus, civil suit filed by the Respondent-Plaintiff would stand abated, in terms of Section 5(2) (a) of the Act. 8. Aggrieved by the of the Civil Court, by which his suit stood abated, the Respondent-Plaintiff filed a Miscellaneous Civil Appeal under Section 96 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 before the Additional District Judge, Laksar, District-Haridwar. The Respondent’s appeal was dismissed vide dated 22.11.2018. 9. Invoking the extra-ordinary writ jurisdiction of the High Court under Article 226/227 of the Constitution of India, the respondent challenged 968 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the dated 22.11.2018 of the Additional District Judge, Laksar by filing a Writ Petition before the High Court of Uttarakhand. The learned Single Judge of the High Court, by passing the impugned dated 02.08.2019 allowed the Writ Petition filed by the Respondent & set aside the dated 22.11.2018 of the Additional District Judge, Laksar and consequently ed that the Civil Suit filed by the Respodent be restored to the file of the Civil Judge (Junior Division), Laksar, District-Haridwar. The learned Single Judge, after placing his reliance upon a of this Court in Gorakh Nath Dube v. Hari Narain Singh (1973) 2 SCC 535, came to the conclusion that as the allegation is that the sale deed was executed by playing fraud and by impersonation, it would be a “voidable” document and thus, any suit, for cancellation of a voidable sale deed will not abate by virtue of Section 5(2) (a) of the Consolidation Act. The distinction between ‘void’ and ‘voidable’ documents was made by this Court in the case of Ningawwa v. Byrappa (1968) 2 SCR 797 and this is what was held: 4………………………. It is well established that a contract or other transaction induced or tainted by fraud is not void, but only voidable at the option of the party defrauded. Until it is avoided, the transaction is valid, so that third parties without notice of the fraud may in the meantime acquire rights and interests in the matter which they may enforce against the party defrauded. “The fact that the contract has been induced by fraud does not make the contract void or prevent the property from passing, but merely gives the party defrauded a right on discovering the fraud to elect whether he shall continue to treat the contract as binding or disaffirm the contract and resume the property. If it can be shown that ‘the party defrauded’ has at any time after knowledge of the fraud either by express words or by unequivocal acts affirmed the contract, ‘his’ election is determined for ever.