15. Further in the case Rohit Chaudhary and Another vs. Vipul Limited 6, it was held as follows – “15. The expression “commercial purpose” has not been defined under the Act. In the absence thereof we have to go by its ordinary meaning. “Commercial” denotes “pertaining to commerce” (Chamber’s Twentieth Century Dictionary); it means “connected” with or engaged in commerce; mercantile; “having profit as the main aim” (Collin’s English Dictionary); relate to or is connected with trade and traffic or commerce in general, is occupied with business and commerce. 5 [2023] 3 SCR 448 : (2023) 8 SCC 362 6 [2023] 14 SCR 394 : (2024) 1 SCC 8 428 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 16. The Explanation [added by Consumer Protection (Amendment) Act 50 of 1993 replacing Ordinance 24 of 1993 w.e.f. 18-6-1993] excludes certain purposes from the purview of the expression “commercial purpose” — a case of explanation to an exception to amplify this definition by way of an illustration would certainly clear the clouds surrounding such interpretation. For instance, a person who buys a car for his personal use would certainly be a consumer, but if purchased for plying the car for commercial purposes, namely, as a taxi, it can be said that it is for a commercial purpose. However, the Explanation clarifies that even purchases in certain situations for “commercial purposes” would not take within its sweep the purchaser out of the definition of expression “consumer”. In other words, if the commercial use is by the purchaser himself for the purpose of earning his livelihood by means of self- employment, such purchaser of goods would continue to be a “consumer”. 17. This Court in Lilavati Kirtilal Mehta Medical Trust v. Unique Shanti Developers [Lilavati Kirtilal Mehta Medical Trust v. Unique Shanti Developers, (2020) 2 SCC 265 : (2020) 1 SCC (Civ) 320] , has held that a straitjacket formula cannot be adopted in every case and the broad principles which can be curled out for determining whether an activity or transaction is for a commercial purpose would depend on facts and circumstances of each case. 18. Thus, if the dominant purpose of purchasing the goods or services is for a profit motive and this fact is evident from the record, such purchaser would not fall within the four corners of the definition of “consumer”. On the other hand, if the answer is in the negative, namely, if such person purchases the goods or services is not for any commercial purpose and for one’s own use, it cannot be gainsaid even in such circumstances the transaction would be for a commercial purpose attributing profit motive and thereby excluding such person from the definition of “consumer”.” [2024] 7 S.C.R. 429 M/s Daimler Chrysler India Pvt. Ltd. v. M/s Controls & Switchgear Company Ltd. & Anr. 16. The sum and substance of the above decisions is that to determine whether the goods purchased by a person (which would include a legal entity like a company) were for a commercial purpose or not, within the definition of a “consumer” as contemplated in Section 2(1) (d) of the said Act, would depend upon facts and circumstances of each case.