904 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 15. The ground, upon which the claimant-appellant’s application to file the appeal as an indigent person was rejected, was that she had received compensation by way of the Award of the Tribunal, and therefore, she was not indigent. We find this observation to be belied by the impugned itself as the learned Single Judge has recorded the submission of the counsel for the claimant-appellant that no money stood paid to her at that point in time. So even though she had been awarded a sum, her indigency was not extinguished thereby. Any which way, in our considered view, the High Court was incorrect in rejecting the Misc. Application. 16. There is a further ground on which we find that the High Court erred in not allowing the claimant-appellant to file the appeal. The language used in s XXXIII and XLIV so far as deferring of payment of court fees is concerned, as was observed in Khader International (supra), that if the suit so filed, as an indigent person succeeds, the Court fee shall be deductible from the amount received as a result thereof as if the person who files the suit is not an indigent. 17. XLIV Rule 3(2) provides as under : “3. Inquiry as to whether applicant is an indigent person.-(1)…… (2) Where the applicant, referred to in rule 11, is alleged to have become an indigent person since the date of the decree appealed from, the inquiry into the question whether or not he is an indigent person shall be made by the Appellate Court or, under the s of the Appellate Court, by an officer of that Court unless the Appellate Court considers it necessary in the circumstances of the case that the inquiry should be held by the Court from whose decision the appeal is preferred.” The Appellate Court, in accordance with the above, did not conduct any inquiry. The same was necessitated since nothing on record speaks of the claimant-appellant having filed the claim before the learned Tribunal as an indigent person, in which case she would be covered under Rule 3(1), which provides that no further inquiry would be required in respect of a person who was allowed to sue or appeal as an indigent person if they make an affidavit to the effect that they have not ceased to be an indigent unless the Government [2024] 5 S.C.R. 905 Alifiya Husenbhai Keshariya v. Siddiq Ismail Sindhi & Ors. pleader objects or disputes such claim in which case an inquiry shall be held by the Appellate Court or under the s thereof. 18. On both counts, one, that she had not yet received the money and, therefore, at the time of filing the appeal she was arguably indigent; and second, that the statutory requirement under the C.P.C., as described above, was not met – the of the learned Single Judge has to be set aside. 19. Having observed as above, we allow the appeal and set aside the impugned and dated 7th August, 2018 of the learned Single Judge passed in Misc.