From the above observations of this Court in Swiss Ribbons (supra), the following positions of law may be deduced: a. Once the petition instituted by a creditor is admitted, the proceedings before the NCLT become a ‘collective proceeding’ or a proceeding in rem. Thus, the body which oversees the resolution process, i.e. CoC must be consulted before allowing the claim to be settled; b. This Court recognized that there was a lacuna in relation to cases where the CoC had not been formed. Accordingly, it was held that, in such cases, the party can approach the NCLT directly, and the NCLT may exercise its inherent powers under Rule 11 to allow or disallow the application for settlement/withdrawal. However, given the in rem nature of the proceedings, such an application must be decided only after hearing all the parties concerned and considering the relevant factors in the case; c. This high threshold of a ninety-percent voting share of the CoC is not arbitrary. The idea is that the financial creditors have to put their heads together to allow such withdrawal; and d. Under Section 60 of the IBC, the decision of the CoC to reject or accept the settlement claim can be challenged before the NCLT and then, the NCLAT. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1839 GLAS Trust Company LLC v. BYJU Raveendran & Ors. 59. In response to the lacunae identified by this Court in Swiss Ribbons (supra) and Brilliant Alloy Private Limited (supra), an amendment was made to Regulation 30A of the CIRP Regulations.44 This amendment came into effect on 25 July 2019 and Regulation 30A in its present form reads as follows: “30A. Withdrawal of application. (1) An application for withdrawal under section 12A may be made to the Adjudicating Authority – (a) before the constitution of the committee, by the applicant through the interim resolution professional; (b) after the constitution of the committee, by the applicant through the interim resolution professional or the resolution professional, as the case may be: Provided that where the application is made under clause (b) after the issue of invitation for expression of interest under regulation 36A, the applicant shall state the reasons justifying withdrawal after issue of such invitation. (2) The application under sub-regulation (1) shall be made in Form FA of the Schedule-I accompanied by a bank guarantee- (a) towards estimated expenses incurred on or by the interim resolution professional for purposes of regulation 33, till the date of filing of the application under clause (a) of sub- regulation (1); or (b) towards estimated expenses incurred for purposes of clauses (aa), (ab), (c) and (d) of regulation 31, till the date of filing of the application under clause (b) of sub- regulation (1). (3) Where an application for withdrawal is under clause (a) of sub-regulation (1), the interim resolution professional shall submit the application to the Adjudicating Authority on behalf of the applicant, within three days of its receipt. 44 Notification No. IBBI/2019-20/GN/REG048, dated 25th July, 2019 (w.e.f. 25-07-2019) 1840 [2024] 10 S.C.R.