These forced conjugal unions can take place during armed conflict or ‘peacetime’ mass atrocity, and under oppressive regimes, and can occur regardless of the victim’s existing marriage status.” (emphasis supplied) i. Right to free choice and autonomy 144. The issue of forced marriage is intricately linked to child marriage, as both practices deny individuals, particularly minors, the fundamental [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1591 Society for Enlightenment and Voluntary Action & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. right to make autonomous decisions regarding their lives. The imposition of forced marriage reflects the broader systemic issue of coerced relationships that deny the victims agency and autonomy. This lack of agency is heightened in the context of child marriage, where children are subjected to societal and familial pressures that undermine their ability to give informed consent. This mirrors the definition of forced marriage as articulated in international law, where relational autonomy is violated, and the individual’s right to freely choose a partner is disregarded. International law has evolved a rights-based framework to address myriad issues. Child marriage is an evil against which the international community has reflected its commitment through the recognition of rights. These rights are traced below. 145. This encompasses the right to free and informed consent and the right against gender-based violence.210 These interconnected rights form the foundation for ensuring that marriage is a consensual partnership rather than a coercive arrangement, particularly when addressing the issue of child marriage. a. Right to free and informed consent 146. Various international instruments211 emphasize the necessity for parties entering into marriage to provide free and full consent. CEDAW’s General Recommendations on Marriage and family relations further elucidate that when men and women marry, they assume important responsibilities. Consequently, marriage should not be permitted before they attain full maturity and capacity to act.212 For women to exercise full, free, and informed consent as outlined in Article 16(1)(b) of CEDAW,213 they must possess the cognitive capacity to comprehend the meaning and responsibilities associated with marriage. This entails having access to comprehensive information about their potential spouse, understanding the institution 210 ‘GBV’ 211 See Article 16(2) of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) 1948, Article 10(1) of the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights (ICESCR) 1966, Article 23(3) of the ICCPR, Article 1 of the UN Convention on Consent to Marriage, Minimum Age for Marriage and Registration of Marriages 1962, Article 16(1)(b) of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW) 1975, Article 17(3) of the American Convention on Human Rights 1969, and Article 33 of the Arab Charter on Human Rights 2004. 212 UN Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination Against Women, CEDAW General Recommendation No. 21: Equality in Marriage and Family Relations 1994, para 16. 213 CEDAW, article 16(1)b states ‘The same right freely to choose a spouse and to enter into marriage only with their free and full consent’. 1592 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of marriage, and recognizing their rights to choose if, when, and whom to marry.