(5) Without prejudice to the other powers conferred under this Act, the Special Court shall have, for the purposes of discharging its functions under this section, the same powers as are vested in a civil court under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908), while trying a suit, in respect of the following matters, namely: — (a) summoning and enforcing the attendance of any person and examining him on oath; (b) requiring the discovery and production of documents; (c) receiving evidence on affidavits; [2024] 3 S.C.R. 307 Suman L. Shah v. The Custodian & Ors. (d) subject to the provisions of sections 123 and 124 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (1 of 1872), requisitioning any public record or document or copy of such record or document from any office; (e) issuing commissions for the examination of witnesses or documents; (f) reviewing its decisions; (g) dismissing a case for default or deciding it ex parte; (h) setting aside any of dismissal of any case for default or any passed by it ex parte; and (i) any other matter which may be prescribed by the Central Government under sub-section (1) of section 14.” 35. From a bare perusal of these provisions, it would become clear that the properties of the person notified under Section 3(2) would stand attached automatically with effect from the date of notification by virtue of Section 3(3). Since respondent No.2- Pallav Sheth was notified (as being a debtor of the originally notified company FFSL) with effect from 6th October, 2001, a fortiori, his properties would be deemed to be attached with effect from that date and not prior thereto. 36. The appellants herein took a pertinent plea before the Special Court that the dues towards respondent Nos. 6, 7 and 8, generated from borrowings made in the years 1996-1997 stood repaid and closed because the amounts had been repaid by cheque(s) and by way of adjustments towards materials supplied. The applications for recovery having been filed by the Custodian with the allegation that the appellants herein were the debtors of the benami companies of the notified person, the primary onus of proving this assertion would be on the Custodian by virtue of Section 101 of Evidence Act. It is only after the Custodian discharged this primary burden and established the existence of the debt, then by virtue of Section 102 of the Evidence Act, perhaps, the onus could be shifted on to the appellants to rebut the same. 37. The entire case of the Custodian regarding subsisting debts of the appellant towards respondent Nos. 6, 7 and 8 was based on 308 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports a communication received from the Income Tax Department. The appropriate witness to prove such communication would be the official concerned from the Income Tax Department. However, as has been mentioned above, no witness from the Income Tax Department was examined in support of the recovery application. Even the communication forwarded by the Income Tax Department and relied upon by the Custodian was not proved by proper evidence.