159. Thus, an immigrant whose name figures in the electoral roll, despite being a foreigner, continues to be eligible to vote in the elections till that person is detected as a foreigner and the name of that person is struck off the electoral roll. There being no temporal limit to the applicability of Section 6A, this situation would continue in the years to come till the detection exercise is completed. Further, there would never be any way to assess if all the immigrants eligible for availing the benefit of citizenship under Section 6A(3) have done so, despite the set of people eligible for such a benefit being distinct and determinable. The object of Section 6A(3) of the Citizenship Act was never to permit the immigrants of the 1966-71 stream to vote for an indefinite period of time without first having been deleted from the electoral rolls for a period of ten years or without having been conferred de-jure citizenship in the first place. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1209 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 160. One another way of looking at the aforesaid is by the use of ‘time triggers.’ In the case of an immigrant of the pre-1966 stream, the date of coming into effect of Section 6A acts as the terminative time trigger with respect to the status of that person as an ‘illegal immigrant’ and at the same time, it also acts as the allocative time trigger with respect to that person’s status as a citizen of India. That is, on the date of commencement of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 1985, such a person ceases to be an illegal immigrant and becomes a citizen in the eyes of the law as per the deeming fiction provided in Section 6A sub-section (2). 161. However, in the case of an immigrant belonging to the 1966- 71 stream, the situation is much more complicated. Even after the commencement of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 1985, an immigrant belonging to this class continues to be an illegal immigrant till the date of his or her detection as a foreigner. This date of detection then becomes the allocative trigger, conferring upon such person a right to register. Subsequent and subject to registration, the immigrant then enjoys all the rights similar to that of a citizen except voting rights for a period of ten years from the date of detection as a foreigner. On expiry of the period of ten years from the date of detection, an allocative time trigger confers the status of de-jure citizenship on that person on the day the ten-year period comes to an end. 162. The consequence of devising a complex and deceptive mechanism under Section 6A(3) by the legislature is brought to daylight by virtue of the aforesaid analysis. While the object of Section 6A(3), as discussed elaborately in the preceding paragraphs, was to make conferment of citizenship a stricter affair as compared to Section 6A(2) and to facilitate the deletion of immigrants of the 1966-71 stream from the electoral rolls through the exercise of detection, however, the shifting of onus of detection on the state coupled with the absence of any temporal limit ensures that such an immigrant continues to stay on the electoral rolls and enjoy the rights of being a de-facto citizen till the time detection takes place, if it ever takes place.