City wise and center wise analysis was done for two years (2023 and 2024) to find out if there are any abnormal indications. The Analysis is carried out for the Top 1.4 lakh ranks given that the total number of seats across the country is around 1.1 lakhs. 74 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports c. This Analysis is granular enough to indicate any abnormality, had a large number of students gotten into high ranks (top 5%), due to malpractice or if students from a particular exam-centre or city were benefitted. d. The analysis shows that there is neither any indication of mass malpractice nor a localized set of candidate being benefitted leading to abnormal scores. e. There is an overall increase in the marks obtained by students, specifically in the range of 550 to 720. This increase is seen across the cities and centres. This is attributed to 25% reduction in syllabus. In addition, candidates obtaining such high marks are spread across multiple cities and multiple centers, indicating very less likelihood of malpractice.” 56. Counsel for the petitioners expressed concerns about the independence and impartiality of the Director of IIT, Madras who signed the report analysing the data. The concern stemmed from the position held by the Director in the General Body of NTA. 57. By a notification dated 6 March 2019, the Ministry of Human Resource Development (which is now the Ministry of Education) constituted the General Body of NTA. The relevant part of the notification is extracted below: “(iii) Three Directors of IITs in their ex officio capacity as the present, preceding and succeeding chairpersons of JEE (Advanced) – Member” 58. Since JEE (Advanced) was conducted by IIT Madras this year, the Director of the institution was the ex-officio member of the General Body by virtue of the notification referred to above. The bye-laws of NTA define the role of the General Body inter alia as providing overall policy guidance and direction, considering and approving the balance sheet and annual audited accounts presented by the Member Secretary along with the remarks of the Managing Committee, considering and approving the annual report, recommending the annual action plan and budget for the each year, nominating members of the General Body in terms of the relevant rules, delegating any [2024] 8 S.C.R. 75 Vanshika Yadav v. Union of India & Ors. of its powers to the Managing Committee or the Member Secretary, creating or abolishing posts in NTA, determining the procedure for appointment of persons to various posts, appointing committees or sub-committees for any purpose, demanding and receiving fees of the exams and tests conducted by NTA, and acquiring properties and investing surplus funds. 59. The functions of the Managing Committee are also set out in the bye-laws. They include taking all operational decisions, managing the resources of NTA, handling its activities, monitoring the financial position to ensure smooth income flow, provide comments or inputs on the annual statements, annual reports, and other reports placed before the General Body.