Ext. B1 is a copy of the registered deed. In the document it is mentioned that the property was obtained as per Ext. A2 mortgage deed and it was in the possession and enjoyment of the children of Parukutty Amma. So this document confirms that Neelakanda Menon and other claimed right over the property only under Ext. A2 mortgage deed. In 1981 the children of Parukutty Amma executed Ext. B3 partition deed dividing the plaint schedule 2nd item property amongst themselves. The recitals in this document prove that they claimed right over the property only under Ext A2 mortgage deed (the -number of the document is wrongly shown as 3177). So the executants of Ext. B3 partition deed do not claim to have obtained right over the property independent of Ext. A2 mortgage deed. The contention of the defendants that the property belonged to Sankaran Padmanbhan is correct only to an extent; he had right only as a member of the marumakkathayam tavazhy of his mother. When Sankaran Padmanabhan died his mother, Parvathy, became its absolute owner. She put it in the possession of Parukutty Amma and later executed Ext. A2 mortgage deed. The plaintiffs are descendants of Parukutty Amma in the female line. The evidence proves that the plaint schedule second item property also belonged to the tavazhy of Parukutty Amma.” 54. The observations of the High Court are already reflected in Para 16 of this . 55. It is evident from the above that findings with respect to schedule properties in item No.2 are concurrent. This Court has reiterated many times9 that concurrent findings of fact are not to be generally interfered 9 Srinivas Ram Kumar vs. Mahabir Prasad and Ors. 1951 SCC 136; Sree Sree Iswar Gopal Jieu Thakur v. Pratapmal Bagaria, AIR 1951 SCC 214; Addagada Raghavamma And Anr v. Addagada Chenchamma 1964 AIR SC 136; Variety Emporium v. V.R.M. Mohd. Ibrahim Naina (1985) 1 SCC 251; Indira Kaur v. Sheo Lal Kapoor (1988) 2 SCC 488; Mithilesh Kumari & Anr vs Prem Behari Khare (1989) 2 SCC 95; 1040 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports with unless special circumstances are shown warranting such interference. The scenarios in which exercise of power under Article 136 of the Constitution of India would be proper, non- exhaustively, can be culled out as thus: 55.1 Interference in concurrent findings has been termed justified if the finding - a) recorded does not emanate from the pleadings; b) is foreign to or entirely divorced from the evidence on record; c) is reached on the basis of the evidence which is irrelevant or extraneous and material evidence is ignored affecting its sanctity; d) runs contrary to any provision of law; e) is such that a reasonable judicial mind could not have arrived at it and/or the same is arbitrary; f) arrived at is perverse and the soundness of reason is compromised. 55.2 Apart from the above-mentioned scenarios, a Court would also be justified in interfering with findings concurrent in nature if it is of the view that they cause undue hardship to the parties.