It is pertinent to note that the empowered Gazetted Officer must have reason to believe that an offence has been committed under Chapter IV of the NDPS Act 1985, which necessitated the arrest or search. As per Section 41(2) of the NDPS Act 1985, such reason to believe must arise from either personal knowledge of the said Gazetted Officer or information given by any person to him. Additionally, such knowledge or information is required to be reduced into writing by virtue of expression “and taken in writing” used therein.’ 43. The learned Counsel of the Respondent No. 02 presents an alternate argument that the expressions “personal knowledge” and “and taken in writing” contemplated by Section 41(2) of the NDPS Act 1985 ought to be read disjunctively, thereby eliminating the requirement of taking down information in writing when it arises out of the personal knowledge of the Gazetted Officer. We are not inclined to accept this interpretation. The position for recording the reasons for conducting search and seizure are well established through the ratio in paragraph number 25 (2C) in Balbir Singh case (supra) as mentioned below: “(2-C) Under Section 42(1) the empowered officer if has a prior information given by any person, that should necessarily be taken down in writing. But if he has reason to believe from personal knowledge that offences under Chapter IV have been committed or materials which may furnish evidence of commission of such offences are concealed in any building etc. he may carry out the arrest or search without a warrant between sunrise and sunset and this provision does not mandate that he should record his reasons of belief. But under the proviso to Section 42(1) if such officer has to carry out such search between sunset and sunrise, he must record the grounds of his belief. [2024] 4 S.C.R. 469 Smt. Najmunisha v. The State of Gujarat To this extent these provisions are mandatory and contravention of the same would affect the prosecution case and vitiate the trial.” 44. Applying the aforesaid legal position to the present factual matrix, we do not find force in the submission that the raiding party proceeded to conduct search at the house on personal knowledge of the Gazetted Officer, Mr Tomar. Foremost, the fact that the secret information received by Mrs Chaube was limited to anticipation of Accused No. 04 carrying contraband from a particular route in an auto rickshaw, remains unchallenged. Accordingly, there was no prior information to the raiding party, including Mr Tomar (Gazetted Officer) that there is contraband in the house of Accused No. 04, thereby necessitating search for the same. Additionally, it is deposed by the PW-01 that he was asked to accompany the raiding party to the house of Accused No. 04, which was located nearby for the purpose of carrying out a search thereof and admits of having no knowledge about any written information with the raiding party for conducting raid at the said house. Further, Mrs Chaube in her examination in chief stated that upon the directions of Mr Tomar that the house of Accused No.