While dilapidated buildings in the island city of Mumbai may fall within the ambit of ‘resources’, they cannot constitute ‘material resources of the community’; and c. The minority opinion authored by Justice Krishna Iyer in Ranganatha Reddy and subsequently followed in Sanjeev Coke was rendered in the context of ‘nationalisation’ and the same context cannot be supplanted in the context of the MHADA Act. 77. Ms Uttara Babbar, senior counsel for one of the intervenors75 supplemented the arguments of the counsel for the appellants and made the following submissions: a. The decision in Sanjeev Coke and the observations in Mafatlal that ‘material resources of the community’ include privately owned resources are not good law. The interpretation of Article 39(b) advanced by Justice Krishna Iyer in Ranganatha Reddy relied on in these decisions was part of the minority opinion, from which the majority had distanced itself; b. Further, in Sanjeev Coke, the Court expressed its ‘misgivings’ about the decision in Minerva Mills. However, this was not permissible as Minerva Mills was rendered by a bench of co- equal strength. Similarly, observations in Sanjeev Coke about the validity of Article 31-C as amended by the Forty-Second Amendment were beyond the lis before it; c. In Mafatlal Industries, the nine-judge bench carried forward the error by relying on the decision in Sanjeev Coke and the observations of Justice Iyer in Ranganatha Reddy; d. The words “of the community” used in Article 39(b) must be understood as distinct from the ‘individual’. An interpretation of the Article that provides that resources of the individual are part of the community, renders the use of the phrase “of the community” otiose; e. Article 39(b) mandatorily requires “distribution” of “ownership and control” of the resources in question. This pre-supposes the acquisition of the resource by the state and cannot include 75 I.A. No. 28541 of 2024. 98 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports laws that provide for the acquisition of private resources by the state. The protection of Article 31-C and Article 39(b) comes in only at the stage of distribution and not at the anterior stage of acquisition of assets by the state or vesting; f. Acquisition of resources is permissible under the various other powers of the legislature, including the power of eminent domain and would get other protections such as the protection of Article 31-A. However, laws which provide for acquisition cannot be interpreted to be giving effect to Article 39(b) and must meet the muster of Articles 14 and 19; and g. The Constituent Assembly discussed the proposal for an amendment to the draft text of the present Article 39(b). The proposal entailed that the provision be read as “material resources…shall be vested in and belong to the country collectively”. However, this amendment was rejected. The assembly consciously chose to use the phrase “material resources…are so distributed”, rather than “material resources …shall be vested”, indicating that it does not encompass the acquisition or vesting of private resources. 78. The counsel for the appellants also sought to argue that the constitutional jurisprudence with regard to fundamental rights has undergone a sea change since Kesavananda Bharati.