Similarly, in E. Palanisamy v. Palanisamy [(2003) 1 SCC 123] (vide para 5) this Court observed: (SCC p. 127) ‘5. Equitable considerations have no place where the statute contained express provisions.’ [2024] 2 S.C.R. 87 The Authorised Officer, Central Bank of India v. Shanmugavelu 36. In India House v. Kishan N. Lalwani [(2003) 9 SCC 393] (vide para 7) this Court held that: (SCC p. 398) ‘7. … The period of limitation statutorily prescribed has to be strictly adhered to and cannot be relaxed or departed from for equitable considerations.’…” 113. Thus, the High Court erred in law by holding that forfeiture of the entire deposit under Rule 9 sub-rule (5) of the SARFAESI Rules by the appellant bank after having already recovered its dues from the subsequent sale amounts to unjust enrichment. iv) Whether Any Exceptional Circumstances exist to set aside the forfeiture of the earnest money deposit? 114. The last aspect which remains to be determined is whether any exceptional circumstances exist to set aside the forfeiture of the respondent’s earnest money deposit? 115. This Court in its decision in Alisha Khan v. Indian Bank (Allahabad Bank) & Ors. reported in 2021 SCC OnLine SC 3340 had directed the refund of the earnest-money deposit after forfeiture to the successful auction purchaser who was unable to pay the balance amount on account of the Pandemic. The relevant observations are being reproduced below: “3. Having gone through the impugned and s passed by the High Court, we are of the opinion that the High Court ought to have allowed the refund of the amount deposited being 25% of the auction sale consideration. Considering the fact that though initially the appellant deposited 25% of the auction sale consideration, however, subsequently she could not deposit balance 75% due to COVID-19 pandemic. It is required to be noted that subsequently the fresh auction has taken place and the property has been sold. It is not the case of the respondents that in the subsequent sale, lesser amount is received. Thus, as such, there is no loss caused to the respondents. 4. Considering the aforesaid facts and circumstances, we allow these appeals and set aside the of forfeiture of 25% of the amount of auction sale consideration and direct the respondent Bank to refund/return the amount 88 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports earlier deposited by the appellant, deposited as the part auction sale consideration (minus 50,000/- towards the expenditure which were required to be incurred by the respondent Bank for conducting the fresh auction) within a period of four weeks from today.” 116. In C. Natarajan (supra), this Court while affirming the decision of Alisha Khan (supra) observed that after the earnest-money deposit is forfeited, the courts should ordinarily refrain from interfering unless the existence of very rare and exceptional circumstances are shown. The relevant observations read as under: - “13. ... If, however, circumstances are shown to exist where a bidder is faced with such a grave disability that he has no other option but to seek extension of time on genuine grounds so as not to exceed the stipulated period of ninety days and the prayer is rejected without due consideration of all facts and circumstances, refusal of the prayer for extension could afford a ground for a judicial review of the decision-making process on valid ground(s).