The opinion of Lord Asquith in East End Dwelling Co. Ltd. v. Finsbury Borough Council159 is the leading case for this proposition. The Law Lord observed that the effect of a legal fiction must not be limited to treating facts that do not exist as real but must be expanded to understand the effects and consequences that flow from the legal fiction.160 However, a law creating a deeming fiction cannot create presumptions in favor of a legal consequence but only presumptions about facts from which certain legal consequences may follow. In Delhi Cloth & General Mills Co. Ltd v. State of Rajasthan,161 the constitutional validity of the Kota Municipal Limits (Continued Existence) Validating Act of 1975 was challenged. The Municipalities Act prescribed a mandatory procedure for delimitation of municipalities including a public notice inviting objections. This mandatory procedure was flouted in the inclusion and exclusion of certain villages to and from the Kota municipality in the State. The Validating Act provided that notwithstanding the mandatory provisions of the Municipalities Act, those villages would be deemed to have always continued to exist as they do within the limits of Kota municipality. The Court held that the Validating Act required the deeming of a legal position rather than the deeming of a fact from which such legal consequence would follow. The Bench found that this was not a permissible creation of a fiction. Article 341 must be interpreted based on the above principles. was created here was only for the purpose of determining whether a particular sale was an outside sale or one which could be deemed to have taken place inside the State and that was the only scope of the provision. It would be an illegitimate extension of the purpose of the legal fiction to say that it was also created for the purpose of converting the inter-State character of the transaction into an intra-State one. This type of conversion could not have been in the contemplation of the Constitution-makers and is contrary to the express purpose for which the legal fiction was created as set out in the Explanation to Article 286(1)(a). [emphasis supplied] 159 LR 1952 AC 109 160 ibid at page 132. “If you are bidden to treat an imaginary state of affairs as real, you must surely, unless prohibited from doing so, also imagine as real the consequence and incidents which, if the putative state of affairs had in fact existed, must inevitably have flowed from or accompanied it.... The statute says that you must imagine a certain state of affairs; it does not say that having done so, you must cause or permit your imagination to boggle when it comes to the inevitable corollaries of that state of affairs.” 161 [1980] 3 SCR 1109 : (1976) 3 SCC 443. 1396 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports c. Article 341 does not create a deeming fiction 109. In Punit Rai v. Dinesh Chaudhary,162 the issue before a three- Judge Bench of this Court was whether the Respondent, who contested an election for a seat reserved for the Scheduled Castes in the Legislative Assembly, belonged to the Scheduled Caste community.