The report also notes that a representation was made by one of the Petitioners to the Chief Justice of India against non-consideration for elevation. This letter, it is alleged was contemptuous. 8. When the present matter was next heard on 23rd July, 2024, this Court called for the Supreme Court Resolution dated 4th January, 2024 as the parties wanted to be sure of the same, to make further submissions. A copy of the Supreme Court resolution was then produced before this Court and was allowed to be perused by the respective counsel for the parties. SUBMISSIONS 9.1. Mr. Datar, the learned Senior Counsel projected that the two petitioners were direct recruits and the seniormost district judges in the State of Himachal Pradesh. Over the last two decades, both have had a blemish-free record and all their 17 ACRs have either been ‘Outstanding’ or ‘Excellent’. It was then submitted that as the two seniormost judges, they have a constitutional right for reconsideration of their names. Referring to paragraph-10 of the Registrar General’s Report, the senior counsel argues that the issue of elevation has to be collectively considered by the High Court Collegium and not by the Chief Justice acting alone. As regards the letter written by one of the judicial officers to the Chief Justice of India, it was submitted that it only highlights his judicial journey and the anguish for not being considered for elevation despite 17 years of exemplary service. According to Mr. Datar, the letter does not contain any insinuation against members of the Supreme Court Collegium and is not contemptuous or disrespectful or in bad taste as is alleged in the Report of the Registrar General. 9.2. On maintainability, it was submitted that the present writ petition is limited to ‘lack of effective consultation’ and hence is maintainable. [2024] 9 S.C.R. 157 Chirag Bhanu Singh & Anr. v. High Court of Himachal Pradesh & Ors. Reliance has been placed on the decisions of this Court in Mahesh Chandra Gupta v. Union of India1 (for short “Mahesh Chandra Gupta”), where it was held that the issues of ‘eligibility’ and ‘effective consultation’ would be within the realm of judicial review. This was followed in M. Manohar Reddy v. Union of India 2 and reiterated recently in Anna Mathews v. Supreme Court of India 3 where it was held that judicial review is restricted to ‘eligibility’ and not ‘suitability’ or ‘content of consultation’. It was also submitted that the consideration by the Collegium collectively is an in-built check against the likelihood of arbitrariness or bias. 9.3. On the other hand, Dr. S. Muralidhar, Learned Senior Counsel appearing for the High Court of Himachal Pradesh argued that the present writ petition is not maintainable. The prayer for reconsideration is, in effect, a request for judicial review over the ‘suitability’ of the candidates. To highlight the limited scope of judicial review, reliance has been placed on the decisions of this Court in Supreme Court Advocates-on-Record Assn. v. Union of India 4 (for short “Second Judges case”), Mahesh Chandra Gupta (supra),5 M. Manohar Reddy v. Union of India,6 Registrar General, Madras High Court v. R. Gandhi,7 Common Cause v. Union of India 8 and Anna Mathews v. Supreme Court of India.9 9.4.