15. For the above reasons, we have come to the conclusion that the broader constitutional issue which has been referred in Tej Prakash Pathak (supra) would not merit decision on the facts of the present case. Clearly, the decision which was taken by the High Court was ultra vires Rule 2(c)(iii) as it stands. As a matter of fact, during the course of the hearing we have been apprised of the fact that the Rules have been subsequently amended in 2017 so as to prescribe a cut off of 35% marks in the viva-voce examination which however was not the prevailing legal position when the present process of selection was initiated on 30 September 2015. The Administrative Committee of the High Court [2024] 2 S.C.R. 241 Sushil Kumar Pandey & Ors. v. The High Court of Jharkhand & Anr. decided to impose a cut off for the viva-voce examination actuated by the bona fide reason of ensuring that candidates with requisite personality assume judicial office. However laudable that approach of the Administrative Committee may have been, such a change would be required to be brought in by a substantive amendment to the Rules which came in much later as noticed above. This is not a case where the rules or the scheme of the High Court were silent. Where the statutory rules are silent, they can be supplemented in a manner consistent with the object and spirit of the Rules by an administrative .” 24. The ratio of this authority is squarely applicable in the facts of this case. Submission on behalf of the High Court administration that Rule 14 permits them to alter the selection criteria after the selection process is concluded and marks are declared is not proper exposition of the said provision. The said Rule, in our opinion, empowers the High Court administration in specific cases to reassess the suitability and eligibility of a candidate in a special situation by calling for additional documents. The High Court administration cannot take aid of this Rule to take a blanket decision for making departure from the selection criteria specified in the 2001 Rules. The content of Rule 14 has the tenor of a verification process of an individual candidate in assessing the suitability or eligibility. 25. We, accordingly, allow both the writ petitions by directing the High Court to make recommendation for those candidates who have been successful as per the merit or select list, for filing up the subsisting notified vacancies without applying the Full Court Resolution that requires each candidate to get 50 per cent aggregate marks. The part of the Full Court Resolution of the Jharkhand High Court dated 23.03.2023 by which it was decided that only those candidates who have secured at least 50% marks in aggregate shall be qualified for appointment to the post of District Judge is quashed. 26. We expect the exercise of recommendation in terms of this to be completed as expeditiously as possible. 27. We do not find any reason to address the impleadment applications as this will cover the entire recommendation process.