216 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (4) There shall be a Council of Ministers consisting of not more than ten per cent of the total number of members in the Legislative Assembly, with the Chief Minister at the head to aid and advise the Lt. Governor in the exercise of his functions in relation to matters with respect to which the Legislative Assembly has power to make laws, except in so far as he is, by or under any law, required to act in his discretion. Provided that in the case of difference of opinion between the Lieutenant Governor and his Ministers on any matter, the Lieutenant Governor shall refer it to the President for decision and act according to the decision given thereon by the President and pending such decision it shall be competent for the Lieutenant Governor in any case where the matter, in his opinion, is so urgent that it is necessary for him to take immediate action, to take such action or to give such direction in the matter as he deems necessary. (5)… (6)…” 12. Following the introduction of Articles 239AA and 239AB, Parliament enacted the GNCTD Act, 1991 to give full effect to the constitutional amendment. Part IV of the GNCTD Act relates to ‘Lieutenant Governor and Ministers’ and Sections 41 to 45 falling under this Part are relevant for our purpose and we will refer them at the relevant place. Judicial Interpretation of Article 239AA and GNCTD Act: 13. The distribution of legislative powers between the Parliament and the Legislative Assembly of NCTD, as well as the distribution of the executive powers between the Union Government and the Government of NCTD was discussed and basic principles were laid down in the two Constitution Bench s of 2018 in State (NCT of Delhi) v. Union of India16 and of 2023 in Government of NCT of Delhi v. Union of India.17 16 Supra no. 9 17 Supra no. 10 [2024] 8 S.C.R. 217 Government of NCT of Delhi v. Office of Lieutenant Governor of Delhi 14. The 2023 decision of the Constitution Bench in Government of NCT of Delhi v. Union of India reaffirmed the unique position of NCTD enunciated in the 2018 decision- that its Legislative Assembly has competence to make laws for all matters enumerated in List II and List III (except with respect to entries 1, 2 & 18 of List II). While Union has executive power with respect to matters concerning entries 1, 2 & 18 of List II, the Government of NCTD has executive power with respect to all matters in List II as well as List III (except of course for matters with respect to entries 1, 2 & 18 of List II). 15. Article 239AA(3)(b) confers legislative power on the Parliament to make laws on any and all matters in Lists II and III. Article 239AA(3)(c) further provides that in case the Parliament exercises such legislative power, any law passed by the Legislative Assembly of NCTD shall be void to the extent of repugnancy with the Parliamentary law.