It has to be held that non-grant of opportunity during the proceedings held before the Collector does not vitiate the action taken against the petitioners as they were given full and reasonable opportunity by the Commissioner before passing the and petitioners having availed of the same, cannot have any grievance on this count. Accordingly, the second ground of attack also fails being unsustainable.” The above finding for a start overlooks Rule 5(1)(b) and the body of case law that are relevant. 48. The question about whether at all the breach of natural justice can be cured at the appellate stage and if so in what circumstances has vexed the courts for the last several decades. In England, it was Lord Megarry who spoke first in Leary vs. National Union of Vehicle Builders, [1970] 2 All ER 713. The learned Judge had no doubt in his mind when he proclaimed, “As a general rule, at all events, I hold that a failure of natural justice in the trial body cannot be cured by a sufficiency of natural justice in an appellate body.” This remained the legal position till Ferd Dawson Calvin vs. John Henry Brownlow Carr & Ors., (1979) 2 WLR 755 came on the horizon. Lord Wilberforce, speaking for the Privy Council felt that the principle elucidated by Lord Megarry was too broadly stated. The Privy Council held: “It remains to apply the principles above stated to the facts of the present case. In the first place, their Lordships 216 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports are clearly of the view that the proceedings before the Committee were in the nature of an appeal, not by way of an invocation, or use, of whatever original jurisdiction the Committee may have had. The nature of the appeal is laid down by Section 32 of the Australian Jockey Club Act 1873, and by the Rules. Under the Act, the appeal is to be in the nature of a re-hearing - a technical expression which does little more than entitle the Committee to review the facts as at the date when the appeal is heard (see Builders Licensing Board (N.S.W.) v. Sperway Constructions (Sydney) Pty. Ltd. (1976) 51 A.L.J.R. 260, 261, per Mason J. ), not one which automatically insulates their findings from those of the Stewards. The decision is to be “ upon the real merits and justice of the case “ -- an injunction to avoid technicalities and the slavish following of precedents but not one which entitles the Committee to brush aside defective or improper proceedings before the Stewards. The section is then required to be construed as supplemental to and not in derogation of or limited by the Rules of Racing. This brings the matter of disputes and discipline clearly into the consensual field. The Rules of Racing (Local Rules 70-74) allow the Committee to take account of evidence already taken and of additional evidence, and confer wide powers as to the disposal of appeals.” 49. The issue was again grappled with by the House of Lords in Lloyd and Others vs. McMahon, [1987] 1 AC 625 which ultimately gravitated to the view that the answer to the question would depend on the particular statutory provision providing for the higher remedy.