He said that- SP and PI had beaten up very severely. In the hand and leg, marks of stick could be seen. When my sister touched the body of my brother, at that time there was swallowing……. 5……Thereafter on 12/2/92, at eleven or quarter to eleven hours in the morning, two police persons came to our’ home. They said that Jeeva has died.” 384 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Cross-Examination of Dhanlakshmi Vaiyapuri(PW-2) “6…..It is true that, arresting my brother under PASA , he was set up in the jail outside Ahmedabad…… 8……It is true that in the portion inside the police station, Jeeva and Anna were taken and our advocate was with them and at that time the inside portion could not seen….. 12….It is not true that in my statement dated 13/6/92 I have stated that, “ on the next day on 11/6/92, at nine hours in the morning I and my sister Selvin and my sister in law all the three of us had gone to the Amraivadi Police Station for giving snack to my brother but my brother did not eat the snack. My sister stayed back to have talk with my brother. I and my sister in law Meenaben were sitting outside the police station”…. 12…For an hour Jeevo was in the Court of the Metropolitan Magistrate. I had seen Jeeva in Court No. 7. I am not aware as to whether on that day whether the Magistrate of Court No. 7 was on leave or not?.... 12.…..My brother Jeeva was taken at Karanj Bhavan on the upper floor where there is staircase and from the staircase, one can go upstairs about which I am not aware….” 22. From the testimony of Selvin Prabhakar(PW-1) and Dhanlakshmi Vaiyapuri(PW-2), it is evident that Jeeva(deceased) was having long standing criminal antecedents and there were allegations of bootlegging against him. He had also been detained under the Gujarat Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Act, 1985. Likewise, the evidence of the prosecution witnesses(PW-1 and PW-2) also reveals that Anna Dorai who too was arraigned as accused with Jeeva(deceased) in C.R. No. 555 of 1992 also had similar criminal antecedents. However, as per these prosecution witnesses, Jeeva(deceased) was singled out for the custodial torture whereas even a finger was not laid on Anna Dorai by A1 and A2. This creates a doubt in the mind of the Court on the truthfulness of the allegations set out in the evidence of the two sisters of Jeeva, i.e., PW-1 and PW-2. 23. PW-1 and PW-2 claim to have personally witnessed the assault being made on Jeeva. In this background, there is a serious question mark on the claim of PW-1 that after being produced in the Court, [2024] 7 S.C.R. 385 Vinod Jaswantray Vyas (Dead) Through Lrs v. The State of Gujarat Jeeva talked to her in Tamil language and that he was weeping and when the witness asked Jeeva for the reason of his grief, he told her that the police personnel had beaten him up and he was under severe pain and was unable to standup.