Importantly, the Agreement did not record that the sellers were under any obligation to share such certificate. Thus, in the absence of such obligation, one has to presume that the buyer was duly satisfied with the sellers’ title to the property and as such did not, consciously, insist on making such obligation a part of the Agreement of sharing of the ‘encumbrance certificate’ prior to performance of the agreed terms. It is common knowledge that none interested in buying an expensive property would agree to terms leaving himself/herself at a potential risk of facing litigation in future. Even in the absence of an express term and if it were accepted that the obligation is an implied requirement of the Agreement, the buyer would have done well to close the deal if the sellers were taking advantage of the omission in the Agreement, particularly when at the time she raised such objection the entire money received in advance had been returned by the sellers to her. This is one aspect of the matter. 35. The other aspect is this. From the documents on record, it is clear that there was no readiness and willingness on the buyer’s part to pay the balance sale consideration and get the sale deed executed. The buyer, despite multiple reminders, did not come forward for execution of the sale deed. Vide letters dated 11th March, 2006, 23rd March, 2006, 06th April, 2006, the buyer was given a deadline of 13 (thirteen), 7 (seven) (counted from the date of receipt of ‘encumbrance certificate’) and 5 (five) days respectively; however, the buyer did not comply with any of these. It is to be noted that the above communications are subsequent to the reply letter dated 24th February, 2006 by the buyer wherein she admitted her knowledge of the property having been vacated by the last of the tenants. Hence, the conduct of the buyer in not doing the needful, especially even after the property became free of tenants, demonstrates her reluctance and diffidence to perform the contract. 36. Moving further, a perusal of the buyer’s cross-examination reveals her admission of not having enough fund in either of her bank accounts to pay the balance sale price. This, in our opinion, is sufficient proof of her financial incapacity to perform her part of the contract. The husband of the buyer could be a wealthy man having 1126 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports sufficient balance in his bank account but having perused the credit and debit entries, we have significant doubts in respect thereof which we need not dilate here in the absence of him being a party to the proceedings. Suffice is to observe, the transactions evident from the bank accounts of the buyer’s husband do little to impress us that the buyer had demonstrated her financial capacity to make payment of the balance sale price and close the deal. 37. Imperative and interesting it is to note, the buyer sought to return the demand draft to the sellers on the last day of its validity.