These cases have no application whatsoever to the facts of the present case. This [2024] 4 S.C.R. 233 Krishnadatt Awasthy v. State of Madhya Pradesh & Ors. is not such a case. In this case, it could not be said that only one admitted or indisputable factual position is possible. Hence issue of a writ will not be futile. 75. Given a chance before the Collector perhaps the appellants would have met each and every objection of the sole Complainant-Archana Mishra (R-4). Perhaps they may have not. One does not know. Respondent No.4 ought to have impleaded the candidates who were selected and appointed, including the appellants, before the Collector. Even if she failed, the Collector ought to have given an opportunity to implead, with a stern direction that failure to implead would result in a dismissal. This is all the more so in the teeth of Rule 9 of the A&R Rules. For the failure of Respondent No.4 and the Collector, the appellants cannot be made to pay. 76. Approaching the home stretch, one question still remains:- Whether at this distance of time should the matter be remitted back to the Collector for a fresh enquiry? The selection is of the year 1998. By virtue of interim s through out, the appellants have functioned in office and are discharging their duties for the past more than twenty five years. One of them has even superannuated. At this distance of time, it will not be in the interest of justice to remand the matter for a fresh enquiry. 77. In view of the above, the appeals are allowed. The of the Division Bench of the High Court passed in the writ appeals are set aside. The result would be that the appeal filed by Respondent No.4 Archana Mishra before the Collector, Chhatarpur, would stand dismissed. The appellants would be entitled to continue in service, deeming their appointments as valid and would be entitled to all service benefits. No as to costs. Headnotes prepared by: Nidhi Jain Result of the case: Matter to be placed before Hon’ble CJI for constitution of larger Bench.