Therefore, it was advised that confined field testing, as recommended under the present regulatory system, is the right option for a realistic evaluation of any GE plant to know its suitability for any agronomic trait of economic importance. (iv) Fourthly, whether specific conditions imposed by the regulatory agencies for open-field trials (or “Confined Field Tests”, as Dr. Paroda prefers) are adequate, the dissenting report expressed concerns about the existing system in India and recommended, among other things, the following: a. The RCGM, GEAC and ICAR must work hand in hand to conduct the confined field trials at the specified sites as well as improve the quality and timeliness of inspections by qualified monitoring teams. A roster of such monitors, with required expertise needs to be maintained and updated regularly by these agencies. b. Crop-specific Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) should be developed and made available online. Such SOPs should incorporate, in addition to the existing procedures, i) methods for reproductive isolation of the confined field trial site, ii) schedules for monitoring the field trial during and after the growing season, iii) required duration of post-harvest restrictions on the trial site, and iv) methods for on-site/ off-site disposal of regulated plant materials. c. A system for notification of confined field trial sites located in different agro-ecological zones should be developed by RCGM and GEAC in consultation with the ICAR. These sites could include both public and private sector institutions/facilities, meeting the specified 1992 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports conditions. However, no trials should be allowed on farmers’ fields, leased or otherwise. d. Integrate the existing system of testing and standard protocols under All India Coordinated Research Project (AICRP) with the three years of confined field testing in Biosafety Research Level (BRL)-I and BRL-II. The agronomic evaluation should be against the best national check, regional check, and the latest released variety or hybrid in the state concerned. For all the new events, the decision of RCGM and GEAC on biosafety and environmental concerns must be final at either of the testing stages (BRL-I or BRL-II), irrespective of good agronomic performance of the variety. e. Monitoring for biosafety compliance as well as agronomic performance of each confined field trial must be made mandatory, and should be carried out by GEAC through an inter-ministerial monitoring compliance committee including people drawn from a roster of experts. In addition, each confined field trial must be monitored by a site-specific monitoring committee. f. In cases where an already approved event is incorporated into a new genetic background, after being verified for its stability, such variety or hybrid shall be evaluated independently by the AICRP protocol for agronomic performance and the expression of the event concerned for a period of two years, as per the existing practice under the New Seed Policy. g. Varieties or hybrids evaluated by the above process shall then be approved for general cultivation by a Central GM-Crop Release Committee at par with the Variety Release [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1993 Gene Campaign & Anr.