Firstly, an appeal from an of the Special Court under the NIA Act, refusing or granting bail shall lie only to a Bench of two Judges of the High Court. 27.2. And, secondly as far as Prayer (b) of the petition for clarification is concerned, it is made clear that inasmuch as the applicant is being prosecuted for the offences under the MCOC Act, 1999, as well as the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967, such offences are triable only by the Special Court, and therefore application for bail in such matters will have to be made before the Special Court under the NIA Act, 2008, and shall not lie before the High Court either under Section 439 or under Section 482 of the Code. The application for bail filed by the applicant in the present case is not maintainable before the High Court. 27.3. Thus, where the NIA Act applies, the original application for bail shall lie only before the Special Court, and appeal against the s therein shall lie only to a Bench of two Judges of the High Court.” 280 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 13. The factual position which forms the background of the present appellant’s plea for bail is, however, different from that in which the aforesaid s were delivered. The appellant before us, at each stage, had applied for bail before the Court which, at that point of time, had regular jurisdiction to consider her application. It was because of supervening circumstances the NIA entered into the picture and then issued the second supplementary chargesheet. The Division Bench, being an appellate forum, has the jurisdiction to look into the facts which may arise subsequent to the of bail passed by the Court of regular jurisdiction. The by which the Single Judge, hearing the bail application under Section 439 of the 1973 Code, placed the matter before the Division Bench (in essence, giving the said application the form or character of an appeal under Section 21(2) of the 2008 Act), had not been assailed by any of the parties. We also do not find any error in such a direction having been issued by the Single Judge of the High Court exercising jurisdiction under Section 439 of the 1973 Code. It was the same investigation which was continued by the NIA, based on the same FIR. Only the investigating agency had changed. Just because the second supplementary chargesheet had been issued by the NIA after disposal of the bail application by the Sessions Court, it was not the only legal course available to the High Court to remand the matter to the Special Court for examining the second supplementary chargesheet at the first instance. As an Appellate Forum, in the facts of the given case, it was well within the jurisdiction of the High Court exercising its power under Section 21(2) of the 2008 Act, to examine the second supplementary chargesheet as well, while sitting in appeal over the of rejection of bail by the regular Sessions Court upon considering the first two chargesheets.