9. While hearing the appeals under Section 374(2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (for short, “CrPC”), the High Court is exercising its appellate jurisdiction. There shall be independent application of mind in deciding the criminal appeal against conviction. It is the duty of an appellate court to independently evaluate the evidence presented and determine whether such evidence is credible. Even if the evidence is deemed reliable, the High Court must further assess whether the prosecution has established its case beyond reasonable doubt. The High Court though being an appellate Court is akin to a Trial Court, must be convinced beyond all reasonable doubt that the prosecution’s case is substantially true and that the guilt of the accused has been conclusively proven while considering an appeal against a conviction. 10. The necessity of this exercise arises from the fact that a conviction curtails the personal liberty of the accused in the incessant future. Hence, the High Court must provide clear reasons for accepting the evidence on record. Mere concurrence with the findings of the Trial Court is insufficient unless supported by a well-reasoned indepenent justification. As the first appellate court, the High Court is expected to evaluate the evidence including the medical evidence, statement of the victim, statements of the witnesses and the defence’s version with due care. 11. While the need not be excessively lengthy, it must reflect a proper application of mind to crucial evidence. Albeit the High Court does not have the advantage to examine the witnesses directly, the High Court shall, as an appellate Court, re-assess the facts, evidence on record and findings to arrive at a just conclusion in deciding whether the Trial Court was justified in convicting the accused or not. We are also cognizant of the large pendency of cases bombarding our [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1271 Amar Sardar v. The State of West Bengal courts. However, the same cannot come in the way of the Court’s solemn duty, particularly, when a person’s liberty is at stake. 12. This Court in State of Uttar Pradesh vs. Ambarish, Criminal Appeal No 446 of 2021 held that while deciding a criminal appeal on merits, the High Court is required to apply its mind to the entirety of the case including the evidence on the record before arriving at its conclusion. In this regard, we may also refer to the s passed by this Court in Shakuntala Shukla vs. State of Uttar Pradesh (2021) 20 SCC 818 and State Bank of India vs. Ajay Kumar Sood (2023) 7 SCC 282. 13. No doubt the impugned has neatly sub-titled various aspects of the case, but we find that the independent consideration of the evidence on record is conspicuous by its absence inasmuch as ‘paragraphs 5 to 28’ record the oral evidence and also list the exhibits which have been produced in the said case; however, the said evidence has not been considered by the High Court so as to ascertain whether the Fast Track Court was justified in passing a of conviction and sentencing the appellant.