943 Ajay Madhusudan Patel & Ors. v. Jyotrindra S. Patel & Ors. and JRS Group, clauses 2.1.4 and 2.1.6 relate to Millenium and Deegee which are Respondent Nos. 7 and 8 companies respectively. It is an undisputed fact that Respondent Nos. 7 and 8 companies are themselves a part of the SRG Group. Therefore, prima facie without the joinder of the SRG Group, which includes Millenium and Deegee, there may not be a complete and effective resolution of the disputes arising out of the FAA between the AMP and JRS Groups. 73. Clause 2.1.4 read with Schedule 7 of the FAA prima facie indicates that the petitioners i.e., the AMP Group has to exit from the Respondent No.7 company i.e. Millenium where they hold Class A equity shares amounting to 36%. According to the procedure contemplated therein, during Phase 1 of the Millenium exit, the SRG Group (which already holds 40% shares in Millenium) is supposed to additionally purchase approx. 11% of the shares in Millenium held by the AMP Group. It is stated therein that the JRS Group would provide the necessary funding to SRG Group to purchase the aforementioned shares. In Phase 2, Millenium would buy back the balance shares of the AMP Group i.e., approx. 25% from the funds to be received from Respondent No. 8 company i.e. Deegee. 74. Clause 2.1.6 read with Schedule 8 prima facie indicates that the JRS Group and SRG Group would completely exit from the Respondent No. 8 Company i.e., Deegee. The proceeds received by the AMP Group from the sale of its shares in Millenium as per Phase 1 of the Millenium exit would be brought into Deegee by the AMP Group. AMP Group is also required to bring further funds into Deegee to pay off the entire loan provided by Millenium to Deegee along with interest at the rate of 14.5% compounded annually. Simultaneously with the repayment of loans to Millenium as aforesaid, Deegee is also required to pay off the entire loan provided by the JRS Group and SRG Group with interest at the rate of 14.5% compounded annually. Subsequently, the shares of Deegee held by the JRS Group and SRG Group would be transferred completely to the AMP Group. 75. In short, while the AMP Group is supposed to exit from Millenium and acquire shares in Deegee, the JRS and SRG Groups are supposed to exit from Deegee and, the SRG Group would acquire shares in Millenium. It is also provided that agreements are to be executed with or by the SRG Group to record and finalize the understanding 944 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports with respect to the exit of AMP Group from Millenium and the exit of JRS and SRG Groups from Deegee. Recognising the interdependent nature of the transactions contemplated with respect to Millenium and Deegee, clause 2.1.4(a) also states that the exit of Millenium and Deegee should be endeavoured to be undertaken simultaneously on the same day. 76. Further Clause 2.1.7 requires the AMP Group to irrevocably and unconditionally withdraw all litigations including CP/383/2017 filed in connection with Deegee by the AMP Group before the NCLT at Mumbai wherein Respondent No.9 of the SRG Group is one of the respondents.