Even if it is not of the essence of the contract the Court may infer that it is to be performed in a reasonable time if the conditions are: 1. from the express terms of the contract; 2. from the nature of the property; and 3. from the surrounding circumstances, for example: the object of making the contract.” 13 [1992] Supp. 3 SCR 798 : (1993) 1 SCC 519 1114 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 14. An instructive discussion is found in Saradamani Kandappan v. S. Rajalakshmi14 of how the principle of time not being the essence of the contract in transactions relating to sale of immovable properties took shape and how with changing times, the outlook of the courts in pleas claiming specific performance should be. We consider it appropriate to reproduce the same hereunder: “36. The principle that time is not of the essence of contracts relating to immovable properties took shape in an era when market values of immovable properties were stable and did not undergo any marked change even over a few years (followed mechanically, even when value ceased to be stable)…..This principle made sense during the first half of the twentieth century, when there was comparatively very little inflation, in India. The third quarter of the twentieth century saw a very slow but steady increase in prices. But a drastic change occurred from the beginning of the last quarter of the twentieth century. There has been a galloping inflation and prices of immovable properties have increased steeply, by leaps and bounds. Market values of properties are no longer stable or steady. We can take judicial notice of the comparative purchase power of a rupee in the year 1975 and now, as also the steep increase in the value of the immovable properties between then and now. It is no exaggeration to say that properties in cities, worth a lakh or so in or about 1975 to 1980, may cost a crore or more now. 37. The reality arising from this economic change cannot continue to be ignored in deciding cases relating to specific performance. The steep increase in prices is a circumstance which makes it inequitable to grant the relief of specific performance where the purchaser does not take steps to complete the sale within the agreed period, and the vendor has not been responsible for any delay or non- performance. A purchaser can no longer take shelter under the principle that time is not of essence in performance 14 [2011] 8 SCR 874 : (2011) 12 SCC 18 [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1115 R. Kandasamy (Since Dead) & Ors. v. T.R.K. Sarawathy & Anr. of contracts relating to immovable property, to cover his delays, laches, breaches and ‘non-readiness’.…………… *** 42. Therefore there is an urgent need to revisit the principle that time is not of the essence in contracts relating to immovable properties and also explain the current position of law with regard to contracts relating to immovable property made after 1975, in view of the changed circumstances arising from inflation and steep increase in prices.