Given that Constitutions are built to clothe societies with , it is only logical that they be treated as living organisms capable of growth and change. It involves an understanding of the Constitution as an evolving and organic instrument. For the living tree theorists, it matters little what the intentions were at the time of Constitution making. What matters the most is how the Constitution can be interpreted to contain rights in their broadest realm. The doctrine suggests that the past plays a critical but non-exclusive role in determining the contents of the Constitution. Although the rights and freedoms under a Constitution may be rooted in the past and historically determined, they cannot be considered to be frozen by particular historical anomalies. 4.2 As per Woodrow Wilson, former President of the United States of America, “a Constitution must of necessity be a vehicle of 190 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports life; that its substance is the thought and habit of the nation and as such it must grow and develop as the life of the nation changes.” 4.3 In India, the living tree doctrine has been largely inspired from Canadian jurisprudence. Its origin in the judicial record seems to be in a 1938 Federal Court where the then Governor- General of India referred a question to the Court relating to the constitutionality of the Central Provinces and Berar Sales of Motor Spirit and Lubricants Taxation Act, 1938. While expanding upon what canons of interpretation and construction the Court would use to answer the question, Sir Maurice Gwyer CJ stated that “a Constitution of government is a living and organic thing, which of all instruments has the greatest claim to be construed ut res magis valeat quampereat (in a manner in which it becomes operative rather than null).”The Court urged that in the case of federal constitutions, “a broad and liberal spirit should inspire those whose duty it is to interpret it” but they were not “free to stretch or pervert the language of the enactment to further any interest.” 4.4 Subsequently, in the landmark of State of West Bengal vs. Anwar Ali Sarkar,AIR 1952 SC 75 (“Anwar Ali Sarkar”), this Court struck down the West Bengal Special Courts Act, 1950, holding that it violated Article 14 of the Constitution. Vivian Bose J. in a separate stated that provisions of the Constitution must not be interpreted “without regard to the background out of which they arose.”Justice Bose articulated that the Constitution must be interpreted progressively to “give life to a great nation and its being,”and not in a manner as would relaunch “discarded tools.” While being conscious that people who forget their history are condemned to repeat it, he emphasised that a Constitution must be interpreted having regard not only to the historical circumstances under which it emerged, but also in a manner as would “mould the future as well as guide the present.” It may be apposite to quote a paragraph from Justice Bose’s erudite , which brings out many elements embodied in the living tree doctrine: [2024] 11 S.C.R.