In Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences, Rohtak about 2000 cases were reported which were all suicidal. 19. We may briefly sum up the opinion of the learned authors from their published paper. Phosphine gas (active ingredient of ALP) causes sudden cardiovascular collapse; most patients die of shock, cardiac arrhythmia, acidosis and adult respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). Aluminium phosphide is available in the form of chalky-white tablets. When these tablets are taken out of the sealed container, they come in contact with atmospheric moisture and the chemical reaction takes place liberating Phosphine gas (PH3) which is the active ingredient of ALP. This gas is highly toxic and effectively kills all insects and thus preserves the stored grains. When these tablets are swallowed, the chemical reaction is accelerated by the presence of hydrochloric acid in the stomach and within minutes phosphine gas dissipates and spreads into the whole body. The gas is highly toxic and damages almost every organ but maximal damage is caused to heart and lungs. Sudden cardiovascular collapse is the hallmark of acute poisoning. Patients [2024] 1 S.C.R. 255 DARSHAN SINGH v. STATE OF PUNJAB come with fast, thready or impalpable arterial pulses, unrecordable or low blood pressure and icy-cold skin. Somehow these patients remain conscious till the end and continue to pass urine despite unrecordable blood pressure. Vomiting is a prominent feature associated with epigastric burning sensation. The patients will be smelling foul (garlic-like) from their breath and vomitus. Many of them will die within a few hours. Those who survive for some time will show elevated jugular venous pressure, may develop tender hepatomegaly and still later adult respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), renal shutdown and in a very few cases, toxic hepatic jaundice. The active ingredient of ALP is phosphine gas which causes extensive tissue damage. A spot clinical diagnosis is possible in majority of cases of ALP poisoning. However, ALP on account of its very pungent smell (which can drive out all inmates from the house if left open) cannot be taken accidentally.” 6.3 It was also argued that the courts below have failed to give sufficient weight to the evidence led on behalf of the defence, in particular, the testimony of DW3 and DW4. 6.4 Lastly, it was argued that Rani Kaur (A2) having been extended benefit of doubt, it was rather anomalous to exclude such benefit to A1- the appellant, when the case of the prosecution was that both of them were present at the scene of crime. Arguments of Mr. Prateek Chaddha, learned counsel on behalf of State of Punjab: 7. Melo Kaur was an illiterate person who cannot be expected to be aware of the intricacies of law and cross examination and therefore, it was rather natural for minor inconsistencies to creep into the testimony of such a witness. The Trial Court has rightly appreciated her testimony by excluding the uncorroborated parts from the corroborated parts of her testimony. In that sense, the Trial Court has separated the chaff from the grain, as is expected to be done when it has to appreciate the evidence of a partly 256 [2024] 1 S.C.R.