In Kashi Nath (Dead) through LRs. v. Jaganath,7 this Court held that where the evidence is not in line with the pleadings and is at variance with it, the said evidence could not be looked into or relied on. In Damodhar Narayan Sawale (D) through LRs. v. Tejrao Bajirao Mhaske,8 this Court held:- “……the well neigh settled position of law is that one could be permitted to let in evidence only in tune with his pleadings. We shall not also be oblivious of the basic rule of law of pleadings, founded on the principle of secundum allegata et probate, that a party is not allowed to succeed where he has not set up the case which he wants to substantiate.” 20. Now, for undertaking a consideration as mentioned above, we will firstly refer to the pleadings of the defendants in their jointly filed written statement. In paragraph 1-a, thereof it was averred thus: - “1-a… True and correct position is that plaintiff’s father late Kailash Chand; defendants’ father late Ramesh Chandra; late Ram Prasad Gupta; and Beni Ram Gupta, all sons of Mangal Sen Gupta, were members of Hindu Undivided Family and all of them were doing their business of manufacturing glass bangles in Firozabad (Uttar Pradesh) in the name and style of Ganesh Glass Bangles. In the year 1952, the father of the defendants and father of plaintiff opened a shop in Raipur City in the name of Lakshmi Bangle Stores. Thereafter Defendants’ Father Late Ramesh Chandra and Plaintiff’s father purchased suit lands on 15.03.1963 in the name of their nephew late Sitaram for a total price of Rs. 8,950/. Because late Sitaram was a member of the Joint Family…” 7 [2003] Supp. 5 SCR 202 : (2003) 8 SCC 740 8 [2023] 6 SCR 175 : 2023 SCC OnLine SC 566 [2024] 10 S.C.R. 723 Neelam Gupta & Ors. v. Rajendra Kumar Gupta & Anr. “… In the year 1968, late Ram Prasad who was the brother of Defendant’s father requested Defendants’ father to transfer the suit lands and other lands which are in the name of his (Ram Prasad’s) son Sitaram in favour of any other member. Because Sitaram’s condition is not sound and he can ruin and fritter away suit lands under influence from anyone. Thereafter Defendants’ father transferred suit lands and other lands which were in the name of Sita Ram, in favour of the plaintiff on 4.6.1968 at an estimated price, although those lands were purchased for Rs. 16,000/- and suitable amendments were made in the records also. But suit lands were always maintained and occupied by the defendants herein and their father. In the year 1973, brothers of Defendants’ father opened a bangle shop in Dhamtari and plaintiff and his brother Surinder used to sit in this shop. Later on, an oral partition was arrived at in between the Defendants’ father and Plaintiff’s family according to which the shop in Dhamtari and agricultural lands of khasra no. 924 measuring 5.00 acres situated in Village Mowa were given to plaintiff and his family.