This expression will, therefore, have to be held to mean other laws having relation to the securities market only, as the Recovery of Debts Due to Banks and Financial Institutions Act, 1993 is the only other special law, apart from the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002, dealing with recovery of debts due to banks and financial institutions. On this interpretation also, the Sick Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Act, 1985 will not be included for the obvious reason that its primary objective is to rehabilitate sick industrial companies and not to deal with the securities market.” (Emphasis supplied) 60. The aforesaid view came to be reaffirmed by this Court in another decision in Celir LLP. v. Bafna Motors (Mumbai) Pvt. Ltd. & Ors. reported in 2023 SCC OnLine SC 1209, wherein it was held that only those laws which have been either enumerated in Section 37 of the SARFAESI Act or which occupy and deal with the same field as the SARFAESI Act will be applicable in addition to the SARFAESI Act. The relevant observations are being reproduced below: - “72. Thus, it appears from a combined reading of the decisions rendered by this Court in Madras Petrochem (supra) and M.D. Frozen Foods Exports (supra) that this Court has consistently construed that only those laws which have either been enumerated in Section 37 SARFAESI Act or similar to it would be applicable in addition to the SARFAESI Act i.e., laws which deal with securities or occupy the same field as the SARFAESI Act. Thus, even on this aspect, we are of the view that the Act, 1882 would not be applicable in addition to the SARFAESI Act. Suffice to say, that in view of the above discussion, the statutory right of redemption under the Act, 1882 will not be applicable to the SARFAESI Act at least in view of the amended Section 13(8) and any right of redemption of a borrower must be found within the SARFAESI Act in terms of the amended Section 13(8).” (Emphasis supplied) 60 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 61. The legislature through Rule 9(5) of the SARFAESI Rules, has made a conscious departure from the general law by statutorily providing for the forfeiture of earnest-money deposit of the successful auction purchaser for its failure in depositing the balance consideration within the statutory period. No doubt, the forfeiture is a result of a breach of obligation, but the consequence of forfeiture in such case is taking place not because of the breach but because of operation of the statutory provision providing for forfeiture that is attracted as a result of the breach. 62. If the consequence of forfeiture was purely a matter of breach of contract, then there would have been no occasion for the legislature to specifically provide for forfeiture through the statutory provisions, and it would have simpliciter relegated the consequences of such breach to already existing general law under Section(s) 73 and 74 of the 1872 Act.