There is undoubtedly a miss match! As often happens the claim of the respondent is based on what is stated to be a large number of properties of the family of the appellant, though nothing is placed on record of anything in his name.” [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1397 Rinku Baheti v. Sandesh Sharda 14.2.2 The law with respect to deciding the amount of permanent alimony was summarised by a bench of this Court recently in Kiran Jyot Maini vs. Anish Pramod Patel, (2024) 7 SCR 942, wherein this Court speaking through Vikram Nath, J. has touched upon the question of one-time settlement and the factors that should be taken into consideration while determining fair amount of permanent alimony. It was also observed as under: “The status of the parties is a significant factor, encompassing their social standing, lifestyle, and financial background. The reasonable needs of the wife and dependent children must be assessed, including costs for food, clothing, shelter, education, and medical expenses. The applicant’s educational and professional qualifications, as well as their employment history, play a crucial role in evaluating their potential for self-sufficiency. If the applicant has any independent source of income or owns property, this will also be taken into account to determine if it is sufficient to maintain the same standard of living experienced during the marriage. Additionally, the court considers whether the applicant had to sacrifice employment opportunities for family responsibilities, such as child-rearing or caring for elderly family members, which may have impacted their career prospects.” 14.2.3 In Vinny Paramvir Parmar vs. Paramvir Parmar, (2011) 9 SCR 371, this Court held that there cannot be a fixed formula or a straitjacket rubric for fixing the amount of permanent alimony and only broad principles can be laid down. The question of maintenance is subjective to each case and depends on various factors and circumstances as presented in individual cases. This Court in the above stated that the courts shall consider the following broad factors while determining permanent alimony – income and properties of both the parties respectively, conduct of the parties, status, 1398 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports social and financial, of the parties, their respective personal needs, capacity and duty to maintain others dependant on them, husband’s own expenses, wife’s comfort considering her status and the mode of life she was used to during the subsistence of the marriage, among other supplementary factors. 14.2.4 This was further reiterated by this Court in Vishwanath Agrawal vs. Sarla Vishwanath Agrawal, (2012) 7 SCR 607, while observing that permanent alimony is to be granted after considering largely the social status, conduct of the parties, the parties’ lifestyle, and other such ancillary factors. 14.3 Earlier, a two-judge bench of this Court speaking through Indu Malhotra, J. in Rajnesh vs. Neha, (2021) 2 SCC 324 (“Rajnesh”), elaborated upon the broad criteria and the factors to be considered for determining the quantum of maintenance. This court emphasizes that there is no fixed formula for calculating maintenance amount; instead, it should be based on a balanced consideration of various factors.