Relying on Special Reference No. 1 of 1964 (supra) and State of Karnataka (supra) a Constitution bench of this Court in Raja Ram Pal (supra) held that the court has the authority and jurisdiction to examine if a privilege asserted by the House (or even a member by extension) in fact accrues under the Constitution. Further, in Amarinder Singh (supra) a Constitution bench of this Court held that the courts are empowered to scrutinise the exercise of privileges by the House.47 The interplay between fundamental rights of citizens and the privileges of the Houses of Parliament or Legislature is pending before a Constitution bench of this Court in N Ravi v. Speaker, Legislative Assembly Chennai.48 73. Clause (4) of Article 105 extends the freedoms in the above clauses to all persons who by virtue of the Constitution have a right to speak in Parliament. The four clauses in Articles 105 and 194 form a composite whole which lend colour to each other and together form the corpus of the powers, privileges and immunities of the Houses of Parliament or Legislature, as the case may be, and of members and committees. 74. We have explored the trajectory of parliamentary privileges, especially that of freedom of speech in the Indian legislatures. It has been a timeless insistence of the legislators that their freedom of speech to carry out their essential legislative functions be protected and sanctified. Whereas the drafters of our Constitution have expressly guaranteed the freedom of speech in Parliament and legislature, they left the other privileges uncodified. 46 [1978] 2 SCR 1 : (1977) 4 SCC 608, para 63 47 (2010) 6 SCC 113, para 54 48 WP (Crl) No. 206-210/2003 etc. 516 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 75. In a consistent line of precedent this Court has held that – firstly, Parliament or the state legislature is not the sole judge of what privileges it enjoys and secondly, Parliament or legislature may only claim privileges which are essential and necessary for the functioning of the House. We have explored the first of these limbs above. We shall now analyse the jurisprudence on the existence, extent and exercise of privileges by the House of Parliament, its members and committees. II. Parliamentary privilege as a collective right of the House 76. According to Erskine May, parliamentary privilege is the sum of certain rights enjoyed by each House collectively as a constituent part of the “High Court of Parliament” and by members of each House individually, without which they could not discharge their functions, and which exceed those possessed by other bodies or individuals.49 The term ‘High Court of Parliament’ dates back to the time when all powers of legislating and dispensing justice vested in the Monarch who in turn divested them to a body which would carry out the function of the legislature as the King sitting in the High Court of Parliament. To that extent, the term is redundant in the Indian context where the Constitution is supreme and the power of the Parliament over its domain flows from and is defined by the Constitution.