Digital Supreme Court Reports (1) the circumstances from which the conclusion of guilt is to be drawn should be fully established. It may be noted here that this Court indicated that the circumstances concerned “must or should” and not “may be” established. There is not only a grammatical but a legal distinction between “may be proved” and “must be or should be proved” as was held by this Court in Shivaji Sahabrao Bobade v. State of Maharashtra [(1973) 2 SCC 793] where the observations were made: “Certainly, it is a primary principle that the accused must be and not merely may be guilty before a court can convict and the mental distance between ‘may be’ and ‘must be’ is long and divides vague conjectures from sure conclusions.” (2) the facts so established should be consistent only with the hypothesis of the guilt of the accused, that is to say, they should not be explainable on any other hypothesis except that the accused is guilty, (3) the circumstances should be of a conclusive nature and tendency, (4) they should exclude every possible hypothesis except the one to be proved, and (5) there must be a chain of evidence so complete as not to leave any reasonable ground for the conclusion consistent with the innocence of the accused and must show that in all human probability the act must have been done by the accused.” 12. So far as the facts of the present case are concerned, it is not disputed that deceased Devaki and the Appellant No.1 got married in April, 2002 and the Appellant No.2 happened to be the mother-in- law of the deceased. It is also not disputed that the tragic incident occurred on 14.09.2003 i.e. within 17 months of the marriage, when deceased Devaki succumbed to the burn injuries at her matrimonial home i.e. at the home of the appellants. 13. The Prosecution had examined as many as 8 witnesses to prove the charges levelled against the appellants, out of whom PW-1 Vinod Singh happened to be the nephew of the deceased who had [2024] 11 S.C.R. 913 Vijaya Singh & Anr. v. State of Uttarakhand inter alia stated that he used to go to leave his aunt Devaki at her matrimonial home and used to feel that the behaviour of appellant no. 2 was not good with her. He also stated that in the month of August, 2002 when he had visited the matrimonial home of his aunt to bring her back home, her mother-in-law (appellant no.2) had indulged into a quarrel with him saying that if he wanted to take his aunt with him, then he should keep her permanently with him. He also deposed that the appellant no. 2 had threatened him by saying that he had not seen her anger till that point of time. On that day, PW-1 came back home with his aunt/deceased. He also stated that in the year 2003, when his aunt i.e. the deceased Devaki had visited her parental home, she was found to have an injury on her eye and on his asking about the injury, she had confidentially told him that the said injury was caused by her husband - Vijaya Singh (appellant no.1), however he had not disclosed the same to anyone so that the matter may not aggravate further.