In our considered opinion, this act at the hands of the appellant will be covered under the fourth exception given under Section 300 of the IPC, i.e., “Culpable homicide is not murder if it is committed without premeditation in a sudden fight in [2024] 2 S.C.R. 999 Dattatraya v. The State of Maharashtra the heat of passion upon a sudden quarrel and without the offender’s having taken undue advantage or acted in a cruel or unusual manner”. 21. The act of the appellant is not premeditated, but is a result of sudden fight and quarrel in the heat of passion. Therefore, we convert the findings of Section 302 to that of 304 Part-II, as we are of the opinion that though the appellant had knowledge that such an act can result in the death of the deceased, but there was no intention to kill the deceased. Therefore, this is an offence which would come under Part-II not under Part-I of Section 304 of the IPC. On almost similar facts, (as are present in the case at hand), this Court had converted the findings of Section 302 to that of Section 304 Part II IPC. The case of which reference is being made here is Kalu Ram v. State of Rajasthan (2000) 10 SCC 324. The appellant who had been convicted under Section 302 IPC for causing death of his wife by pouring kerosene on her and then setting her on fire was convicted by the Trial Court under Section 302, which was upheld by the High Court. The facts of the case are as follows :- In the above case, the appellant who in an inebriated state was pressurizing his wife to part with some ornaments so that he could buy some more liquor. On her refusal he poured kerosene on her and set her on fire by lighting a matchstick. But then he also tried to pour water on her to save her. This Court was thus of the opinion that : “7….Very probably he would not have anticipated that the act done by him would have escalated to such a proportion that she might die. If he had ever intended her to die he would not have alerted his senses to bring water in an effort to rescue her. We are inclined to think that all that the accused thought of was to inflict burns to her and to frighten her but unfortunately the situation slipped out of his control and it went to the fatal extent. He would not have intended to inflict the injuries which she sustained on account of his act. Therefore we are persuaded to bring down the offence from first degree murder to culpable homicide not amounting to murder. 8. We therefore alter the conviction from Section 302 IPC to Section 304 Part II IPC...” 1000 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports The facts of the present case, as we have already discussed above, by and large reflect the same situation, nature of crime as well as the act of the accused and the consequences of his action.