37. Learned Single Judge of the High Court of Delhi held at para No. 31 of the impugned that the respondent had taken a categoric stand that the grounds of arrest were informed to the appellant orally and the same were also conveyed in writing as per the details set out in the memo of arrest. However, learned ASG fairly did not advance any such argument based on the arrest memo. 38. The interpretation given by the learned Single Judge that the grounds of arrest were conveyed to the accused in writing vide the arrest memo is unacceptable on the face of the record because the arrest memo does not indicate the grounds of arrest being incorporated in the said document. Column No. 9 of the arrest memo (Annexure P-7) which is being reproduced hereinbelow simply sets out the ‘reasons for arrest’ which are formal in nature and can be generally attributed to any person arrested on accusation of an offence whereas the ‘grounds of arrest’ would be personal in nature and specific to the person arrested. “9. Reason for arrest a. Prevent accused person from committing any further offence. 694 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports b. For proper investigation of the offence. c. To prevent the accused person from causing the evidence of the offence to disappear or tempering with such evidence in any manner. d. To prevent such person from making any inducement threat or promise to any person acquainted the facts of the case so as to dissuade him from disclosing such facts to the Court or to the Police officer. e. As unless such person is arrested, his presence in the Court whenever required cannot be ensured.” 39. The remand dated 4th October, 2023(reproduced supra) records that the copy of the remand application had been sent to the learned Advocate engaged by the accused appellant through shriApp. A bare perusal of the remand is enough to satisfy us that these two lines were subsequently inserted in the because the script in which these two lines were written is much finer as compared to the remaining part of the and moreover, these two lines give a clear indication of subsequent insertion. It is quite possible that the learned Remand Judge may have heard the learned counsel for the appellant after signing the remand and thus, these lines were inserted later without intending any harm or malintention but the fact remains that the of remand had already been passed at 6:00 a.m. and hence, the subsequent opportunity of hearing, if any, provided to the counsel was nothing but an exercise in futility. 40. Learned ASG had argued that the copy of the remand application forwarded over WhatsApp to the learned counsel for the accused appellant gives a complete picture about the grounds of arrest. We feel that any comment on the contents of the remand application and whether the same actually conveyed intelligible grounds of arrest to the accused or whether the same are so vague that it would be impossible to understand, may prejudice the trial of the case.