It is possible to take a view that the EC can be exempted for these situations on account of assessment already made or for extraction of earth for linear project but such blanket exemption must be balanced by sustainable development concept. The exemption should strike balance and instead of being blanket exemption, it needs to be hedged by appropriate safeguards such as the process of excavation and quantum. Similarly, in respect of item 7, safeguards are required to be incorporated in terms of disposal of dredged material. These aspects are not shown to have been considered and the reply does not provide any explanation thereon. Learned counsel for the MoEFCC is also unable to provide any justification why these aspects be not addressed and incorporated in the 1 [2012] 4 SCR 819 : (2012) 4 SCC 629 1256 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports notification for ensuring sustainable development concept which is required to be enforced by this Tribunal under section 20 read with section 15 of the NGT Act, 2010.” (emphasis added) Accordingly, the Original Application was disposed of by directing the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (for short, ‘MoEF&CC’) to revisit the impugned notification within three months. An application for review was filed, which was dismissed by the second impugned dated 24th December 2020. 8. Notice was ed to be issued on 13th December 2021 on the appeals. On 10th August 2023, submissions were heard, and the was reserved. After the was reserved, the respondent-Union of India filed an affidavit of Dr Sujit Kumar Bajpayee, Joint Secretary, MoEF&CC, dated 12th September 2023. Along with the affidavit, two documents were also filed on record. The first document was the Office Memorandum dated 21st August 2023 issued by the MoEF&CC, purportedly laying down the enforcement mechanism for items 6 and 7 in the impugned notification. The second document brought on record was the amended impugned notification. In view of the issuance of the amended impugned notification, even after the verdict was reserved, the parties were permitted to make further submissions on the legality and validity of the amended impugned notification. SUBMISSIONS 9. The learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant submitted that the object of the EP Act is to provide for the protection and improvement of the environment. She invited our attention to Section 3 of the EP Act, which confers a power on the Central Government to take such measures as it deems necessary or expedient for protecting and improving the quality of the environment and preventing and abating environmental pollution. She pointed out that the first EC notification was issued in the exercise of powers conferred under sub- section (1) and clause (v) of sub-section (2) of Section 3 of the EP Act. Clause (v) empowers the Central Government to take measures for restrictions of the areas, in which any industries, operations or processes or class of industries, operations or processes shall not be carried out or shall be carried out subject to certain safeguards.