J. sCi. res. puB. 2, (2012). 63 Id., at 5. 64 Id. 65 Id. 1174 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 84. In other words, the submission of the petitioners is that while the proportion of Bengali speaking population has risen over the past few decades, the proportion of Assamese speakers has declined in all the districts of Assam. Such a change in the demography of Assam has led to many adverse consequences and may continue to cause damage to the interests of the State. The influx of immigrants into the State has accelerated population growth, altered demographic attributes, increased b fluidities and has created economic and political pressure on the country.66 85. In response to the aforesaid concerns raised by the petitioners, the learned Solicitor General fairly accepted that the negative consequences of the unabated influx on the people of Assam, as pointed out by the petitioners, cannot be denied. He further submitted that the problem is a serious and a continuing one. However, the aforesaid ongoing issues cannot form the basis for declaring Section 6A of the Citizenship Act as unconstitutional as the said provision is confined to a particular period of time. IV. ISSUE FOR DETERMINATION 86. During the course of hearing, it was submitted by Mr. Shyam Divan, the learned Senior Counsel appearing for the petitioners, that there is no temporal limit to the operation of Section 6A(3) of the Citizenship Act which means that the provision continues to remain applicable till this date. He submitted that an immigrant of the 1966-71 stream can make an application even today for the purpose of seeking benefit under the said provision. He further argued that in the absence of any time-limit for working out the provision, it will remain on the statute book indefinitely and will continue to act as an incentive attracting immigrants to Assam. It was argued by him that in the absence of any prescribed time period for seeking the benefit of the provision, the same has also proved to be a fertile ground for local industries with regard to counterfeiting of documents, etc. 87. Mr. Divan further submitted that the power of the Central Government 66 Nandita Saikia, William Joe, Apala Saha & Utpal Chutia, Cross B Migration in Assam during 1951- 2011: Process, Magnitude, and Socio-Economic Consequences, Report submitted to ICSSR 38, (2016). [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1175 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 under Section 2 of the IEAA, 195067 to direct a person to remove himself is coupled with a duty to conduct expeditious detection and deportation of the immigrants. However, in the absence of any time-limit for working out Section 6A(3) of the Citizenship Act, it is difficult to balance the duty cast by Section 2 of the IEAA, 1950. He also submitted that for taking the benefit of registration under Section 6A(3), detection as a foreigner is a condition precedent. However, there is no method by which an immigrant can make a self-declaration, thereby shifting the onus of detection solely on the state and making it an endless exercise.