A question has also been raised by the appellant as to whether the Special Judge could have passed the remand in the event 582 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the remand was asked for only in respect of alleged commission of the IPC offences. We are apprised in course of hearing that the appellant has been enlarged on bail. Hence, this question need not be addressed by me in this . I, accordingly, dispose of this appeal with the following directions:- (i) If an enquiry, inquiry or investigation is intended in respect of a public servant on the allegation of commission of offence under the 1988 Act after Section 17A thereof becomes operational, which is relatable to any recommendation made or decision taken, at least prima facie, in discharge of his official duty, previous approval of the authority postulated in sub-section (a) or (b) or (c) of Section 17A of the 1988 Act shall have to be obtained. In absence of such previous approval, the action initiated under the 1988 Act shall be held illegal. (ii) The appellant cannot be proceeded against for offences under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 as no previous approval of the appropriate authority has been obtained. This opinion of this Court, however, shall not foreclose the option of the concerned authority in seeking approval in terms of the aforesaid provision. In this case, liberty is preserved for the State to apply for such approval as contained in the said provision. (iii) I decline to interfere with the remand dated 10.09.2023 as I am of the view that the Special Judge had the jurisdiction to pass such even if the offences under the 1988 Act could not be invoked at that stage. Lack of approval in terms of Section 17A would not have rendered the entire of remand non-est. (iv) The appellant, however, could be proceeded against before the Special Judge for allegations of commission of offences under the Indian Penal Code, 1860 for which also he has been implicated. 35. The appeal stands partly allowed, in the above terms. 36. All connected applications stand disposed of. [2024] 1 S.C.R. 583 Nara Chandrababu Naidu v. The State of Andhra Pradesh & Anr. Bela M. Trivedi, J. 1. Leave granted. 2. The entire controversy in the instant Appeal centres around the interpretation of Section 17A of the Prevention of Corruption Act,1988 (hereinafter referred to as the “PC Act”), and its applicability to the facts of the present case. Having had the benefit of going through the draft opinion of my esteemed Brother Justice Aniruddha Bose, I deem it appropriate to pen down my views on the issues involved in the Appeal. FACTUAL MATRIX: 3. Bereft of unnecessary details, the bare minimum facts required to decide the present Appeal are that the appellant, who is sought to be added as the accused No. 37 vide the “Accused Adding Memo” dated 08.09.2023, in the FIR No. 29/2021 registered at the P.S. CID P.S., AP, Amarvathi, Mangalalagiri, on 09.12.2021, was the Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh between 2014-2019.