30. Reliance placed on the of this Court in Bir Singh by the learned counsel for the respondent is also of no assistance since the said case concerned granting of benefits to Scheduled castes and Scheduled Tribes in the matter of employment and education in a particular State and Union Territory and that a migrant to that particular State or Union Territory cannot place reliance on his or her status in the State of origin for the purpose of claiming similar benefit in a State to which he or she has migrated. Reliance was placed on paragraph 68 of the said wherein this Court noted that it had refrained from addressing the issue in question as far as other Union Territories apart from the National Capital Territory of Delhi are concerned, would not in any way further the case of the respondent when the significant fact is that there has been no notification issued by the President of India vis-à-vis Scheduled Tribe in the Union Territory of Chandigarh is concerned. 31. In the instant case, merely because the appellant herein had issued a Notification calling for applications from both Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes did not confer any benefit by that Notification on the respondent herein when there is no Presidential at all under Article 342 of the Constitution of India issued with regard to Scheduled Tribes insofar as Union Territory of Chandigarh is concerned. The 390 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports said basic foundational fact goes against the respondent herein and the invitation given by the appellant/Housing Board to Scheduled Tribes was in fact contrary to the said basic tenets as well as the prevalent law and by that reason, the respondent herein cannot also seek any estoppel as against the appellant herein. 32. The High Court lost sight of the aforesaid facts and instead placed reliance on Exhibit P-8 letter dated 21.09.1983 and Exhibit D-3 letter dated 21.05.1985 to hold that there was reservation made for Scheduled Tribe applicants also for allotment of dwelling units of flats. In fact, in the letter dated 21.09.1983 (Exhibit P-8) it has been expressly noted that there are no Scheduled Tribes notified for Union Territory of Chandigarh but there are general instructions on reservation for Scheduled Tribes enunciated in Appendix-3 Note 2 on the Brochure on Reservation of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. The said Brochure cannot override Article 342 of the Constitution of India which empowers the President of India to notify the Scheduled Tribes either for a State or for an Union Territory. 33. In the circumstances, we find that the impugned of the High Court affirming the of the First Appellate Court, which in turn affirms the of the Trial Court are all liable to be set aside and are hence set aside. The Appeal is allowed in the aforesaid terms. No costs. Headnotes prepared by: Ankit Gyan Result of the case: Appeal allowed.