11. Consequently and in the light of the above, place these matters before the Hon’ble the Chief Justice of India on the administrative side for appropriate s.” 103. Considering the varying positions taken by various parties before this Hon’ble Court, we have divided the sides in two categories – the ones defending the of the High Court and the ones aggrieved by the of the Hon’ble Court. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1951 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. D.4. The parameters on which reference can be made to a larger bench 104. The parties defending the of the High Court were at pains to assert that it would not be permissible for the other side to re- agitate the factual findings and facts based legal controversies already decided by a five-Judge bench in Azeez Basha [supra]. The parties defending the of the High Court assert that the lis between the parties, as far as the minority status of the AMU is concerned, stands settled by the of Azeez Basha [supra] and cannot be re-opened. As per the said set of submissions, this Court is merely supposed to decide the question of law - Question 3(a), which was formulated for an answer in T.M.A. Pai [supra] without deciding status of the AMU. At the same time, the said parties urged the Hon’ble Court to decide upon the validity of the amendments made to the AMU Act in 1981 which were under challenge before the High Court. The said parties further highlighted the manner in which the matter was referred by the bench of two judges in Anjuman [supra] directly to seven judges was incorrect as the said bench was bound by a of five judges in Azeez Basha [supra]. 105. On the other hand, the parties challenging the of the High Court, pressed that correctness of the view expressed in the of this Court in Azeez Basha [supra] has been specifically referred to a larger bench of seven judges and therefore, the said issue is moot before this bench. The said parties requested this Court to lay down the law Question 3(a), which was formulated for an answer in T.M.A. Pai [supra] and decide thereupon whether the approach adopted in the of Azeez Basha [supra] was correct or not. At the same time, the said parties urged the Hon’ble Court not to decide upon the validity of the amendments made to the AMU Act in 1981 which were under challenge before the High Court and other decisions of the AMU authorities made in 2005 and leave the same to be decided by a regular bench. 106. At first, it is important to clarify the issue raised by the parties with regard to the reference in Writ Petition (Civil) Nos. 54-57 of 1981 in Anjuman-e-Rahmania & Ors. v. Distt. Inspector of School & Ors. The said bench of two Hon’ble Judges [without comprising of the Hon’ble Chief Justice of India] referred the judgement of five Hon’ble Judges in Azeez Basha [supra], directly to a bench of 1952 [2024] 11 S.C.R.