Neither the authorities of the other Union Territories have laid before the Court any relevant material in this regard. We, therefore, refrain from addressing the issue in question as far as other Union Territories are concerned and have confined our discussions and the consequential views only to the National Capital Territory of Delhi.” 22. In view of the aforesaid observations, we do not think that the respondent can draw any parity from what the position is, insofar as NCT of Delhi is concerned with regard to availing of benefits by Scheduled Tribes, even though, there is no Presidential with regard to Scheduled Tribes issued insofar as NCT of Delhi is concerned. Further, the observations made above are in the context of services. In the circumstances, we find that the respondent cannot rely upon the of this Court in Bir Singh. 23. This court, in Abhinav Dipakbhai Patel sustained the High Court’s direction to appoint a person who had migrated to the Union Territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and was a member of the Scheduled Tribe ‘Dhodia’ community as an Assistant Motor Vehicle Inspector. This Court noted that the Presidential notification issued for the Union Territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli extended the benefit of reservation to the Scheduled Tribes mentioned therein. Therefore, the reservation for Scheduled Tribes in the Union Territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli was held to be available to migrant Scheduled Tribes. The significant fact is that there was a Presidential notification [2024] 2 S.C.R. 387 Chandigarh Housing Board v. Tarsem Lal for Scheduled Tribes insofar as the aforesaid Union Territory was concerned. 24. In view of the aforesaid observations, we do not think that the respondent can rely upon Abhinav Dipakbhai Patel. This is for the simple reason that there is no Presidential notification for Scheduled Tribes in Chandigarh unlike in the case of Dadra & Nagar Haveli. 25. In view of the aforesaid, we find that the appellant had erroneously issued the advertisement inviting applications for allotment of houses from both Scheduled Castes as well as Scheduled Tribes persons because no such reservation for Scheduled Tribes could have been made without strict compliance with Article 342. The effect of the finding that the advertisement was issued without necessary jurisdiction and authority would lead to the setting aside of the impugned and decrees on that ground alone. 26. The upshot of the above discussion is that: i. The Presidential notification of a tribe or tribal community as a Scheduled Tribe by the President of India under Article 342 is a sine qua non for extending any benefits to the said community in any State or U.T. ii. This implies that a person belonging to a group that is recognized as a Scheduled Tribe in a State would be recognized a Scheduled Tribe only within the said State and not in a U.T. where he migrates if no such Presidential notification exists in the said U.T. 27. As far as the Annexure R-9, produced by the respondent herein is concerned, it is noted firstly, that the said document is dated 25.11.1985 and the same was issued prior to the of this Court in Marri Chandra Shekhar Rao which is contrary to the said and wherein the position of law has been clearly enunciated.