Only those provisions of the CrPC that are inconsistent with the specific provisions of the PMLA will not apply. Reliance was placed upon the decision of this Court in the case of Ashok Munilal Jain & Anr. v. Assistant Director, Directorate of Enforcement1. As there is no inconsistency between Section 88 of the CrPC and the provisions of the PMLA if, after service of summons, the accused offers to furnish bonds for appearance in terms of Section 88 of the CrPC, the Special Court should normally accept the bonds. After furnishing the bonds, if the accused fails to appear before the Special Court, recourse can always be taken by the Special Court to Section 89 by issuing a warrant for procuring the presence of the accused before the Special Court; (d) Once cognizance is taken based on a complaint, the Special Court cannot exercise the power of remand under Section 167 (2) of the CrPC. After cognizance is taken, the power can be exercised at the highest under Section 309 (2) of the CrPC; (e) In view of this Court’s decision in Satender Kumar Antil v. Central Bureau of Investigation & Anr.2, as clarified 1 (2018) 16 SCC 158 2 (2021) 10 SCC 773 872 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports in the subsequent decision in Satender Kumar Antil v. Central Bureau of Investigation and Anr.3, when during the investigation, the prosecution does not seek the custody of the accused, after the Court takes cognizance, there is no need to arrest the accused; (f) When the accused is not arrested during the investigation, after he appears before the Special Court pursuant to a summons, it is not necessary for him to apply for bail. The Special Court can always take recourse to Section 88 of the CrPC. In such a situation, if the ED is seeking remand by taking recourse under Section 309(2) of the CrPC, it will be incumbent upon the Special Court to give an opportunity of being heard to the accused and pass an recording reasons in brief; (g) As held in the second case of Satender Kumar Antil 3, Section 170 of the CrPC is merely a procedural compliance. It is submitted that in case of an offence punishable under the PMLA, a complaint under Section 44 (1)(b) partakes the character of a report/chargesheet under Section 173 of the CrPC. Once cognizance is taken based on the complaint, the authorities cannot invoke Section 19 of the PMLA and arrest an accused who has not been arrested till the date of the Special Court taking cognizance. If they require custody of the accused for further investigation to enable them to file a supplementary complaint, the officers of the ED will have to apply to the Special Court for a grant of custody; and (h) When an accused is not arrested until the filing of the complaint and when an accused appears pursuant to summons before the Special Court, Section 437 of the CrPC will not apply, and it is not necessary for the accused to seek bail.