8464 of 2009 of the High Court of Judicature for Rajasthan at Jaipur Appearances for Parties Ms. Sobha Gupta, Sr. Adv., Rishi Matoliya, Nikhil Kumar Singh, Raghuveer Pujari, Ms. Sumati Sharma, Advs. for the Appellant. Sandeep P. Agarwal, Sr. Adv., Varun Phogat, Viresh B. Saharya, Himanshu Dagar, Nitin Sejwal, Saujanya, Ms. Tanya Chanda, Akshat Agarwal, Advs. for the Respondent. 282 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports / of the Supreme Court 1. The appellant-landlady is aggrieved by the dated 30th July, 2015 passed by the Division Bench1 as also the dated 09th January, 2012 passed by the learned Single Judge in a writ petition2 filed before the High Court of Judicature for Rajasthan at Jaipur Bench, preferred by her under Article 227 of the Constitution of India. 2. The facts of the case reveal that the appellant-owner of a commercial premises at Vashistha Marg, Raja Park, Jaipur had leased out a part of the said premises3 to the respondent-Bank for a period of nine years in terms of the lease agreement dated 13th October, 2000, executed between the parties. The relevant clauses of the said lease agreement are reproduced hereinbelow : “LESSEE’S COVENANTS: 2 (j) On the expiry of the said period of the lease or any renewal thereof, the Lessee shall deliver the demised premises in such and condition as in consistent with the terms, covenants and conditions on the part of the Lessee herein contained (save and except damage to the demised premises by the fire unless the fire has occurred due to negligence of the Lessee), riots, earthquake, storm, war, civil commotion, acts of God and other conditions over which the Lessee shall have no control) SUBJECT ALWAYS to what is stated hereinafter. ASSIGNMENT/TERMINATION/RENEWAL 6 (a) The Lessee shall be entitle to assign or sub-let or otherwise allow use and occupation of the demised premises or any part thereof to its business associates, affiliate companies but not beyond the tenure of this lease or renewal thereof (if any) , as mentioned hereunder. (b) Notwithstanding anything contained herein, the Lessee shall always be entitled, without assigning any reason, to 1 D.B. Civil Spl. Appeal (Writ) No.332 of 2012 2 S.B. Civil Writ Petition No.8464 of 2009 3 Shop No.485 and basement [2024] 6 S.C.R. 283 Mahendra Kaur Arora v. HDFC Bank Ltd terminate this lease at any time before the expiry of the tenure of this lease or any renewal period (if any) thereof, by giving to the Lessor three months’ prior notice in writing.” 3. In terms of the lease agreement, the agreed monthly rent of the premises was fixed at ₹28,625/- (Rupees Twenty eight thousand six hundred twenty five only). Vide letter dated 10th May, 2004, the respondent-Bank terminated the lease agreement by issuing a three months’ notice in terms of clause 6 thereof. The said notice period was made effective from 16th August, 2004. 4. It is the version of the appellant-landlady that the respondent-Bank did not hand over the vacant and peaceful possession of the leased premises to her and instead, continued occupying the subject premises upto 18th June, 2006, when the keys were finally handed over to her.