The respondents were to purchase stamp papers at their expense and the appellants had to register the Sale Deed either in the name of the respondent no.1 or as proposed by him before the Sub-Registrar after paying the remaining/balance amount. If the appellants failed to register the Sale Deed, respondent no.1 had a right to deposit the balance of sale consideration in the Civil Court and get sale with possession effected through Court from the first party i.e., appellants no.1 to 3. 1 ‘33. In English law it is not permissible to take into account the subsequent behaviour or statements of the parties as an aid to interpreting their written agreement – see FL Schuler AG v Wickman Machine Tool Sales Ltd [1974] AC 235. The subsequent behaviour or statements of the parties can, however, be relevant, for a number of other reasons. First, they may be invoked to support the contention that the written agreement was a sham – ie that it was not in fact intended to govern the parties’ relationship at all. Secondly, they may be invoked in support of a claim for rectification of the written agreement. Thirdly, they may be relied on to support a claim that the written agreement was subsequently varied, or rescinded and replaced by a subsequent contract (agreed by words or conduct). Fourthly, they may be relied on to establish that the written agreement represented only part of the totality of the parties’ contractual relationship.’ [2024] 1 S.C.R. 383 Alagammal and Ors. v. Ganesan and Anr. 25. At this juncture, the Court would indicate that within six months there existed the onus of paying the entire balance amount of Rs.18,000/- by the respondent no.1 to the appellant no.1. It is not the case of the respondents that they had even offered to pay the remaining/balance amount before the expiry of the six-month period. Thus, payment of Rs.3,000/- only out of Rs.21,000/- having been made, or at best Rs.7,000/- out of Rs.21,000/-, which is the amount indicated in the Legal Notice sent by the respondents to the appellants, the obvious import would be that the respondents had not complied with their obligation under the Agreement within the six-month period. 26. Pausing here, it is notable that the appellant no.1 having accepted payment of Rs.1,000/- on 21.04.1997 i.e., after appellant no.1 had executed a Sale Deed in favour of appellant no.7 on 05.11.1997, coupled with the fact that the forensic expert found the two thumb- impressions purportedly acknowledging payment after the expiry of the time fixed not matching the fingerprints of appellant no.1 is clearly indicative that time having not been extended, no enforceable right accrued to the respondents for getting relief under the 1963 Act. At the highest, if the appellant no.1 had accepted money from respondent no.1 after the expiry of the time-limit, which itself has not been conclusively proved during trial or even at the first or second appellate stages, the remedy available to the defendants was to seek recovery of such money(ies) paid along with damages or interest to compensate such loss but a suit for specific performance to execute the Sale Deed would not be available, in the prevalent facts and circumstances.