If a treaty establishes a monitoring body or a mechanism to address complaints, any non-compliant state party may face public rulings against it.257 We believe that such public scrutiny can pressure the state to implement effective measures that protect children from the harmful effects of early marriage. VIII. Constitutional guarantees against child marriage 169. The right to free choice and autonomy, education and development of the child with all their offshoots are firmly recognised in this 253 India ratified the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women on July 9, 1993. 254 India ratified the Convention on the Rights of the Child in 1992. 255 Rangita De Silva De-Alwis, Child Marriage and the Law – Legislative Reform Initiative Paper Series (New York: Division of Policy and Planning, UNICEF, 2007), para 28. 256 Ibid, 6. 257 Ibid; See also Douglas, ‘The Significance of International Law’, 89-90. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1601 Society for Enlightenment and Voluntary Action & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. Court’s jurisprudence and the myriad legislations in India which we have traced above. The evolution and progress of child rights in the international arena have simultaneously been evolved and recognised in India. 170. The material deprivation of health, education, employment and life opportunities wreaked by child marriage is an affront to cherished constitutional principles of equality, liberty and free expression. Children who are thrown into forced marriages are deprived of their right to development of the child. Three quarters of a century after the commencement of the Constitution, child marriage remains a present and continuous threat to our society, social progress and individual liberty. The Constitution does not countenance such an affront. We shall trace the gamut of rights accruing against child marriage from the Constitution. 171. The right to life and liberty enshrined in Article 21 of the Constitution258 is violated by the commission of child marriage. All children married as minors are denied their right to choice and autonomy, right to education, right to sexuality and the right to development of the child. Girls who are married as children are denied their right to health. First, we shall analyze the right to choice, autonomy and sexuality, then we shall explore the right to health. We shall thereafter trace the right to childhood which includes the right to education and development. A. Right to self-determination: choice, autonomy and sexuality of children 172. Life’s meaning for any person is animated by their dignity, the ability to make free choices, the autonomy to have them translated into reality and to plan the peaks and troughs of life in good health. The journey a person travels from birth to death is made meaningful and enjoyable by the realization of these rights which are guaranteed under Article 21. 173. Child marriage deprives children of their agency, autonomy and right to fully develop and enjoy their childhood. The right to free choice and autonomy in marriage encompasses three fundamental rights: the right to free and informed consent, the right against gender based violence, and the right to sexual autonomy.