This Court thus opined that: “19. […] The Article in our opinion clearly shows that the minority will have the right to administer educational institutions of their choice provided they have established them, but not otherwise. The article cannot be read, to mean that even if the educational institution has been established by somebody else, any religious minority would have the right to administer it because, for some reason or other, it might have been administering it before the Constitution came into force. The words “establish and administer” in the article must be read conjunctively and so read it gives the right to the minority to administer an educational institution provided it has been established by it […]” 66. Having held so, this Court then proceeded to analyze each issue separately. D.3.1 Whether universities established pre-Constitution could be included within the ambit of Article 30? 67. This Court in Azeez Basha (supra) firstly observed that the term ‘educational institution’ in the Constitution had a wide expanse, and that universities, which would be institutions that could confer degrees, would be covered under the wide import of this term. It further observed that though some private universities in pre- Constitution India did not have government recognition, this would 1792 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports not disentitle them from being covered under the category of an ‘educational institution’. 68. Further, relying on the decision in In re the Kerala Education Bill,58 it held that if Article 30 were to be interpreted such that it covered only educational institutions established after the coming into force of the Constitution, it would rob Article 30 of its very meaning. In this vein, it held as follows: “19. … The words “establish and administer” in the article must be read conjunctively and so read it gives the right to the minority to administer an educational institution provided it has been established by it. In this connection our attention was drawn to In re; The Kerala Education Bill, 1957 where, it is argued, this Court had held that the minority can administer an educational institution even though it might not have established it. In that case an argument was raised that under Article 30(1) protection was given only to educational institutions established after the Constitution came into force. That argument was turned down by this Court for the obvious reason that if that interpretation was given to Article 30(1) it would be robbed of much of its content. … It is true that at p. 1062 the Court spoke of Article 30(1) giving two rights to a minority i.e. (i) to establish and (ii) to administer. But that was said only in the context of meeting [t]he argument that educational institutions established by minorities before the Constitution came into force did not have the protection of Article 30(1). We are of opinion that nothing in that case justifies the contention raised of behalf of the petitioners that the minorities would have the right to administer an educational institution even though the institution may not have been established by them.