Having analysed the remedies of parties upon the commission of a child marriage, we shall analyse the provisions which penalise the commission of child marriages in Part ii. Lastly, in Part iii we shall analyse the provisions which are aimed at preventing child marriages. i. Recourse to the wedded: maintenance, residence and custody 43. The PCMA prescribes that a petition under the Act may be filed before a district court having jurisdiction over the place where (i) the defendant resides; or (ii) the child resides; or (iii) the marriage was solemnized; or (iv) the parties last resided together; or (v) the petitioner is residing at the time of filing the petition. Such a court shall have jurisdiction to deal and decree the following reliefs: (i) to annul the marriage and issue a decree of nullity under Section 3 of the PCMA; 71 Section 2(a), PCMA. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1551 Society for Enlightenment and Voluntary Action & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. (ii) to provide for maintenance and residence to the female contracting party to a child marriage under Section 4; and (iii) for the custody and maintenance of children of a child marriage under Section 5. 44. The PCMA diverges from the CMRA in its approach towards the validity of child marriages as well as its enforcement. The PCMA prescribes that a child marriage is voidable at the instance of the contracting party who was a child at the time of the marriage.72 Section 3 stipulates that a petition for annulling a child marriage by a decree of nullity may be filed before the district court. Such a person must exercise the right to file the petition within two years of attaining the age of majority.73 In case the party is still a minor, the petition may be filed by their guardians or next friend along with the CMPO.74 In addition to entitling the minor contracting party to a child marriage to a decree of nullity, it also requires the district court to direct both parties to the marriage to return all money, valuables, ornaments and other articles exchanged as gifts at the time of marriage.75 In doing so, the district court must afford an opportunity to the parties against whom the of returning gifts is made.76 45. The PCMA further empowers the district court to provide for the maintenance and residence of the female contracting party to the child marriage. The court may pass an interim or final directing the grant of maintenance to the female contracting party by the male contracting party.77 Where the male contracting party is a minor, the court may issue a direction to his parents or guardians to maintain the female contracting party.78 The court may grant such a relief till the female contracting party remarries.79 In computing the amount of maintenance, the court shall have regard to the needs of the child, the lifestyle enjoyed by the child during marriage and the means of 72 Section 3, PCMA. 73 Section 3(3), PCMA.