22.3. In case the writ petitioners, Respondents 6 to 18 also figure in the merit list after re-evaluation of the answer scripts, their appointments shall relate back to the date when the appellants were first appointed with continuity of service to them for purpose of seniority but without any back wages or other incidental benefits.” 28. In K. Ameer Khan and Anr. Vs. A. Gangadharan and Ors., (2001) 9 SCC 84, a case involving the wrong computation of vacancies, while protecting the promotion of the appellants, this Court had the following to say:- “2. .....The appellants have been selected quite some time back and the first appellant has been promoted to a higher grade. The appellants were not responsible for the wrong computation of vacancies done by the second respondent. After the empanelment and appointment of the appellants, it is brought to our notice that there have been fresh promotions to the post of Assistant Controller of Stores at least on two occasions in June 1995 and May 1997. In a new selection, five Scheduled Caste candidates and four Scheduled Tribe candidates have been selected. The appellants could not participate in the same as they had already been promoted to the higher grade. Now, when the appellants have been working in the higher grade from 1994 onwards, it would not be equitable to disturb their promotions…….” 29. More recently, this Court in Vivek Kaisth (supra), following the of the Constitution Bench in Sivanandan C.T. and Others vs. High Court of Kerala and Ors., (2023) SCC OnLine SC 994 protected the appointments of the appellants even after finding that their appointments were in excess of the advertised vacancies. This Court held as under:- 36 [2024] 1 S.C.R. DIGITAL SUPREME COURT REPORTS “32. … …. Today, when we are delivering this the two appellants have already served as Judicial Officers for nearly 10 years. Meanwhile, they have also been promoted to the next higher post of Civil Judge (Senior Division). In this process of their selection and appointment (which has obviously benefitted them), nothing has been brought to our notice which may suggest any favouritism, nepotism or so-called blame as to the conduct of these two appellants, in securing these appointments. The High Court in fact notes this factor. While placing the blame on the State Commission it records that “………. there is nothing on record suggestive of the fact that any mala fides were behind the selection of respondents Nos.4 and 6……….” “34. The appellants were not entitled for any equitable relief in view of the High Court as they were the beneficiaries of an illegality committed by the Selection/appointing authority. But then it failed to take this question further, which in our opinion, it ought to have done. What the High Court never answered was as to how much of this blame of “illegal” selection and appointment would rest on the High Court (on its administrative side). Undoubtedly, with all intentions of timely filling of the vacancies, the High Court still cannot escape the blame…..” “36.