It is also true, that the objector must also be given a reasonable opportunity of being heard and any violation of the procedure prescribed under Section 5-A would seriously prejudice the rights of the owner of the property whose land is sought to be acquired. In the instant case, however, it is pertinent to note that the Collector had, in fact, conducted the Section 5-A inquiry, though there is no material on record to show that the appellants in Civil Appeal No. 66 of 1998 were heard in person. The facts and circumstances of Civil Appeal No. 66 of 1998 clearly show that the objection raised by the appellants was considered and partly allowed by the Collector. About eight acres of land was sought to be acquired from the appellants as per the notification, but out of that, an extent of six acres was excluded from acquisition and only one-and-a-half acres of land was actually acquired by the authorities. This would clearly show that the objection filed by the appellants was considered by the Collector.” [emphasis supplied] 44. Although Taj Kaur (supra) does support the NOIDA/State with reference to the issue of compliance of Section 5A in its letter and spirit, we need not dependent on the said reasoning in the instant case in view of overwhelming material on record which shows that the procedure as mandated by Section 5A has been substantially complied with. We shall now accordingly, analyse whether the Collector had disposed of the objections fairly and effectively? 22 [2003] 2 SCR 707 : (2003) 4 SCC 485, para 6. 1026 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports D.2.2. Effectiveness of disposal of objections 45. In this regard, the High Court has held that the Collector disposed of the objections improperly by a Common after grouping them, instead of evaluating merit of each claim separately. 46. The Collector undoubtedly decided 47 objections by clubbing them into five groups. However, such grouping was done keeping in view the similarities of contents and the fact that they pertained to the same parcel of land. For instance, Objection Nos 1, 17, 30, and 31 were grouped because they pertained to the same land, i.e., Gata No. 448 and 449, and had a common concern regarding existing construction on that land. Wherever the objections were distinct in nature, such as Objection No. 25 (which was regarding the quantum of compensation), the same was considered and decided separately. 47. Since the objections were classified because of the similarity of substance, it was plausible to group them together and dispose of by way of a Common .23 If we were to endorse the High Court’s view on this point, it would lead to sheer wastage of time and energy that would be spent in duplicating the recommendations for each individual objection. Moreover, this might be nearly impossible in some cases, such as the one mentioned in Aflatoon v. Lt. Governor of Delhi,24 where more than 6000 objections were filed under Section 5A. It will be preposterous to say that objections cannot be consolidated even when they are similar or that the Collector must undertake the daunting—and at the same time unnecessary—task of disposing of thousands of objections separately.