AMU meets this criterion since it originated as MAO College, which was established and administered by Muslims. The desire to convert MAO College to AMU came from the Muslim community, having gathered funds from the Muslim community. Further, AMU was established with the desire of the Muslim community to have their own university. Therefore, AMU can be said to have been established by the Muslim community. f. The establishment of AMU was an exercise completed by the Muslim community, and the AMU Act, 1920 merely conferred statutory recognition to such an establishment. It was not a creation of the Statute but was rather an acknowledgement 1802 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports by a Statute. Merely because a university was incorporated through State action cannot confer or take away from its nature, as every juristic entity is a creation of State action. g. The administration of AMU was also under the control of Muslims. All members of the AMU Court were required to be Muslims, and its powers were further strengthened by the 1981 Amendment Act. The administration, which entails overall control, remains with the Muslim community. Even if it were determined that external members had administrative roles, it would not jeopardize the university’s minority status. This is because the Muslim community retains the right to reclaim administrative control, as Fundamental Rights cannot be waived. h. Lastly, the Union of India (UOI) cannot be allowed to challenge its own statutory enactment, i.e., 1981 Amendment Act. Such a summersault in its stance cannot be permitted merely because of a change in the political regime. Furthermore, the UOI has not substantiated the reason for such a volte-face. Thus, its approach lacks bona fides,and the UOI, particularly the Attorney General for India, is obligated to defend such an act of Parliament. Hence, it cannot take a stand against the minority status of AMU. Respondents’ submissions: 81. Mr. R. Venkataramani, Learned Attorney General for India, Mr. Tushar Mehta, Learned Solicitor General of India, Mr. K. M. Nataraj and Mr. Vikramjit Banerjee, Learned Additional Solicitor Generals of India, Mr. Rakesh Dwivedi, Mr. N. K. Kaul, Mr. G. K. Kumar, Mr. Vinay Navare, Mr. Sridhar Potaraju and Ms. Archana P. Dave Learned Senior Advocates, appeared on behalf of the Respondents. Their arguments are detailed hereinbelow: a. A bench of two judges could not have directly referred the matter to a bench composed of seven judges in Anjuman (supra) and as such, the reference itself ought to be construed as bad in law. Further, the reference only sought clarity on the definition of a minority institution under Article 30 of the Constitution and did not include examination of whether AMU is a minority educational institution. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1803 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. b. Challenging the locus standi of the Appellant, it was argued that Muslims do not constitute a minority community. For a community to be a minority, it should not just be numerically less than the majority but should also be politically non-dominant.