381 Vinod Jaswantray Vyas (Dead) Through Lrs v. The State of Gujarat ….I have filed the complaint. In this complaint as witness No.3 name of Vasu Parthasarthi is in Ex-12 complaint who is not known to me….. ….In this complaint I did not give the name of Anna as the witness. On 1/7/92, complaint was filed. During the period when I had sent to telegram and filed the present complaint, Vasu, Ravi, Hari and Anna none of these persons had met me and I have not met them…. ….It is not true that I, Jaykant and my sister and my deceased brother Jeeva were jointly working as botleggers. It is not true that, due to Vyas Sir joining the duty, as this business has been closed, we have animosity towards Vyas Sir….” Cross-examination of Selvin Prabhakar(PW-1) “8…..Thereafter on the next day, at 5.45 hours in the evening when my brother was brought in the Court at that time Advocate Shri Patanwadia met us. Prior to that we did not inform to our advocate that as my brother is to be produced, he should make the preparation for getting him released on bail…. ….During the period from 5.45 to 6.45 hours means for around one hour my brother was made to sit in the Court. During this period in the Court room many persons were moving….. ….After my brother was brought in the Court, Patanwadia Sir had gone out of the court compound. We had sent the message to Patanwadia Sir and he came there and after meeting he had gone. Our advocate stayed with us for five-ten minutes…. ….After my brother was beaten up, we met Patanwadia Sir in the Court and during the intervening period, we did not meet him. In the Court when Patanwadia Sir met us for five-ten minutes, at that time he was informed that my brother Jeeva has been beaten up in this manner and we had shown the marks of my brother Jeeva getting beaten up. These marks were not shown to Patanwadia Sir so that he can take appropriate actions…. 382 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 9. When Jeeva is produced before the Magistrate and if Jeevo makes a complaint before the Magistrate about his getting beaten up, then threat was given to him for killing him. We had informed about this to our advocate Patanwadia Sir. At the time when Jeeva was produced before the Magistrate at that time Patanwadia Sir should remain present before the Magistrate, about which we had not given intimation to Patanwadia Sir. However he told to us that at the time when Jeeva will be produced before the Hon’ble Magistrate, at that time we should inform him. When Patanwadia Sir left the court compound means at the second time he did not meet us….. 10…..We do not have any relationship with accused person Mr. Vyas and we also do not have relationship with Patel Sir. Prior to the incident I had never met any of the accused persons….. 11.….The facts as to how he was beaten up and who had beaten up where, have not been stated in the telegram….. 12.….My brother was kept at the Karanj Bhavan for two and half hour.