Also, under Entry 84 – List I, the Parliament has no power to levy any such excise duty on such “intoxicating liquors” meant for human consumption as a beverage as it is an expressly excluded item. In other words, alcoholic liquors for human consumption is thus directly relatable to “intoxicating liquors” and the expression “intoxicating liquors” in Entry 8 – List II means alcoholic liquors directly for human consumption as a beverage. Thus, no other alcoholic liquors can be regulated as per Entry 8 – List II except to ensure that there is no abuse/misuse of “industrial alcohol” being treated for human consumption by subjecting it to a particular process; nor can any excise duty be levied on such liquor by the State Legislature. Hence, any “intoxicating liquors” would mean alcoholic liquors for human consumption which is produced, manufactured, possessed, transported, purchased or sold and can be regulated under Entry 8 – List II by the State Legislature but alcoholic liquors which are not for human consumption as a beverage would not come within the scope of the expression “intoxicating liquors”, such as “industrial alcohol” which 2138 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports would in turn be regulated by Entry 24 – List II which Entry is subject to Entry 52 – List I and can be controlled by the Union exclusively. Thus, “industrial alcohol” and medicinal and toilet preparations which contain alcohol can be taxed as per Entry 84 – List I by the Central Government in the form of central excise duty. 13.9 Merely because “industrial alcohol” by a process can be converted to alcohol for human consumption as a beverage does not entitle the State Legislature to tax or regulate “industrial alcohol”. On the other hand, the States as per Entry 8 – List II have the power to regulate “intoxicating liquors” which is for human consumption as a beverage and in that regard have the power to prohibit “industrial alcohol” being converted to alcohol for human consumption as a beverage. This is in to protect the health of citizens which is a Directive Principle of State Policy under Article 47 of the Constitution and in to prohibit unauthorised use/misuse of “industrial alcohol” produced in the State from being converted and sold as “intoxicating liquors” meant for human consumption as a beverage. 13.10 This interpretation would become clearer on a reading of Entry 33(a) – List III which deals with, inter alia, trade and commerce in, and the production, supply and distribution of the products of any industry where the control of such industry by the Union is declared by Parliament by law to be expedient in the public interest, and also includes imported goods of the same kind as such products. Therefore, if products of any industry where the control of such industry by the Union has been declared by Parliament by law to be expedient in public interest are manufactured in India or imported into India, then as per Entry 33(a) – List III, on the production, supply and distribution of and trade and commerce of such industrial products, the State Legislature would not have any exclusive power to pass a law under Entries 26 and 27 – List II as they are subject to Entry 33(a) – List III.