In that the detenue should be in a position effectively to make his representation against the , he should have knowledge of the grounds of detention, which are in the nature of the charge against him setting out the kinds of prejudicial acts which the authorities attribute to him. Communication, in this context, must therefore, mean imparting to the detenue sufficient knowledge of all the grounds on which the of Detention is based. In this case the grounds are several & are based on numerous [2024] 1 S.C.R. 279 Sarfaraz Alam V. Union of India & Ors. speeches said to have been made by the appellant himself on different occasions and different dates. Naturally, therefore, any oral translation or explanation given by the police officer serving those on the detenue would not amount to communicating the grounds. Communication, in this context, must mean bringing home to the detenue effective knowledge of the facts and circumstances on which the of Detention is based.” (emphasis supplied) 16. On facts, we find that the detenue is not entitled to any relief as he has not only suppressed the facts as proved in his refusal to receive the grounds of detention, apart from reading them in detail, but has also approached the Court with unclean hands. It seems to us that it is a deliberate ploy adopted by the detenue to secure favourable s from the Court. A perusal of the panchnama clearly indicates the adequacy of his knowledge in English, as he has not only signed the document in English but also made his objection with respect to receipt of the grounds of detention. We find no error in the procedure adopted by the respondents as due compliance was made to translate all documents in Bengali apart from persuading the detenue to receive them. In addition, the panchnama was signed by the independent witnesses. The detenue also read the grounds of detention and the relevant documents. Therefore, he was well aware of his right to make a representation. 17. As discussed, the grounds of detention forming the basis of the satisfaction of the detaining authority, were made known to the detenue. He cannot seek all the facts, including access to the telephonic conversation relied on, especially when he did not exercise his right to make the representation. It is pertinent to mention that we are only dealing with the validity of the detention and not a regular criminal case against the accused. 18. The other grounds raised also do not merit any acceptance, in the light of our earlier discussion. We also find that the grounds of detention were attempted to be served on the detenue at the earliest point of time – i.e. on the very next day after his detention. 280 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 19. For the foregoing reasons, we find no ground to interfere with the impugned passed by the High Court of Calcutta. The appeal stands dismissed. Pending application(s), if any, stand(s) disposed of. Headnotes prepared by: Divya Pandey Result of the case: Appeal dismissed.