21. Admittedly, the Accepting Authority has met the timelines prescribed under Rule 5(1) of the PAR Rules and accordingly, in view of the compliance with mandatory timelines prescribed under the PAR Rules we find no reason to expunge the remarks and overall grades awarded to Respondent No. 1 by the Accepting Authority on the PAR on account of a contravention of the timelines prescribed under the Schedule. 22. Now we turn our attention to the fulcrum of the dispute before this Court i.e., whether the High Court ought to have interfered with the CAT in exercise of its jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution of India? 23. At the outset we would like to deal with Respondent No. 1’s reliance on Dev Dutt (Supra). The said case underscored the importance of, inter alia, communicating entries of evaluation to the candidate, irrespective of whether such evaluation was adverse in the eyes of the assessing entity i.e., the Court stressed the fact that in matters of selection and promotion, a comparative lens must be adopted whereunder the adverse nature of an evaluation must be contingent not only on whether such evaluation would have an adverse impact on the candidate but also whether it would affect the candidates’ chances of promotion to the next category. 24. In this context, although it was submitted by Mr. Khemka that prejudice has been caused to Respondent No. 1, we find ourselves unable to accept the said contention on account of the fact that Respondent No. 1 was awarded an overall grade ‘9’ which undisputedly forms a part of the ‘outstanding’ grade i.e., the highest category awarded to an IAS officer. Accordingly, in our opinion there can be no qualm that the said overall grade is more than sufficient for the purposes 404 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of empanelment / promotion vis-à-vis Respondent No. 1. Thus, the reliance placed on Dev Dutt (Supra) by Respondent No. 1 is misplaced in the present factual matrix. 25. Now, turning to the issue framed in Paragraph 22 of this Judgement above, we find ourselves grappling with a foundational principle of our constitution i.e., that the judiciary must exercise restraint and avoid unnecessary intervention qua administrative decision(s) of the executive involving specialised expertise in the absence of any mala-fide and / or prejudice. In this regard it would be appropriate to refer to our decision in Caretel Infotech Ltd. v. Hindustan Petroleum Corpn. Ltd., (2019) 14 SCC 81 whereunder this Court observed as under: “38….It has been cautioned that Constitutional Courts are expected to exercise restraint in interfering with the administrative decision and ought not to substitute their view for that of the administrative authority. Mere disagreement with the decision-making process would not suffice.” 26. Similarly, this Court in State of Jharkhand v. Linde India Ltd., (2022) 107 GSTR 381 whilst delineating the scope of interference of the High Court exercising jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution of India vis-à-vis a finding of fact by experts observed as under: “7.