7. The Trial Court, having found the version of the two eyewitnesses to be trustworthy, which was duly corroborated by the medical evidence and the recovery of the weapon, held Gurpreet Singh guilty of the offence under Section 302 IPC, whereas his co-accused were held guilty for the offence under Section 302/34 IPC. All of them were sentenced to undergo life imprisonment. 8. The High Court, vide the impugned , disbelieved the version of Gursewak Singh (P.W.2, the Complainant) and his daughter, Harmandeep Kaur (P.W.3), primarily for the reasons that (i) Gursewak Singh (P.W.2) had gone for the medical checkup of 1044 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports his son to a hospital in Jagraon. It was not possible for him to reach back Doraha at the time of occurrence, as the distance was of about 70 kms. (ii) Gursewak Singh (P.W.2) failed to disclose the names of the co-accused, Harpreet Singh and Kashmira Singh, in his first version, and he is stated to have re-collected their names after about five hours. (iii) It is doubtful that Harmandeep Kaur (P.W.3) would be attending her classes from her parental house rather than from her in-laws’ house since she got married only a few months ago. (iv) No Test Identification Parade was conducted. (v) There is a great mystery about the nomination of Jagdeep Singh, Harpreet Singh S/o Veer Singh and Kashmira Singh because, as per the testimony of the eyewitnesses, they were never named before the police, and even the Investigating Officer has also not disclosed as to how these persons have been nominated as accused. (vi) These discrepancies, inconsistencies and unexplained circumstances go to the root of the case and severely dent the credibility of Gursewak Singh (P.W.2) and his daughter. 9. The High Court, thus, viewed that once the defence is able to cast a reasonable doubt on the story of the prosecution, the necessary consequence will be the acquittal of the accused. 10. Discontented with the acquittal of the accused persons, the State of Punjab is in appeal before us. Contentions of Parties 11. Mr. Gaurav Dhama, learned Additional Advocate General for the State of Punjab, argued that the High Court erred in acquitting the accused, by setting aside the well-reasoned findings by the Trial Court, which categorically stated that based on the direct and unequivocal statements provided by both the witnesses (P.W.2 and P.W.3), it was conclusively proved that Gurpreet Singh fired shots at Amarjit Kaur. The Complainant and the eyewitness, having lost a close family member in the incident, had no motive to protect the real accused or falsely implicate the innocent persons of committing the crime. Mr. Dhama vehemently contended that Gurpreet Singh harboured suspicions that the deceased played a big role in his divorce. He kept holding a grudge against her, which served as the motive for the murder. Additionally, the testimonies of Gursewak Singh (P.W.2) and his daughter, Harmandeep Kaur (P.W.3), distinctly indicated that soon after Amarjit Kaur was shot, she was discovered to be dead, [2024] 2 S.C.R.