This Court in North Eastern Chemicals Industries (P) Ltd. and Another v. Ashok Paper Mill (Assam) Ltd. and Another 23 observed: “When no limitation stands prescribed it would be inappropriate for a Court to supplant the legislature’s wisdom by its own and provide a limitation, more so in accordance with what it believes to be the appropriate period.” Courts should be wary of prescribing a specific period of limitation in cases where the legislature has refrained from doing so.24 If we give a narrow and restrictive meaning to Section 29A(4), we would be indulging in judicial legislation by incorporating a negative stipulation of a bar of limitation, which has a severe annulling effect. Such an interpretation will add words to widen the scope of legislation and amount to modification or rewriting of the statute. If the legislature intended such an outcome, it could have stated in the statute that – “the Court may extend the period only if the application is filed before the expiry of the mandate of the arbitrator, not after”. Indeed, there would have been no need to use the phrase “after the expiry of the period” in the statute. 21 Supra note 11. 22 Shailesh Dhairyawan v. Mohan Balkrishna Lulla, (2016) 3 SCC 619. 23 [2023] 15 SCR 821 : 2023 SCC OnLine SC 1649. 24 Ajaib Singh v. Sirhind Cooperative Marketing-cum-Processing Service Society Ltd. and Another, (1999) 6 SCC 82. [2024] 9 S.C.R. 485 Rohan Builders (India) Private Limited v. Berger Paints India Limited In other words, a rigid interpretation would amount to legislating and prescribing a limitation period for filing an application under Section 29A, when the section does not conspicuously so state. Rather, the expression and intent of the provision are to the contrary. 14. In our opinion, a restrictive interpretation would lead to rigour, impediments and complexities. A party would have to rush to the court even when the period of arbitral mandate of twelve months has not expired, notwithstanding the possibility of a consent- based extension of six months under Section 29A(3). Narrow interpretation presents an additional challenge by relegating a faultless party to a fresh reference or appointment of an arbitrator under the A & C Act,25 thereby impeding arbitration rather than facilitating it.26 The legislature vide the 2015 Amendment envisions arbitration as a litigant-centric process by expediting disposal of cases and reducing the cost of litigation.27 A narrow interpretation will be counterproductive. The intention is appropriately captured in the following observations made in the 176th Report of the Law Commission of India : “2.21.1 (…) But the omission of the provision for extension of time and therefore the absence of any time limit has given rise to another problem, namely, that awards are getting delayed before the arbitral tribunal even under the 1996 Act. One view is that this is on account of the absence of a provision as to time limit for passing an award. xx xx xx 2.21.3 (…) The time limit can be more realistic subject to extension only by the court.