It was observed that accepting an affidavit with such blanks would rescind the verdict in Union of India vs. Association for Democratic Reforms and another13. In effect, the Bench held that filing of an affidavit with blank particulars would render the affidavit nugatory. In Kisan Shankar Kathore (supra), the issue before this Court was whether non-disclosure of certain government dues in the nomination would amount to a material lapse impacting the election of the returned candidate. On facts, this Court found that the non-disclosure of electricity and municipal dues was not a serious lapse as there was a dispute raised in the context thereof. Having said so, this Court clarified that it would depend upon the facts and circumstances of each case as to whether such non-disclosure would amount to a material lapse or not. This Court, however, found that there were, in fact, material lapses by the returned candidate, inasmuch as he had failed to disclose the bungalow standing in the name of his wife and also a vehicle owned by her. Further, he had also failed to disclose his interest/share in a partnership firm which amounted to a very serious and major lapse. The observations of this Court, in the context of improper acceptance of his nomination, are of relevance: ‘43.When the information is given by a candidate in the affidavit filed along with the nomination paper and objections are raised thereto questioning the correctness of the information or alleging that there is non-disclosure of certain important information, it may not be possible 12 [2013] 9 SCR 360 : (2014) 14 SCC 189 13 [2002] 3 SCR 696 : (2002) 5 SCC 294 418 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports for the Returning Officer at that time to conduct a detailed examination. Summary enquiry may not suffice. The present case is itself an example which loudly demonstrates this. At the same time, it would not be possible for the Returning Officer to reject the nomination for want of verification about the allegations made by the objector. In such a case, when ultimately it is proved that it was a case of non-disclosure and either the affidavit was false or it did not contain complete information leading to suppression, it can be held at that stage that the nomination was improperly accepted. Ms Meenakshi Arora, learned Senior Counsel appearing for the Election Commission, rightly argued that such an enquiry can be only at a later stage and the appropriate stage would be in an election petition as in the instant case, when the election is challenged. The grounds stated in Section 36(2) are those which can be examined there and then and on that basis the Returning Officer would be in a position to reject the nomination. Likewise, where the blanks are left in an affidavit, nomination can be rejected there and then. In other cases where detailed enquiry is needed, it would depend upon the outcome thereof, in an election petition, as to whether the nomination was properly accepted or it was a case of improper acceptance.