Digital Supreme Court Reports which is pleaded, there has to be evidence, either oral or documentary, to substantiate the same. A bald averment or mere statement by a defendant bereft of evidentiary material to back up such averment/ statement takes such defendant’s case nowhere. While deciding a statutory appeal under Section 116A of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 against an of the Gauhati High Court rejecting an Election Petition, this Court in Kalyan Kumar Gogoi v Ashutosh Agnihotri (2011) 2 SCC 532 commented that the term ‘evidence’ is used colloquially in different senses: “33. The word “evidence” is used in common parlance in three different senses: (a) as equivalent to relevant, (b) as equivalent to proof, and (c) as equivalent to the material, on the basis of which courts come to a conclusion about the existence or non-existence of disputed facts. Though, in the definition of the word “evidence” given in Section 3 of the Evidence Act one finds only oral and documentary evidence, this word is also used in phrases such as best evidence, circumstantial evidence, corroborative evidence, derivative evidence, direct evidence, documentary evidence, hearsay evidence, indirect evidence, oral evidence, original evidence, presumptive evidence, primary evidence, real evidence, secondary evidence, substantive evidence, testimonial evidence, etc.” (emphasis supplied) 25. However, we see in the facts at hand that there is no dispute qua execution of the Agreement. The respondent claims/pleads coercion etc. Arguendo, such was the case, what would assume relevance would be the steps taken immediately thereafter by the respondent. Admittedly, no steps whatsoever were taken, in law, by the respondent to resile from the Agreement or to revoke it for at least half a decade i.e., from the date of the Agreement till the suit came to be instituted. The respondent did not even lodge appropriate legal proceedings and hence, it does not lie in his mouth to take the plea that the Agreement was not signed voluntarily. If such coercion etc. had actually occurred, the respondent has no explanation to offer as to why he did not avail of any civil law remedy (to have the Agreement nullified or voided) or take recourse to criminal law (filing a complaint or registering a First Information Report). What seems clear to us [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1013 A.B. Govardhan v. P. Ragothaman is that the panchayat tried to resolve the dispute and that led to the Agreement between the parties. 26. It would be profitable to refer to some decisions, after looking at the relevant provisions of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882 (hereinafter referred to as the “Act”). Chapter IV of the Act is entitled “Of Mortgages Of Immovable Property And Charges” and the relevant Section is quoted below: “58. “‘Mortgage’, ‘mortgagor’, ‘mortgagee’, ‘mortgage- money’ and ‘mortgage-deed’” defined.—(a) A mortgage is the transfer of an interest in specific immoveable property for the purpose of securing the payment of money advanced or to be advanced by way of loan, an existing or future debt, or the performance of an engagement which may give rise to a pecuniary liability.