A clause providing for forfeiture of an amount could fundamentally be in the nature of a penalty clause or a forfeiture clause in the strict sense or even both, and the same has to be determined in the facts of every case keeping in mind the nature of contract and the nature of consequence envisaged by it. 81. Ordinarily, a forfeiture clause in the strict sense will not be a penal clause, if its consequence is intended not as a sanction for breach of obligation but rather as security for performance of the obligation. This is why Fateh Chand (supra) Maula Bux (supra) and Satish Batra (supra) held that forfeiture of earnest-money deposit is not a penal clause, as the deposit of earnest money is intended to signify assent of the purchaser to the contract, and its forfeiture is envisaged as a deterrent to ensure performance of the obligation. 82. We are conscious of the fact that in Maula Bux (supra) this Court observed that the deposit of a sum by the purchaser as security for guaranteeing due performance was held as a penalty. However, a close reading would reveal that the reason why this Court held the said deposit as a penal clause was because the said amount was paid over and above the earnest-money deposit already paid by the purchaser in the said case and more importantly the said sum was not liable to be adjusted against the total consideration. Hence, this Court held the same to be a penalty rather than earnest money. The relevant observation read as under: - “4. ... In the present case the deposit was made not of a sum of money by the purchaser to be applied towards part payment of the price when the contract was completed and till then as evidencing an intention on the part of the purchaser to buy property or goods. Here the plaintiff had [2024] 2 S.C.R. 73 The Authorised Officer, Central Bank of India v. Shanmugavelu deposited the amounts claimed as security for guaranteeing due performance of the contracts. Such deposits cannot be regarded as earnest money. …” (Emphasis supplied) 83. The difference between an earnest or deposit and an advance part payment of price is now well established in law. Earnest is something given by the Promisee to the Promisor to mark the conclusiveness of the contract. This is quite apart from the price. It may also avail as a part payment if the contract goes through. But even so it would not lose its character as earnest, if in fact and in truth it was intended as mere evidence of the bargain. An advance is a part to be adjusted at the time of the final payment. If the Promisee defaults to carry out the contract, he loses the earnest but may recover the part payment leaving untouched the Promisor’s right to recover damages. Earnest need not be money but may be some gift or token given. It denotes a thing of value usually a coin of the realm given by the Promisor to indicate that the bargain is concluded between them and as tangible proof that he means business.