22. The CEC states that the lease-wise R&R Plans have been prepared for all mining leases, which have been submitted by the Joint Team. It consists of two broad components: (a) R&R Plans for areas found to be under illegal mining by the Joint Team and (b) Supplementary Environment Management Plan. In addition, Comprehensive Environment Plans for the Mining Impact Zone13 for the areas surrounding the mining leases, would be prepared. 23. Accordingly, the CEC and CEPMIZ had proposed, and it was accepted by this Court, that MPAP for each of the mining leases should be implemented and executed. This figure may be substantially lower than permissible limits specified under the Environment Clearance, Approved Mining Plan, and/or the Consent to Operate, granted for the respective mining leases. For the purpose of feasible annual production, the following factors would be kept in mind:- (a) mineral reserves in the lease area; (b) area available for overburden/waste dump(s) and subgrade dump(s); and (c) existing transport facilities vis-a-vis the traffic load of the mining lease and adjoining mining leases. 24. The MPAP is the minimum of the quantity that may be feasible based on the above three parameters. Further, if the total of the lease- wise annual production from all the leases in the district exceeds the ceiling limit fixed for a specific district, then the MPAP for each mining lease was/is to be scaled down on a pro-rata basis, to ensure that the district-level production ceiling is not breached. 25. The aforesaid parameters were accepted by this Court by the dated 13.04.2012. We respectfully concur and state that these directions shall continue. 13 For short, “CEPMIZ”. [2024] 3 S.C.R. 1303 Samaj Parivartana Samudaya & Ors. v. State of Karnataka & Ors. 26. Our attention has been drawn to the CEC report dated 14.07.2017 and the s passed by this Court on 14.12.2017 and 26.08.2022. 27. Keeping in view the aforesaid position, we would request the CEC, together with the Monitoring Committee and aid and advice of the Oversight Authority, to undertake a complete exercise in the three districts, and the respective mining leases situated therein, and submit a report before this Court. While undertaking the said exercise, they shall keep in mind the parameters referred to in the report dated 13.03.2012. The CEC will be entitled to take help and assistance of the scientific domain experts who will examine data, including environmental pollution data available/recorded in the districts from time to time. 28. A copy of the said report will be filed before this Court within a period of four months from today. While submitting the report, it shall also be examined whether sub-caps in particular areas should be fixed or caps should be increased or decreased. In other words, the CEC will also examine whether a mining cap must be imposed in an area for better compliance and regulation. 29. Further, the CEC, the Monitoring Committee and the Oversight Authority will examine whether any form of regulation like e-auctioning is required to be put in place for the sale of the mined material.