In such a case, could such a dismissal be reconciled with the purported decree drawn up against Samiullah? The answer would have to be in the negative. 534 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Or, take the situation that has cropped up here. The suit has been dismissed qua Kazmi on 27th April, 2009 as abated. Although Ms. Arora had submitted in course of hearing that steps have since been successfully taken to set aside abatement and an assurance was given to file additional documents by 12th December, 2023 in support of such a submission, the additional documents e-filed beyond time do not reveal that (i) abatement has been set aside, (ii) the heirs/ legal representatives substituted in place of Kazmi and (iii) the suit restored to its original file and number. The result is that the suit stands dismissed as against the principal defendant without any determination by the Trial Court on his objection that such court did not possess the jurisdiction to entertain and try the suit. 22. We are constrained to observe that it is to avoid such a situation of contradictory/inconsistent decrees that power under Rule 10 of VIII ought to be invoked with care, caution, and circumspection, only when none of several defendants file their written statements and upon the taking of evidence from the side of the plaintiff, if deemed necessary, the entire suit could be decided. As in the present case, where even one of several defendants had filed a written statement, it would be a judicious exercise of discretion for the court to opt for the second alternative in Rule 10 of VIII, CPC unless, of course, extraordinary circumstances exist warranting recourse to the first alternative. In the matter at hand, the filing of the written statement by Kazmi denying the averments made in the plaint warranted that the appellants’ claims be proved by evidence, oral and/or documentary, instead of decreeing the suit against one of the defendants in a most slipshod manner. 23. We find close resemblance of the facts and circumstances under consideration in Swaran Lata Ghosh v. H.K. Banerjee11. A money suit instituted by the respondent before this Court was tried by the High Court at Calcutta and after taking evidence the learned Single Judge on 17th August, 1962, passed the following : “There will be a decree for Rs 15,000 with interest on on Rs 15,000 at 6% per annum and costs. No interim interest allowed.” 11 (1969) 1 SCC 709 [2024] 1 S.C.R. 535 Asma Lateef & Anr. v. Shabbir Ahmad & Ors. Pursuant to that a decree was drawn up. An appeal carried from the decree before the Division Bench failed. The Division Bench assigned sketchy reasons for the conclusion that the Trial Court “rightly decreed the suit” and disposed of the appeal with certain modification of the decree. While allowing the appeal and setting aside the decree passed by the high court and remanding the suit to the Court of first instance for trial according to law, this Court noted that Rules 1 to 8 of XX, CPC are, by the express provision contained in Rule 3(5) of XLIX, CPC inapplicable to a Chartered High Court in the exercise of its ordinary or extraordinary original civil jurisdiction and hence, a judge of a Chartered High Court was not obliged to record reasons in a strictly according to the provisions contained in Rules 4(2) and 5 of XX, CPC.