It appears that a thought was given to the problems and the Narasimham Committee was constituted which recommended for such a legislation keeping in view the changing times and economic situation whereafter yet another Expert Committee was constituted, then alone the impugned law was enacted. Liquidity of finances and flow of money is essential for any healthy and growth-oriented economy. But certainly, what must be kept in mind is that the law should not be in derogation of the rights which are guaranteed to the people under the Constitution. The procedure should also be fair, reasonable and valid, though it may vary looking to the different situations needed to be tackled and object sought to be achieved.” (Emphasis supplied) [2024] 2 S.C.R. 83 The Authorised Officer, Central Bank of India v. Shanmugavelu 104. Thus, the High Court committed an egregious error by proceeding to read down Rule 9(5) of the SARFAESI Rules in the absence of the said provision being otherwise invalid or unworkable in terms of its plain and ordinary meaning without appreciating the purpose and object of the said provision. iii) Whether, the forfeiture of the entire earnest-money deposit amounts to Unjust Enrichment? 105. The High Court whilst passing the impugned thought fit to reduce the extent of amount forfeited in view of the subsequent sale of the Secured Asset by the appellant bank at much higher price than the previous auction. This in the High Court’s opinion meant that no loss had been caused to the appellant bank, as it had duly recovered more than its dues from the subsequent sale and as such was not entitled to forfeit the entire amount of deposit as doing so would amount to unjust enrichment, which is not permissible by the SARFAESI Act. 106. However, we are not in agreement with the aforesaid observations of the High Court. When an auction fails and a fresh auction is required to be conducted in respect of the Secured Asset, there looms a degree of uncertainty as to the extent of bids that may be received in the future auction or whether the fresh auction would even be successful or not. More often than not, with the efflux of time, the value of the Secured Asset erodes. In such a case it would be preposterous to tie or limit the forfeiture under Rule 9(5) of the SARFAESI Rules on an eventuality or a contingency of a subsequent sale of the secured asset if any. 107. As regards whether, the forfeiture of the entire amount of deposit even after having recovered the entire debt amounts to unjust enrichment or not? It would be apposite to understand what is meant by ‘unjust enrichment’. 108. In Sahakari Khand Udyog Mandal Ltd. v. Commissioner of Central Excise & Customs reported in (2005) 3 SCC 738, the Court observed that the doctrine of unjust enrichment is based on equity and refers to the inequitable retention of a benefit. The relevant observations are reproduced below: - 84 [2024] 2 S.C.R.