[2024] 7 S.C.R. 1398 : 2024 INSC 527 Amro Devi & Ors. v. Julfi Ram (Deceased) Thr. Lrs. & Ors. (Civil Appeal No. 7791 of 2024) 15 July 2024 [Vikram Nath* and Prashant Kumar Mishra, JJ.] Issue for Consideration Respondents had filed a suit for declaration and permanent injunction against Appellants, claiming to be owners in possession of suit land on the basis of an alleged compromise entered into by them in an earlier litigation with the original owners of the property. The suit was dismissed by the trial court. The of dismissal was set aside in first appeal filed by the Respondents and the of first appellate court was confirmed by the High Court in regular second appeal vide the impugned . Whether the High Court was justified in upholding the of the first Appellate court vide which Respondents’ suit for declaration and permanent injunction was decreed in their favour. Headnotes† Compromise decree – What constitutes a valid compromise decree: Held: There was no written compromise deed between the parties, there was no verification as such of any written document – The defendants, in the first round of litigation, were admittedly tenants – They could have become owners of the land in suit either by way of a registered sale deed in their favour or by way of a declaration by the Competent Civil Court whether on merits or by way of a compromise decree granting such declaration – Neither of the two happened – Merely because some statement of the parties is recorded by the first Appellate Court that they have settled the dispute and that the suit may be dismissed, would not make the defendants therein from tenants to owners – Dismissal of the suit would only mean that their status as tenants would continue – A plain reading of Rule 3 of XXIII CPC clearly provides that for a valid compromise * Author [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1399 Amro Devi & Ors. v. Julfi Ram (Deceased) Thr. Lrs. & Ors. in a suit there has to be a lawful agreement or compromise in writing and signed by the parties which would then require it to be proved to the satisfaction of the Court – In the present case there is no document in writing containing the terms of the agreement or compromise – Thus, it cannot be said that the dated 20.08.1984 was an under XXIII Rule 3 CPC – Once it is held that the dated 20.08.1984 was not an of compromise of suit under XXIII Rule 3 CPC the argument relating to applicability and bar under XXIII Rule 3A CPC would have no relevance at all – In the case of Som Dev v. Rati Ram (2006) 10 SCC 788 it was clarified by this Court that after the amendment of Code of Civil Procedure in 1977, a compromise decree can be passed only on compliance with the requirements of Rule 3 of XXIII, otherwise it may not be possible to recognize the same as compromise decree – Mere statements of the parties before court about such said compromise, cannot satisfy the requirements of XXIII Rule 3 of the CPC – Therefore, the compromise decree is not valid.