The latter principle applies when the legitimacy of the objective is flawed and manifests arbitrariness. We shall subsequently elaborate on the legal meaning of substantive equality. 60. This evolution of the law under Article 14 aligns with judicial decisions in the United States, United Kingdom, Canada, and South Africa. For our purposes, we will refer to some decisions of the Supreme Court of Canada that exemplify the development of Canada’s approach to equality as articulated in Section 15 of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms, 1982.53 61. Section 15 of the Canadian Charter54 aims to provide substantive 50 See Ram Krishna Dalmia (supra) and Chiranjit Lal Chowdhuri v. Union of India, AIR 1951 SC 41 51 Jahnavi Sindhu and Vikram Aditya Narayan, “Equality under the Indian Constitution: Moving away from Reasonable Classification” (November 29, 2022). 52 Sandra Fredman, “Substantive Equality Revisited”, I.CON (2016), Vol. 14 No. 3, 712-738. 53 For short, “Canadian Charter”. 54 Section 15 – (1) Every individual is equal before and under the law and has the right to the equal protection and equal benefit of the law without discrimination and, in particular, without discrimination based on race, national or ethnic origin, colour, religion, sex, age or mental or physical disability. 1412 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports equality.55 To begin, in 1989, the Supreme Court of Canada, in Andrews v. Law Society of British Columbia,56 interpreted Section 15(1) of the Canadian Charter to include both direct and indirect discrimination. Subsequently, in Law v. Canada (Minister of Employment and Immigration),57 a three-fold test was laid down.58 This included identifying a comparator group of individuals in similar circumstances and determining whether the law’s disadvantage constituted an impairment of human dignity. The Supreme Court of Canada later modified the test in R. v. Kapp,59 reframing the doctrine of substantive equality and held that it should prevail over formal equality. The court noted that the human dignity aspect, included in the third part of the Law v. Canada (supra) test, had not achieved the intended philosophical enhancement. However, human dignity remains a fundamental value underlying the principle of equality. 62. In the context of Section 15, which is divided into subsections (1) and (2)—the latter addressing reverse discrimination and ameliorative measures—the inquiry for classification under Kapp (supra) requires the government to demonstrate that a program has an ameliorative and remedial purpose and specifically targets a disadvantaged group identified by enumerated or analogous grounds. The test was further refined in Withler v. Canada (Attorney (2) Subsection (1) does not preclude any law, program or activity that has as its object the amelioration of conditions of disadvantaged individuals or groups including those that are disadvantaged because of race, national or ethnic origin, colour, religion, sex or mental or physical disability. 55 A literal reading of the Constitution of India shows that our founders envisaged a progressive and substantive framework of equal protection of laws. See Article 14, read with Articles 15, 16, 17, and 18 of the Constitution of India.