14 for being temporally unreasonable – Efflux of time has brought 970 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports to light the element of manifest arbitrariness in the scheme of s.6A(3) which fails to provide a temporal limit to its applicability. [Paras 15, 208, 210] Constitution of India – Art. 14 – Manifest Arbitrariness – Relation between Art. 14 and arbitrariness – Constituents of manifest arbitrariness – Facets of the test of manifest arbitrariness – Extent of review under manifest arbitrariness – Elucidated. (per Surya Kant, J.) (for himself and for M.M. Sundresh and Manoj Misra, JJ.) [Paras 206-226] – (per Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI.) (Concurring) [Para 59] – (per Pardiwala, J.) (Dissenting) [Paras 171, 177, 179, 180] Vagueness in law Citizenship Act 1955 – s.6A – Term ‘ordinarily resident’ in s.6A, if vague – s.6A, if void for being vague : Held: (per Surya Kant, J.) (for himself and for M.M. Sundresh and Manoj Misra, JJ.) Term ‘ordinarily residence’ is not vague enough to be void. [Paras 267-273] Words and phrases – Vagueness in law – Meaning and explanation – Test for void-for-vagueness – Extent of review for the test of ‘void for vagueness’ – Held: (per Surya Kant, J.) (for himself and for M.M. Sundresh and Manoj Misra, JJ.) Vagueness is an inherent feature of language – Same intention can be expressed with a variety of words and expressions, and any given choice of words can relate to multiple different intentions – This problem is particularly exacerbated with vague terms – Most standards in law have some degree of open texture, and inevitably harbor some vagueness or multiple meanings – Vagueness in law, however, exists on a spectrum, and different scenarios necessitate different degrees of tolerance towards vagueness – Excessive vagueness in law can make the statute overbroad and might make the exercise of discretion a capricious exercise – At the same time, it might sometimes be desirable in the interest of justice to retain some open texture in statutes, to cover future eventualities that the legislature might not have anticipated but intended to address based on the overarching purpose of the law – In that sense, the sliding scale of vagueness in law determines whether the law is just and inclusive, or unjust and capricious – Vagueness needs to be viewed from the perspective of the authorities applying the [2024] 10 S.C.R. 971 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 impugned law; and the persons being regulated by the impugned law – Statute or its provision can be struck down for vagueness – Ordinarily, courts should endeavour to draw a demarcating line and infer some reasonable meaning from an impugned provision, rather than hastening to intervene and striking down the entire provision on the grounds of vagueness. [Paras 249, 251, 255, 263, 264] Citizenship Act, 1955 – s.6A – Phrase ‘ordinary resident in Assam’ under – Meaning – Discussed. (per Surya Kant, J.) (for himself and for M.M. Sundresh and Manoj Misra, JJ.)