It went on to explain the precautionary principle in the following terms: “i. Environmental measures - by the State Government and the statutory authorities - must anticipate, prevent, and attack the causes of environmental degradation. 35 [1996] Supp. 5 SCR 241 : (1996) 5 SCC 647 [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1929 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. ii. Where there are threats of serious and irreversible damage, lack of scientific certainty should not be used as a reason for postponing measures to prevent environmental degradation. iii. The “onus of proof” is on the actor or the developer/ industrialist to show that his action is environmentally benign.” 30.1. This principle over the years, has been developed further and recognised as an integral part of the Indian Constitution. Recently, in Hospitality Association of Mudumalai v. In Defence of Environment & Animals (3-Judge Bench),36 this Court reiterated that the precautionary principle forms part of the Constitution of India under Articles 21, 47, 48 and 51-A(g). The requirement placed on the Government under the precautionary principle to “anticipate, prevent and attack the causes of environmental degradation” was emphatically reiterated. 30.2. This Court has clarified that a precautionary approach, is not one which is opposed to development. In N.D. Jayal (Supra) while relying on Vellore Citizens’ Welfare Forum (Supra) and M.C. Mehta v. Union of India (3-Judge Bench),37 emphasis was laid on sustainable development. This Court observed that the balance between environmental protection and developmental activities could only be maintained by strictly following the principle of “sustainable development”. This is a development strategy that caters to the needs of the present without negotiating the ability of upcoming generations to satisfy their needs. The strict observance of sustainable development will put us on a path that ensures development while protecting the environment, a path that works for all people and for all generations. It is a guarantee to the present and a bequeath to the future. All environment-related developmental activities should benefit more people while maintaining the environmental 36 [2020] 10 SCR 273 : (2020) 10 SCC 589 37 [2003] Supp. 3 SCR 925 : (2002) 4 SCC 356 1930 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports balance. This could be ensured only by strict adherence to sustainable development without which the life of the coming generations will be in jeopardy. Further it was opined that: “24. The right to development cannot be treated as a mere right to economic betterment or cannot be limited as a misnomer to simple construction activities. The right to development encompasses much more than economic well-being, and includes within its definition the guarantee of fundamental human rights. The “development” is not related only to the growth of GNP. In the classic work, Development As Freedom, the Nobel prize winner Amartya Sen pointed out that “the issue of development cannot be separated from the conceptual framework of human right”. This idea is also part of the UN Declaration on the Right to Development. The right to development includes the whole spectrum of civil, cultural, economic, political and social process, for the improvement of peoples’ well-being and realization of their full potential.