Another aspect that needs to be taken into consideration is that clause 31 of the Schedule of the Standing , which is reproduced herein above specifically provides that nothing contained in the Standing shall operate in derogation of any law for the time being in force or cause prejudice to any right under contract of service, custom or usage or an agreement, settlement or award applicable to the establishment. It can thus be seen that nothing contained in the Standing s can operate in derogation or to the prejudice of the provisions as provided in the contract of service. 15. In this view of the matter, we find that the Division Bench has erred in allowing the writ petition of the respondents, thereby holding the transfers to be illegal. Similarly, the learned Division Bench also erred in dismissing the writ petition filed by the appellants herein, which was filed challenging the award dated 28.02.2006. It is to be noted that the said award was totally contrary to the earlier award passed by the very same Tribunal on 30.05.2001. 16. For the aforesaid reasons, we find that the impugned and is not sustainable. However, we clarify that we have not considered the larger issue with regard to power of modification of the standing and leave it open to be adjudicated in an appropriate proceeding. We find that the learned Division Bench was in error in calling the writ petitions filed by the appellant as well as the respondent(s) and deciding them without even discussing the reasonings as were adopted by the learned Tribunal. It is to be noted that, in the first dated 30.05.2002, the learned Industrial Tribunal apart from holding that in view of Clause 20 and in terms of appointment and confirmation s, the challenge to the transfer s was not sustainable, also after discussing the entire material on record, found that the transfers were not mala fide. 17. The award dated 28.02.2006 only considers that Clause 20 stood modified on 30.09.1999 and as such the transfer s were not permissible. However, the award passed in 2006 fails to take into consideration that on 03.03.2001, the appeal against the modification was partly allowed by the learned Industrial Tribunal setting aside the dated 30.09.1999. 18. It will be relevant to refer to Section 7 of the said Act. It reads thus: “7. Date of operation of standing s.- Standing s shall, unless an appeal is preferred under Section [2024] 3 S.C.R. 969 M/s. Divgi Metal Wares Ltd. v. M/s. Divgi Metal Wares Employees Association & Anr. 6, come into operation on the expiry of thirty days from the date on which authenticated copies thereof are sent under sub-section (3) of Section 5, or where an appeal as aforesaid is preferred, on the expiry of seven days from the date on which copies of the of the appellate authority are sent under sub-section (2) of Section 6” 19. It could thus be seen that, in view of the provisions of Section 7, the Standing s shall come into operation on the expiry of 30 days from the date on which the authenticated copies thereof are sent under sub-section (3) or Section 5.