Such payment is called “royalty”. It may, however, be that the mine is not worked properly so as not to yield enough return to the lessor in the shape of royalty. In to ensure for the lessor a regular income, regardless of whether the mine is worked or not, a fixed amount is provided to be paid to him by the lessee. This is called “dead rent”. “Dead rent” is calculated on the basis of the area leased while royalty is calculated on the quantity of minerals extracted or removed. Thus, while dead rent is a fixed return to the lessor, royalty is a return which varies with the quantity of minerals extracted or removed. Since dead rent and royalty are both a return to the lessor in respect of the area leased, looked at from one point of view dead rent can be described as the minimum guaranteed amount of royalty payable to the lessor but calculated on the basis of the area leased and not on the quantity of minerals extracted or removed.’ In H.R.S. Murthy v. Collector [H.R.S. Murthy v. Collector, AIR 1965 SC 177 : (1964) 6 SCR 666] too the Constitution Bench of this Court had defined “royalty” to mean ‘the payment made for the materials or minerals won from the land’. 61. The judicial opinion as prevailing amongst the High Courts may be noticed. A Full Bench of the High Court of Orissa held in Laxmi Narayan Agarwalla v. State of Orissa [Laxmi Narayan Agarwalla v. State of Orissa, 1983 SCC OnLine Ori 16 : AIR 1983 Ori 210 : (1983) 55 CLT 362] , SCC OnLine Ori para 12 : AIR at p. 224, para 12 ‘[R]oyalty is the payment made for the minerals extracted. It is not tax.’ In Surajdin v. State of M.P. [Surajdin v. State of M.P., 1959 SCC OnLine MP 19 : AIR 1960 MP 129 : 1960 MPLJ 39] a Division Bench of the High Court of Madhya Pradesh referred to Wharton’s Law Lexicon and Mozley & Whiteley’s Law Dictionary and said (at AIR p. 130, para 7) ‘royalties are payments which the Government may demand for the appropriation of minerals, timber or other property belonging to the Government’. The High Court opined that there are two important features of royalty : (i) the payment is in proportion to the quantity removed; and (ii) the basis of the payment is an agreement. *** 71. We have clearly pointed out the said error, as we are fully convinced in that regard and feel ourselves obliged constitutionally, legally and morally to do so, lest the said error should cause any further harm to the trend of jurisprudential thought centring around the meaning of “royalty”. We hold that royalty is not tax. Royalty is paid to the owner of land who may be a private person and may not necessarily be a State. A private person owning the land is entitled to charge royalty but not tax. The lessor receives royalty as his income and for the lessee the royalty paid is an expenditure incurred.