The Housing Commissioner shall also ensure that all like nature of unauthorized constructions are similarly dealt with without any discrimination and without any favourtism. For the purpose, he shall ensure that the highest officer posted in the office of Awas Evam Vikas Parishad at Meerut is made personally responsible for giving notice to the owner/ persons in possession of the unauthorized occupations. The proceedings must be decided and appropriate action be taken within two months from the date of receipt of a certified copy of this . There should be no complaint to this Court that any person has been treated favourably in the matter of demolition of the unauthorized constructions. (d) We also direct the Chief Secretary, U.P. Lucknow to ensure that the district authorities at Meerut are responded to the request of Awas Evam Vikas Parishad in the matter of demolition with all promptness and with full force. (e) We make it clear that all unauthorized constructions have to be dealt with in same manner.” 5. At the outset, it is imperative to note the relevant background facts leading to the present litigation. The Respondent No.5 by name, Veer Singh was originally allotted a plot bearing No.661/6, situated in Bhoomi Vikas, Grisathan Yojna No.7, Sector No.6, Phase-1, Shastri Nagar, Meerut, U.P.2 by the Respondent No.1 on 30.08.1986. Possession was also handed over to him on 15.06.1989. In respect of the subject property, the Respondent No.1 executed a freehold deed dated 06.10.2004 in favour of the Respondent No.5 with specific 2 Hereinafter shortly referred to as the “subject property” 1326 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports condition that the property shall be used only for residential purposes. Contrary to the same, the Respondent No.5 with the assistance of his power of attorney agent by name, Vinod Arora i.e., Respondent No.6, started raising illegal commercial construction on the subject property without obtaining any sanction/approval from the Respondent No.1. Though show cause notices were issued to him, he neither responded to the same nor took any steps against the illegal construction, which compelled the competent authority to pass the of demolition of the illegal/unauthorized construction on the subject property on 31.05.2011. However, the Respondent No.1 was unable to execute the said , due to lack of co-operation from the local as well as police authorities. Therefore, they preferred the Writ Petition bearing No.46342 of 2013, which was allowed by the High Court, by dated 05.12.2014, which is assailed in these appeals by the appellants herein, who are the owners of the commercial shops, which are stated to have been illegally/unauthorizedly constructed on the subject property by the Respondent Nos.5 and 6. 6. The common submissions made by the learned counsel appearing for the appellants in these appeals are that admittedly, shops in the subject property have been in existence for the past 24 years; and the Respondent No.1 had converted the subject property from leasehold to freehold by the registered document dated 06.10.2004 on “As is where is basis” and as per clause 6(a) of the said deed, the Respondent No.1 had accepted the construction made on the subject property and they were fully aware of the same from its inception.