10 Unamended Section 182(3) of the Companies Act, 2013. 11 For short, “RBI”. 12 For short, “Bonds”. [2024] 2 S.C.R. 569 Association for Democratic Reforms & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. Provided further that no such Provided that no such contribution contribution shall be made by acompany shall be made by a company unless unless a resolution authorising the a resolution authorising the making of making of such contribution is passed such contribution is passed at a meeting at a meeting of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors and such and such resolution shall, subject to resolution shall, subject to the other the other provisions of this section, provisions of this section, be deemed be deemed to be justification in law to be justification in law for the making for the making and the acceptance of of the contribution authorised by it. the contribution authorised by it. 182 (3) Every company shall disclose 182 (3) Every company shall disclose in its profit and loss account any in its profit and loss account the total amount or amounts contributed amount contributed by it under this by it to any political party during the section during the financial year to financial year to which that account which the account relates. relates, giving particulars of the (3A) Notwithstanding anything total amount contributed and the contained in sub-section (1), the name of the party to which such contribution under this section shall amount has been contributed. not be made except by an account payee cheque drawn ona bank or an account payee bank draft or use of electronic clearing system through a bank account: Provided that a company may make contribution through any instrument, issued pursuant to any scheme notified under any law for the time being in force, for contribution to the political parties. Section 13-A of the Income Tax Act, 1961 Prior to Amendment by the Finance Post Amendment by Section 11 of the Act, 2017 Finance Act, 2017 13-A. Special provision relating to 13-A. Special provision relating to incomes of political parties.— Any incomes of political parties.— Any income of a political party which is income of a political party which is chargeable under the head “Income chargeable under the head “Income from house property” or “Income from house property” or “Income from other sources” or “capital gains from other sources” or “capital gains or’ any income by way of voluntary or any income by way of voluntary contributions received by a political contributions received by a political party from any person shall not be party from any person shall not be included in the total income of the included in the total income of the previous year of such political party: previous year of such political party: [2024] 2 S.C.R. 570 Digital Supreme Court Reports Provided that— Provided that— (a) such political party keeps and (a) such political party keeps and maintains such books of account and maintains such books of account and other documents as would enable the other documents as would enable the Assessing Officer to properly deduce Assessing Officer to properly deduce its income therefrom; its income therefrom; (b) in respect of each such voluntary (b) in respect of each such voluntary contribution in excess of twenty contribution other than contribution thousand rupees, such political party by way of electoral bond in excess of keeps and maintains a record of twenty thousand rupees, such political such contribution and the name and party keeps and maintains a record of address of the person who has made such contribution and the name and such contribution; and address of the person who has made such contribution; (c) the accounts of such political party are audited by an accountant (c) the accounts of such political party as defined in the Explanation below are audited by an accountant as defined sub-section (2) of Section 288: in the Explanation below sub-section (2) of Section 288 and: Provided further that if the Treasurer of such political party or any other person (d) no donation exceeding two authorised by that political party in this thousand rupees is received by such behalf fails to submit a report under political party otherwise than by an sub-section (3) of Section 29-C of account payee cheque drawn on a the Representation of the People Act, bank or an account payee bank draft 1951 (43 of 1951) for a financial year, or use of electronic clearing system no exemption under this section shall through a bank account or through be available for that political party for electoral bond.