16 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 41. It is only in this Court that the State has vehemently defended the . A counter affidavit was filed by the State in this Court in September, 2024 without offering any tenable justification for the need for further investigation. We direct that for all these reasons the additional charges ought not to be taken on the record of the trial Court. 42. A brief postscript. While it is true that delay in trial will cede to the pursuit of truth, however, a distinction should be made between cases where there exist genuine grounds to hold up the proceedings and cases where such grounds do not exist. This case is a classic example of the latter category. The FIR was filed on 31.03.2013 and the charge-sheet on 11.07.2013. At the fag end of the trial in October 2019, on the eve of the final arguments, the first round of applications under Section 311 of Cr.P.C. came to be filed, which culminated in its dismissal in December, 2019. 43. Soon thereafter in January, 2020, virtually the same grounds which had been rejected earlier were rehashed in the form of an application under Section 173(8) Cr.P.C. on behalf of the respondent no. 1. The State, which had hitherto opposed all the applications up to the High Court, turned turtle and stoutly supported the respondent no. 1 in this Court without offering any tenable justification as to how the earlier investigation which had arrayed eight accused for trial lacked credibility. 44. The net result has been that all the stakeholders in the process have contributed to the delay and in spite of eleven years having elapsed after the incident, the trial has still not concluded. No doubt, the High Court allowed the further investigation which we have today reversed. The of the High Court also gave no valid justification for ing a further investigation. 45. The victims of crime, the accused, and the society at large have a legitimate expectation that justice will be available to the parties within a reasonable time. It is beyond cavil that speedy and timely justice is an important facet of rule of law. Denial of speedy and timely justice can be disastrous to rule of law in the long term. Even if the parties involved in a case themselves, with no valid justification attempt to delay the proceedings, the courts need to be vigilant and nip any such attempt in the bud instantly. The administration of justice feeds on the faith of the citizenry and nothing should be done to even remotely shake that faith and confidence. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 17 K. Vadivel v. K. Shanthi & Ors. 46. The legal profession has an important role to play in the process. Any proceeding or application which prima facie lacks merit should not be instituted in a court. We are constrained to observe this because of late we notice that pleadings/petitions with outrageous and ex facie unbelievable averments are made with no inhibition whatsoever.