Case Arising From INHERENT JURISDICTION: Contempt Petition (Civil) Nos. 196-197 of 2024 In Special Leave Petition (Civil) Nos. 12081-12082 of 2023 From the and dated 06.06.2023 of the Supreme Court of India, Delhi in SLP (C) No. 12081-12082 of 2023 With Contempt Petition (Civil) Nos. 198-199 of 2024 in Special Leave Petition (Civil) Nos. 12083-12084 of 2023 416 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Appearances for Parties Aniruddha Joshi, Sr. Adv., Rajeev Maheshwaranand Roy, Advs. for the Petitioner. Nityanand Singh, Ashutosh Kumar Mishra, Ms. Radhika Goel, V. V. Manoharam, Ms. Joohi, Saurabh Upadhyay, Prakash Kumar Singh, Advs. for the Respondent. / of the Supreme Court “Disregarding a Court’s may seem bold, but the shadows of its consequences are long and cold.” 1. Contempt of court is a serious legal infraction that strikes at the very soul of justice and the sanctity of legal proceedings. It goes beyond from mere defiance of a Court’s authority, but also denotes a profound challenge to the principles that underpin the rule of law. At its core, it is a profound disavowal of the respect and adherence to the judicial process, posing a concerning threat to integrity of judicial system. When a party engages in contempt, it does more than simply refusing to comply with a Court’s . By failing to adhere to judicial directives, a contemnor not only disrespects the specific , but also directly questions the Court’s ability to uphold the rule of law. It erodes the public confidence in the judicial system and it’s ability to deliver justice impartially and effectively. Therefore, power to punish for Contempt of Court’s is vital to safeguard the authority and efficiency of the judicial system. By addressing and penalizing contemptuous conduct, the legal system reinforces its own legitimacy and ensures that judicial s and proceedings are taken seriously. This deterrent effect helps to maintain the rule of law and reinforces public’s faith in the judicial process, ensuring that Courts can function effectively without undue interference or disrespect. 2. Contempt powers are integral to maintaining the sanctity of judicial proceedings. The ability to address contempt ensures that the authority of the court is respected and that the administration of justice is not hampered by willful disobedience. In the said context, the power of this Court to punish for contempt is a cornerstone of its authority, integral to the administration of justice and the maintenance [2024] 9 S.C.R. 417 M/s Sitaram Enterprises v. Prithviraj Vardichand Jain of its own dignity. Enshrined in Article 129 of the Constitution of India, this power is essential for upholding the rule of law and ensuring due compliance by addressing actions that undermine its authority, obstruct its proceedings, or diminish the public trust and confidence in the judicial system. 3. The Courts ordinarily take lenient approach in a case of some delay in compliance of the s, unless the same is deliberate and willful, on confronting the conduct of the contemnor that strikes the very heart of judicial authority. Undoubtedly, this appalling breach of legal decorum has in its face challenged the sanctity of the s passed by this Court and hence we are constrained to examine Contemnor/ tenant’s willful and deliberate act of non-compliance of the and also the undertaking furnished by him as directed.