[2024] 6 S.C.R. 1 : 2024 INSC 360 Ram Balak Singh v. State of Bihar and Anr. (Civil Appeal No. 1627 of 2016) 01 May 2024 [Pankaj Mithal* and Prasanna Bhalachandra Varale, JJ.] Issue for Consideration In view of the bar imposed u/s. 37 of the Bihar Consolidation of Upholdings and Prevention of Fragmentation Act, 1956, the of the Consolidation Authority confirming the title of the appellant over the suit land and directing for recording his name in the record of rights, liable to be reversed or ignored by the Civil Court. Headnotes Bihar Consolidation of Upholdings and Prevention of Fragmentation Act, 1956 – s. 37 – Bar of jurisdiction of Civil Court – of the Consolidation Authority confirming the title of the appellant over the suit land, liable to be reversed or ignored by the Civil Court – On facts, recognition of appellant’s rights over the suit land by the consolidation authorities, however, subsequently, the State started interfering with the possession of the appellant – Suit filed by the appellant for declaring his title over the suit land and to confirm his possession over it – Decreed in his favour by the trial court, however, the appellate courts discarded the of the Consolidation Officer and dismissed the suit – Correctness: Held: Revenue entries are not documents of title and do not ordinarily confer or extinguish title in the land but, nonetheless, where the revenue authorities or the consolidation authorities are competent to determine the rights of the parties by exercising powers akin to the Civil Courts, any or entry made by such authorities which attains finality has to be respected and given effect to – Consolidation Officer referring to the patta by which the said land was settled in favour of the appellant’s father and the adoption deed directed the name of the appellant to be recorded in the record of rights – Rights of the parties over the suit land stood crystalised with the passing of the by the * Author 2 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Consolidation Officer which became final and conclusive – State never challenged the same – When the rights of the appellant have been determined and recognised by the consolidation authorities, the of the Consolidation Officer to that effect in favour of the appellant could not have been ignored by the Civil Court – Jurisdiction of the Civil Court in respect of the rights determined by the Consolidation Officer stands impliedly excluded by the very scheme of the Consolidation Act – Appellate courts below erred in holding otherwise discarding the of the Consolidation Officer which was sacrosanct as to the rights in respect to the suit land – Civil suit for declaration of rights in respect of land where the Consolidation Court has already passed an recognizing the rights of one of the parties is not barred by s. 37, as it does not propose to challenge any passed by the Consolidation Court under the Act and that the Civil Court is not competent to either ignore or reverse the passed by the Consolidation Officer once it has attained finality – Thus, the impugned and s of the appellate courts set aside and that of the trial court is restored.