1344, 2115, 8131, 12170 and 13975-13976 of 2024 Appearances for Parties Nakul Dewan, Gopal Jain, Siddharth Bhatnagar, Neeraj Kishan Kaul, Shyam Divan, Harin P. Raval, Sr. Advs., Nirav Shah, Soumya Ray Chowdhury, Bhushan Panse, Satyender Saharan, Sathvik Chandrashekar, Ms. Udita Singh, Raunak Dhillon, Ms. Madhavi Khanna, Ms. Isha Malik, Ms. Niharika Shukla, M/s. Cyril Amarchand Mangaldas, Samrat Sengupta, Udayaditya Banerjee, Soumya Dutta, Parag Chaturvedi, Rajat Joseph, Ms. Deeplaxmi Subhash Matwankar, Dr. Ravindra Chingale, Ms. Preetika Dwivedi, Karthik Nayar, Abhisek Mohanty, Sanjay Baid, Arindam Ghosh, Swarnendu Chatterjee, Nilay Sengupta, Sujit Banerjee, Ankit Agarwal, Ms. Deepakshi Garg, Mrs. Vanita Bhargava, Ajay Bhargava, Ms. Wamika Trehan, Ms. Raddhika Khanna Tandon, M/s. Khaitan & Co., Umesh Kumar Khaitan, Deepak Khurana, Ms. Manali Singhal, Ms. Nishtha Wadhwa, Santosh Sachin, Ms. Shreya Singhal, Deepak Rawat, Milind Kumar, Vikas Mehta, Apoorv Khator, Ashish Batra, Sebin Michael Joseph, Ms. Madhumita Bhattacharjee, Ms. Srija Choudhury, Anant, Ms. Sajal Bhardwaj, Ms. Aanchal Basur, Ivan, Advs. for the appearing parties. / of the Supreme Court Sanjiv Khanna, J. Leave granted. 2. This common decides whether an application for extension of time under Section 29A of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, [2024] 9 S.C.R. 477 Rohan Builders (India) Private Limited v. Berger Paints India Limited 19961 can be filed after the expiry of the period for making of the arbitral award. The High Court at Calcutta in Rohan Builders (India) Pvt. Ltd. v. Berger Paints India Limited 2 has held that the application for extension of time under Sections 29A(4) and 29A(5) of the A & C Act can only be entertained if filed before the expiry of the mandate of the arbitral tribunal. The High Court at Calcutta held that once the mandate of the arbitral tribunal is terminated by afflux of time of twelve months, or when so consented to by the parties after a further six-month extension, the power of the court to extend time under Section 29A(4) cannot be invoked. A similar view has been taken by a Division Bench of the High Court of Judicature at Patna in South Bihar Power Distribution Company Limited v. Bhagalpur Electricity Distribution Company Private Limited.3 However, a catena of s from other High Courts have taken an opposite view. The High Court of Delhi in ATC Telecom Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. v. Bharat Sanchar Nigam Ltd.,4 Wadia Techno-Engineering Services Limited v. Director General of Married Accommodation Project and Another,5 and some other cases;6 the High Court of Judicature at Bombay in Nikhil H. Malkan and Others v. Standard Chartered Investment and Loans (India) Limited;7 the High Court of Kerala in Hiran Valiiyakkil Lal and Others v. Vineeth M.V. and Others;8 the High Court of Madras in G.N.Pandian v. S. Vasudevan and Others;9 and the High Court of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh in H.P.Singh v. G.M. Northern Railways and Others,10 have held that an application for extension of time limit for arbitral award can be filed by a party even after the expiry of the term of twelve months or the extended period of six months.