The apprehension of the petitioner therein was that plurality of proper officers empowered under Section 28 would result in more than one show cause notice and a consequent misuse of the provision, which would be detrimental to the interests of the persons chargeable with the payment of duty. Although, Mangali Impex (supra) declared Section 28(11) to be invalid on this ground, it suggested that the Board should issue instructions in its administrative capacity that once a show cause notice is issued specifying an adjudicating authority 316 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports subject to such an officer being the proper officer for the purposes of Section 28, then he or she alone should proceed to adjudicate that particular show cause notice to the exclusion of all other officers who may have power in relation to that subject matter. We find this to be a reasonable construal of the import and application of Section 28(11). 152. It is a settled position of law that the possibility of misuse or abuse of a law which is otherwise valid cannot be a ground for invalidating it. This principle of law has been expounded by this Court in the case of Shreya Singhal v. Union of India reported in (2015) 5 SCC 1. The relevant portion of the is reproduced below: “In The Collector of Customs, Madras v. Nathella Sampathu Chetty & Anr., [1962] 3 S.C.R. 786, this Court observed: “....This Court has held in numerous rulings, to which it is unnecessary to refer, that the possibility of the abuse of the powers under the provisions contained in any statute is no ground for declaring the provision to be unreasonable or void. Commenting on a passage in the of the Court of Appeal of Northern Ireland which stated: “If such powers are capable of being exercised reasonably it is impossible to say that they may not also be exercised unreasonably” and treating this as a ground for holding the statute invalid Viscount Simonds observed in Belfast Corporation v. O.D. Commission [ 1960 AC 490 at pp. 520-521] : “It appears to me that the short answer to this contention (and I hope its shortness will not be regarded as disrespect) is that the validity of a measure is not to be determined by its application to particular cases.... If it is not so exercised (i.e. if the powers are abused) it is open to challenge and there is no need for express provision for its challenge in the statute.” The possibility of abuse of a statute otherwise valid does not impart to it any element of invalidity. The converse must also follow that a statute which is otherwise invalid as being unreasonable cannot be saved by its being administered in a reasonable manner. The constitutional validity of [2024] 12 S.C.R. 317 Commissioner of Customs v. M/s Canon India Pvt. Ltd. the statute would have to be determined on the basis of its provisions and on the ambit of its operation as reasonably construed.