He fairly submitted that there is no system of adoption of child in Mohammaden law. It is only Kafalah, in terms of which only custody can be given to another person, however, the child does not sever relations with biological parents. 6.4 Learned counsel for the appellants on instructions categorically stated that appellant No. 1 and respondent No. 10 have two more children. The child, of which they have the custody ever since her birth will have equal rights along with two other children. She will not be discriminated in any manner whatsoever. 6.5 Further raising the issue regarding the conduct of respondent No. 2, he submitted that firstly a petition for Habeas Corpus was filed by the wife of respondent No. 2 before the High Court of Judicature at Patna five years after the child had been living with appellant No. 1 and respondent No. 10. The same was dismissed as withdrawn. Four years thereafter, similar petition was filed by respondent No. 2 before the High Court of Orissa. Time gap shows that the respondent No. 2 is not interested in custody of the child. 6.6 He further submitted that to show their bonafide, appellant No. 1 and respondent No. 10 are ready and willing to deposit a sum of ₹ 10,00,000/- in FDR in bank in her name and also transfer property having market value of about ₹ 50,00,000/-. At present, the child is grown up. She is 14 years of age. She is capable of forming an opinion about her best interest. The welfare of the child is of paramount consideration and not the rights of the parties. Stability is most important factor as any passed by this Court may dislodge the child from the family where she is settled for the last 14 years. Her transplantation at this stage may not be in her best interest. It is the welfare 7 Guardianship Case No. 23 of 2016 before the Court of Principal Judge, Family Court, Patna [2024] 3 S.C.R. 15 Shazia Aman Khan and Another v. The State of Orissa and Others of the child and not the personal law or the statute which has paramount consideration, when the parties are fighting. In support of his argument that it is only the best interest of the child which is to be considered in such matters and also the difference between custody and guardianship, reliance was placed upon the of this Court in Athar Hussain v. Syed Siraj Ahmed and others8. 7. In response, learned counsel for respondent No. 2 submitted that it is not the case of abandonment of a child, as is sought to be projected by the appellants now. No parents will ever think of that, what to talk of actually doing it. The child was left with her maternal grand mother and thereafter handed over to appellant No.2 for her initial upbringing when she was 3-4 months old. She further submitted that when repeated requests for returning back the child were not acceded to, respondent No.