The Sub-Committee on Fundamental Rights debated two issues related to the above clause. First, whether the word “minority” or “class” must be used to signify the beneficiaries. The debates indicate that the phrase “class” was preferred over “minority” because the latter has a specific connotation, that is, religious or political minorities and this would exclude classes who constitute the majority but are yet not adequately represented. The reason is best explained by Dr Ambedkar in the Annexure to the Memorandum and Draft Articles on the Rights of States and Minorities, where he noted that “to make religious affiliation the determining factor for constitutional safeguards is to overlook the fact that religious affiliation may be accompanied by an intense degree of social separation and discrimination”.222 162. The second issue was whether the provision must be qualified with the phrase “adequately represented”. A few members expressed the fear that the use of the phrase “adequate representation” would become litigious.223 In spite of this apprehension, the phrase was retained to restrict the discretion of the State since the phrase “class” and not “minority” was adopted. Without the phase “adequate representation”, the clause would have also included reservations 221 Ibid, 258-259; KM Panikkar: “I was responsible for the change from the word ‘minorities’. The reason which I gave was that minorities in India have come to have a specific meaning, that is to say, religious or political minorities, Muslims, Sikhs etc. 222 Shiva Rao, supra, 109 223 BR Ambedkar: “I am omitting the words “not adequately represented”. If we have the words “not adequately represented”, any reservation made by the State may be open to be challenged in a court. The court may say that reservation is made for a class although it is adequately represented.” [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1423 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. for adequately represented majorities for whom the benefit was not intended. However, with the inclusion of the phrase “adequately represented” qualifying the phrase “classes”, the benefit of the provision extends to classes which may be considered ‘majorities’ but are yet inadequately represented.224 163. The debates in the Sub-Committee on Fundamental Rights and Sub-Committee on Minorities indicate that the beneficiaries of reservation are classes that are not “adequately represented” and this could include classes which are numerical majorities. Provisions for reservation are now available not only to the members of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes but also of the socially and educationally backward classes which are numerical religious majorities. The phrase “backward” preceding “class” was absent in the draft circulated by the Sub-Committee. The phrase was included in Article 10 of the Draft Constitution. The inclusion of the phrase backward along with the qualifier of adequate representation clarifies the scope of the beneficiary class. 164. Dr B R Ambedkar stated in the Constituent Assembly that reservations under Article 10 of the Draft Constitution [Article 16 of the Constitution of India] are given to those who have not had a “proper look-in” to the administration because it has historically been controlled by a few communities.225 Referring to the above observations of Dr Ambedkar, Justice Jeevan Reddy held in Indra Sawhney (supra) that the objective of Article 16(4) is to ensure that the backward classes get the opportunity to share state power.226 165.