6. In this vein, the High Court allowed the appeals preferred by the Respondent State while dismissing those filed by the Appellants. The High Court held that the Reference Court had incorrectly estimated the market value and enhanced the compensation as it ignored various sale instances of comparable parcels of land that had been produced by the Respondents. Additionally, the High Court also doubted the reliability of Ex. P76, which was the basis of the Reference Court’s decision, on the ground that this sale deed belonged to a commercial plot of land and was post the notification issued under Section 4 of the 1894 Act. Accordingly, the High Court set aside the award(s) of the Reference Court and reverted the compensation amount to that initially granted by the LAC. Hence, these appeals. B. contentions oF the pArties 7. We have heard Learned Senior Counsel for the parties at a considerable length and meticulously perused the documents submitted on record. 8. S/Shri Narender Hooda, Sunil Dalal and Gagan Gupta, Learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the Appellants, first demonstrated the potentiality of the acquired land. They contended that the High Court had overlooked the fact that the acquired lands fell squarely within the municipal limits of Tauru city and were surrounded by civic amenities such as a Bus Stand, Hospital, School, College, a Power Station and Industrial as well as Residential establishments. They further asserted that the acquired land was located on the Sohna-Tauru bypass and was in close proximity to the Gurgaon- National Capital Region, as also the Industrial Township established at Bhiwadi, Rajasthan. Additionally, the land is situated between the Sohna—Rewari metal road on one side and the KMP Highway on the other. This strategic location, they argued, indicated that the [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1715 Horrmal (Deceased) Through His LRs & Ors. v. State of Haryana & Ors. market value of the acquired land, having immense potential at the time of acquisition, could not have been valued at less than Rupees 5,00,00,000/- per acre. 9. It was contended that the sale exemplars, particularly Ex. RW1/D and RW1/F, which have been relied upon by the LAC and the High Court while assessing the rate of compensation at Rupees 45,00,000/- per acre, appertained to the smaller pieces of land and were inferior in nature, as the sale consideration mentioned therein was lower than the rate estimated by the LAC itself. Instead, they urged that Ex. P76 and Ex. P3 ought to have been relied upon, owing to their similarity and proximity to the acquired land, as well as their temporal proximity to the date of issuance of the Section 4 notification. They further emphasised that these sale exemplars are the best sale instances to be considered since Ex. P76 was registered only a few months after the Section 4 notification, whereas Ex. P3 was executed prior to the said notification. 10. Given what had been adduced, Learned Senior Counsels relied on a plethora of decisions in support of their arguments, including the of this Court in Dollar Co. v. Collector of Madras,1 wherein it was held that a sale deed of a recent date could be considered the best evidence.