After the State of Himachal Pradesh was formed, the school received grant-in-aid from the Government of Himachal Pradesh for the period between 1967 and 1976. From the year 1977-1978, the Government of Himachal Pradesh stopped the grant-in-aid. In such circumstances, the teachers of the school were paid less than the teachers of the Government schools and the Government-aided schools in the State of Himachal Pradesh. This led to filing of a writ petition in the High Court of Himachal Pradesh [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2209 Army Welfare Education Society New Delhi v. Sunil Kumar Sharma & Ors. Etc. seeking a direction to pay the salary and allowances at par with the teachers of Government schools and the Government-aided schools. A learned single Judge of the High Court allowed the writ petition and directed the respondents therein to pay to the writ petitioners therein salary and allowances at par with their counterparts working in the Government schools from the dates they were entitled to and at the rates admissible from time to time. The respondent Nos. 1 and 2 therein preferred letters patent appeal before the Division Bench of the High Court. The appeal came to be allowed and the writ petition filed by the teachers was dismissed. In such circumstances referred to above, the litigation travelled to this Court. This Court, while disposing of the appeal, held as under:- “25. Where a statutory provision casts a duty on a private unaided school to pay the same salary and allowances to its teachers as are being paid to teachers of government- aided schools, then a writ of mandamus to the school could be issued to enforce such statutory duty. But in the present case, there was no statutory provision requiring a private unaided school to pay to its teachers the same salary and allowances as were payable to teachers of government schools and therefore a mandamus could not be issued to pay to the teachers of private recognised unaided schools the same salary and allowances as were payable to teachers of government institutions. 26. In K. Krishnamacharyulu v. Sri Venkateswara Hindu College of Engg. (1997) 3 SCC 571 : 1997 SCC (L&S) 841, relied upon by the learned counsel for the appellants, executive instructions were issued by the Government that the scales of pay of Laboratory Assistants as non-teaching staff of private colleges shall be on a par with the government employees and this Court held that even though there were no statutory rules, the Laboratory Assistants as non-teaching staff of private college were entitled to the parity of the pay scales as per the executive instructions of the Government and the writ jurisdiction of the High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution is wide enough to issue a writ for payment of pay on a par with government employees. In the present case, there are no executive instructions issued by the Government requiring 2210 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports private schools to pay the same salary and allowances to their teachers as are being paid to teachers of government schools or government-aided schools.