The agreements do not fix a time for the performance of the contract. Thus, the second part of Article 54 of the schedule to the Limitation Act applies. The limitation begins from the date of refusal of performance. The suit was filed on 30 July 2002, which is within three months of 14 April 2000 (the date when the respondents’ responded to the first legal notice). Even if the first legal notice issued by the petitioner was ante-dated, it would not affect the merits of the issue since limitation ought to be calculated from the date of refusal. Further, the conclusion that the petitioner did not file a suit immediately after the issuance of the second legal notice is erroneous. The second legal notice was issued on 6 July 2002. The suit was filed on 30 July 2002. The suit was numbered on 9 August 2002; b. It cannot be concluded that possession was not delivered merely because there was no mention of it in the sale agreements or the first legal notice. The finding of the Trial Court on the aspect of possession and that the petitioner made a false plea in this regard is erroneous. Even otherwise,the issue of whether the 678 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports petitioner has possession of the suit property is immaterial for the relief of specific performance. The delivery of possession is inherent and ancillary to the relief of specific performance under Section 55 of the Transfer of Property Act 1882. (Relied on Babulal v. Hajarilal Kishorilal3); c. The respondents received a substantial amount of the sale consideration of Rs. 38,80,850 out of the total sale consideration of Rs. 40,20,000. The respondents failed to provide the certificates. The first respondent admitted that she received the amount in her cross-examination though she had denied the same earlier in her written statement and chief examination. The sale deed could not be executed because of the fault of the respondents. It cannot be concluded that the petitioner did not approach the respondents for the payment of the balance consideration merely because he could not depose the particulars of when he approached them. Further, though the first and the second respondents pleaded that they had obtained the necessary documentation as required by Clause 3 of the sale agreement in both the written statement and evidence, this version was denied during the cross-examination of DW-1 and DW-2 (husband of DW-1). The Trial Court concluded that the respondents were not ready with the certifications. This finding was not assailed by the counsel for the respondents; d. The petitioner would not benefit from not performing the remainder of the contract when he already paid 90 percent of the sale consideration. The petitioner filed an Interlocutory Application to deposit the balance sale consideration of Rs. 5,39,150 which was allowed. The petitioner has shown bona fides by depositing the balance consideration. Thus, the oral evidence of the petitioner (PW-1) that he approached the respondents to fulfil the contract cannot be disbelieved.