1887 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. decision will be held to have been validly made if the degree of control maintained by the authority is close enough for the decision to be regarded as the authority’s own; (iii) Even in cases of sub-delegation, so long as the essential function of decision-making is performed by the delegate, the burden of performing the ancillary and clerical task need not be shouldered by the primary delegate and it is not necessary that the primary delegate himself should perform the ministerial acts as well; and (iv) Practical necessities or exigencies of administration require that the decision-making authority who has been conferred with statutory power, be able to delegate tasks when the situation so requires.” (Emphasis supplied) 25 (a) 23. Therefore, in view of the above conspectus, the decision of the GEAC cannot be said to be vitiated by delegation. 25 (b) 1. Another challenge that has been laid by the Petitioners to the impugned decision, is non-application of mind. In my considered view, this submission does not stand. 25 (b) 2. The expert committee appointed in the 146th meeting of the GEAC dated 25.08.2022, submitted its report and a reading of the same would show that a barnase/barstar proteins introduced in GE Mustard are not novel to honeybees and thus they do not discriminate between GE and non GE canola, it further relied on data collected from Canada and Australia. Pursuant to which it recommended the environmental release of GE Mustard. The conditional approval granted vide letter dated 08.10.2022 of the MoEFCC shows that the approval so granted was on the basis of multiple documents and not only the comments of the expert committee, as alleged by the Petitioners. Considering the importance of the issue, the potential magnitude of its (the decision of the GEAC’s) impact, it was found prudent by the decision-making authority to call for the comments of the Department of Biotechnology (received on 01.08.2022) and the Department of Agricultural Research and Education (received on 30.07.2022), which are departments under their respective Ministries. It would be apposite to briefly advert to their mission, roles, responsibilities and mandates. 1888 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Department of Biotechnology under the Ministry of Science and Technology: “Mission …The Department shall provide services in the areas of research, infrastructure, generation of human resource, popularization of biotechnology, promotion of industries, creation of centers of excellence, implementation of biosafety guidelines for genetically modified organisms and recombinant DNA products and biotechnology-based programs for societal benefits. Bioinformatics is a major mission to establish an information network for the scientific community, nationally and internationally. Mandate … • Promote large scale use of Biotechnology • Support R&D and manufacturing in Biology … • Serve as Nodal Point for specific International Collaborations • Establishment of Infrastructure Facilities to support R&D and production … • Evolve Bio Safety Guidelines, manufacture and application of cell based vaccines • Serve as nodal point for the collection and dissemination of information relating to biotechnology.” (Emphasis supplied) Department of Agricultural Research and Education under the Ministry of Agriculture “About the Departments … DARE provides the necessary government linkages for the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), [2024] 7 S.C.R.