03.07.2019 until the disposal of the divorce proceedings. It is this which has given rise to the present appeals. 6. We have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties. 7. The Family Court upon perusal of records and evidence on both sides in to fix interim maintenance, found that it is clear that after desertion, the appellant wife had no other place to reside and thus, chose to seek shelter with her mother-in law, who is aged 93 years. Later on, considering the health of the aged mother-in law, the appellant wife started residing with her elder brother. Family Court also observed that the respondent husband failed to produce his income tax returns. However, documents produced by the appellant and evidence of both parties in this regard would clearly reflect the fact that the respondent is a renowned expert in cardiology and has a number of worthful properties and is the only legal heir to his father who has passed away. His mother is running the age of 93. He is accruing all the incomes from the properties owned by his mother and himself and is also found to have been in possession of a school, though it is stated to be running in losses. However, the respondent did not come forward with any proof to this effect. 8. The Family Court also noted that the respondent specifically stated that when the parties were residing together, he engaged two maids on 24×7 basis to aid them in their domestic work and maintenance and the appellant is accustomed to these comforts. The Family Court therefore compared the status, standard of life, income source, properties, its possession, rights and liabilities of the respondent and found that the appellant cannot be denied to enjoy the privileges as enjoyed by the respondent. Upon this consideration, the Family Court 1316 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports found it reasonable to award a sum of Rs.1,75,000/- (Rupees One Lakh and Seventy Five Thousand only) as interim maintenance to be paid to the appellant by the respondent per month from the date of the petition being 03.07.2019 till the disposal of the main divorce petition being OP 1284 of 2019. 9. The High Court, on the other hand, while allowing the appeal of the husband and modifying the of the Trial Court noted that the Hospital in Kerala agreed to pay a sum of Rs.1,25,000/- (Rupees One Lakh and Twenty Five Thousand only) per month as salary to the respondent husband in 2017. Further, the joint venture agreement is of the year 2015 and there is no evidence to suggest that the respondent was still receiving the said amount from the builder and that the sale consideration received by him cannot be treated as ‘monthly income’. The Bank statements on record pertained to a few months in the years 2017, 2018 and 2019 and the High Court stated that those do not assist them in determining the present income of the appellant and did not take those into consideration for the purpose of deciding the quantum of maintenance.