Welfare States impose taxes to generate revenue that enables investment in human capital, infrastructure and services for citizens and businesses. The Tax Law landscape in India has been one of the most dynamic areas of law and has witnessed several changes over the last few decades. The Taxation Systems in India have been periodically assessed and several changes have been brought about from time to time. Such changes have been introduced with a view to either widen the tax base; to simplify and rationalise laws and procedures; to bring about modernization through computerization of tax returns; to enhance efficiency of the tax administration; or to maintain progressivity at such levels as would not induce evasion. [2024] 6 S.C.R. 861 Shaji Poulose v. Institute of Chartered Accountants of India & Others 49.1 In relation to direct taxation, we believe that the taxation system must be one that not only incorporates the normative and prescriptive considerations of neutrality, fairness, certainty, efficiency etc. but one that also promotes the virtuous circle of increased trust between tax payers and the tax administration. We call this a “virtuous circle” because it seeks to achieve a dual purpose: it reinforces voluntary compliance while at the same time promoting good governance. Good governance is achieved in an attempt to secure the confidence of the taxpayer. Once a taxpayer is certain that tax revenue is being channelled in an efficient manner, consistent with the objectives of a welfare state, enhanced tax compliance is likely to follow. It is in this context that we stress on the significance of the role played by Chartered Accountants. They can serve as effective catalysts in securing this circle of trust between the taxpayer and the tax administration. This is because a large proportion of the tax payers in India seek advice of Chartered Accountants to understand the rules of the road. The integrity and standards of Chartered Accountants determine the efficiency in the functioning of the nation’s taxation system. 49.2 There are many concepts and processes in the present taxation regime that rest, almost completely, on the vigilance of Chartered Accountants and auditors. The very concept of self-assessment carries with it the requirement of good faith practices. The most recent tax reforms seek to achieve transparent taxation by “Honouring the Honest taxpayer.” The success of such initiatives depends, to a very large extent, on the vigilance demonstrated by Chartered Accountants. 49.3 Transparency in accounting is imperative to the economy in many ways. For instance, in the absence of accurate financial reporting, it would become difficult for banks to make informed decisions about credit allocation. It is the quality, reliability and objectivity of this information which stakeholders rely upon to make informed s and allocate resources efficiently. The role of transparent accounting is critical in lending credibility to the financial market transactions. Market participants, investors and shareholders look towards this community for accurate information, which ensures market discipline and fosters confidence of various stakeholders. The onus is on 862 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Chartered Accountants to ensure that our Nation’s businesses do indeed conform to high corporate governance standards.