However in respect of any additional training centers in the designated territory for carrying out the Licensed Business, the Franchisee shall be required to obtain such written permissions from the Franchisor from time to time. xxx xxx xxx 3. APPOINTMENT Subject to the terms and conditions of this agreement the Franchisor appoints the franchisee as an independent non-exclusive partner with the right to market and train learners in the territory outlined in Schedule 1. Each party is acting as an independent contractor and not as an agent, partner or joint venture with the other 82 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports party for any purpose. The franchisee shall bear all costs relating to the marketing and promotion of the courses as outlined in Schedule 2. xxx xxx xxx 8. PAYMENTS AND PAYMENT PROCEDURE 8.01 In consideration of the Franchisor agreeing to grant the licence for the licensed business, in favour of the Franchisee for a period as mentioned in Clause 2 above and for the use of the technical Know- how, trade marks, trade names, service marks and logos of the Franchisor in relation to its business of computer education and the association of the Franchisee with the reputation and goodwill of the Franchisor, the Franchisee agrees to pay to the Franchisor a Non refundable sum of US$ 30,000 (US Dollars Thirty Thousand only) as initial lumpsum fees. 8.02 If the Franchisee fails to pay the aforesaid lumpsum fees within the aforesaid period, the Franchisor shall be entitled to terminate this Agreement with immediate effect and shall have the right to forfeit the fees, if any, already paid by the Franchisee. 8.03 Additionally, in consideration of the License and other rights granted, and assistance agreed to be provided hereunder, the Franchisee shall pay to the Franchisor recurring royalty fees as under. I. The recurring royalty payment shall be on the gross collection, to be paid as given below: ● 10% of the gross collections received in the 1st Year. ● 10% of the gross collections received in the 2nd year. ● 12.5% of the gross collections received in the 3rd Year. ● 15% of the gross collections received in the 4th year. [2024] 3 S.C.R. 83 M/S Arif Azim Co. Ltd. v. M/S Aptech Ltd. ● 17.5% of the gross collections received in the 5th year. Gross collections means the total gross collections, which have accrued to the Franchisee (irrespective of whether realized or not) from the conduct of licensed business of Aptech in the designated territory. Amounts payable as Recurring Franchisee Fees will be remitted on or before 10th of the subsequent month for the preceding calendar month e.g. Recurring Franchisee Fees for the gross collections received during the period 1st April to 30th April will be remitted on or before May 10th Such recurring payments shall be made on monthly basis accompanied by the statement of course fees for each Course for the relevant month and also for the total period for which Franchisee’s financial year relates.