[Paras 72, 73, 74] 3.2. Even in the cases consisting of imposition of a death sentence, it is always a discretion available to the courts as to whether to award such an extreme punishment or not – There is even an institutional safeguard in the cases of such punishment to the effect that the decision of the trial court inflicting death penalty cannot be executed unless it is confirmed by the High Court – Even in the cases of convicts for the commission of most extreme and heinous offences, the punishment cannot be imposed without following the mandatory requirements under the statute – In that light, can it be said that a person who is only accused of committing some crime or even convicted can be inflicted the punishment of demolition of his property/properties? The answer is an emphatic ‘No’. [Para 75] 724 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 4. There is another angle to this problem – It is not only the accused who lives in such property or owns such property – If his spouse, children, parents live in the same house or co-own the same property, can they be penalized by demolishing the property without them even being involved in any crime only on the basis of them being related to an alleged accused person? What is their mistake if their relative is arrayed as an accused in some complaint or F.I.R.? As is well known, a pious father may have a recalcitrant son and vice versa – Punishing such persons who have no connection with the crime by demolishing the house where they live in or properties owned by them is nothing but an anarchy and would amount to a violation of the right to life guaranteed under the Constitution – The right to shelter is one of the facets of Article 21 – Depriving such innocent people of their right to life by removing shelter from their heads, would be wholly unconstitutional. [Paras 76, 78] 5. Though in some cases it may be by sheer coincidence that the properties which were in breach of local municipal laws governing them also happen to belong to the accused persons, however, when a particular structure is chosen all of a sudden for demolition and the rest of the similarly situated structures in the same vicinity are not even being touched, mala fide may loom large – In such cases, where the authorities indulge into arbitrary pick and choose of the structures and it is established that soon before initiation of such an action an occupant of the structure was found to be involved in a criminal case, a presumption could be drawn that the real motive for such demolition proceedings was not the illegal structure but an action of penalizing the accused without even trying him before the court of law – No doubt, such a presumption could be rebuttable, however, the authorities will have to satisfy the court that it did not intend to penalize a person accused by demolishing the structure.