(L). Boiss (Safed rai), Brassica compestris L.var, dichotoma (Kali Sarson), Brasssica Compestris, L. Var, yellow Sarson, Syn, Brassica compestris L, var glauca (Pili Sarson), Brassica, compestris L. Var. toria (Toria), Barassicajuncea, 2058 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (L). Coss et Czern (Rai, Lotni) and Brassica nigra (L); Koch (Benarasi rai). It shall be free from mould, living and dead insects, insect fragments, rodent contamination. The product shall be free from the seeds of Argemone Maxicana L, any other harmful substances and added colouring matter. It shall conform to the following standards: (i) Extraneous matter Not more than 2.0 percent by weight. (ii) Damaged or Not more than Shrivelled Seeds 2.0 percent by weight. (iii) Moisture Not more than 10.0 percent by weight. (iv) Total ash on dry Not more than basis 6.5 percent by weight. (v) Ash insoluble in Not more than dilute HCl on dry 1.0 percent by weight. basis (vi) Non volatile ether Not less than extract on dry basis 28.0 percent by weight. (vii) Violatile oil content Not less than on dry basis 0.3 percent by v/w. (viii) Insect damaged Not more than matter 1.0 percent by weight. (ix) Allyl iso thiocyanate (m/m) on dry basis (a) B nigra Not less than 1.0 percent by Weight. (b) B Juncea Not less than 0.7 percent by Weight. (x) P-hydroxybenzyl Not less than 2.3 iso-thiocyanate percent by weight. (m/m) on dry basis in sinapist alba (xi) Argemone seeds Absent.” [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2059 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 (EP Act, 1986): 24. EP Act, 1986 has been enacted to provide for the protection and improvement of environment and for matters connected therewith. The relevant provisions of the said Act are extracted as under: “2. Definitions.- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,- (a) “environment” includes water, air and land and the inter-relationship which exists among and between water, air and land, and human beings, other living creatures, plants, micro-organism and property; (b) “environmental pollutant” means any solid, liquid or gaseous substance present in such concentration as may be, or tend to be, injurious to environment; (c) “environmental pollution” means the presence in the environment of any environmental pollutant;” 1989 Rules: 25. In exercise of the powers conferred by Sections 6, 8 and 25 of the EP Act, 1986 and with a view to protect the environment, nature and health in connection with the application of gene-technology and micro-organisms, the Central Government has framed the 1989 Rules. The said Rules dealing with manufacture, use, import, export and storage of hazardous micro-organisms/GE organisms or cells were notified with a view to protect the environment, nature and health in connection with the application of gene-technology and micro-organisms. These Rules were gazetted on 05.12.1989 and are applicable to Genetically Engineered Organisms (GEOs)/ micro-organisms and cells and correspondingly to any substances and products and food stuffs, etc., of which such cells, organisms or tissues thereof form part. The Rules also apply to new gene- technologies, apart from those referred to in clause (ii) and (iv) of Rule 3, and to organisms/micro-organisms and cells generated by the utilisation of such other gene-technologies and to substances and products of which such organisms and cells form part.