Discussing the recommendations of Shetty Commission and the precedents of this Court, it was held that All India Judges (2002) is sub-silentio on the aspect of minimum marks for interview and cannot be said to have authoritatively pronounced on doing away with minimum marks for interview. 21. However, in our view, even though prescribing minimum marks for interview may not be manifestly arbitrary, the present case is on the failure to make the selection, in accordance with the unamended MJS Rules, based on aggregate marks secured by the petitioner in the written examination and the viva-voce test. This aspect was also discussed in Abhimeet Sinha (supra): “68. The implications of the split in Salam Samarjeet Singh v. High Court of Manipur [Salam Samarjeet Singh v. High Court of Manipur, (2016) 10 SCC 484 : (2017) 1 SCC (L&S) 147] will next bear consideration. Banumathi, J. in her noticed that All India Judges (2002) [All India Judges Assn. (3) v. Union of India, (2002) 4 SCC 247 : 2002 SCC (L&S) 508] is sub silentio on the aspect of minimum cut-off marks for the viva voce test. In his dissenting , Shiva Kirti Singh, J. had not [2024] 8 S.C.R. 895 Salam Samarjeet Singh v. The High Court of Manipur at Imphal & Anr expressed any disagreement on the said sub silentio observation but left it open for determination in a future case. There again, the dissent of Singh, J. was based on the fact that minimum cut-off was not prescribed in the recruitment rules and were brought in midway through the recruitment process, just prior to the stage of interview, by resolution of the Court. Here however the prescription of minimum cut-off in the recruitment process was notified for information of the candidates well before the commencement of the selection process under the Patna High Court and also under the Gujarat High Court and this distinguishing feature will have to be borne in mind.” 22. The in Abhimeet Sinha (supra) reiterated the following position in case of inconsistency between the recommendations of Shetty Commission and the rules framed by the High Court as per the proviso to Article 309 of the Constitution of India: “(i) In case of inconsistency between the recommendations and the Rules, primacy should be given to the existing statutory rules. (ii) In the absence of existing Rules, the High Court should follow the directions of this Court. 60. For the sake of completeness, we may however clarify that even though the statutory rules can be supplemented to fill in gaps as held in Kavita Kamboj v. High Court of P&H [Kavita Kamboj v. High Court of P&H, (2024) 7 SCC 103] , the High Court cannot act contrary to the Rules [Sivanandan C.T. v. High Court of Kerala, (2024) 3 SCC 799 : (2024) 1 SCC (L&S) 67].” [emphasis supplied] 23. Applying the above legal proposition, it is seen that in this matter, the mode of evaluation was provided for in the Rules. This is not a case where the Rules were silent.