Gavai, J.) (Concurring): In Indra Sawhney, 7 Learned Judges affirmed the position as laid down in N.M. Thomas 1324 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports that clause (4) of Article 16 is not by way of an exception to clause (1) of Article 16, but it is an emphatic way of stating a principle implicit in Article 16(1) – It has been held that further classification of backward classes into backward and more backward classes is permissible under the Constitution – It has been held in Indra Sawhney that under Article 16(4) the Scheduled Castes are also included in the term ‘backward class of citizens’. [Paras 247, 248] Held (per Pankaj Mithal, J.) (Concurring): The Chief Justice in his opinion has clearly opined that this Court in Indra Sawhney never intended to limit the application of sub-classification to the other backward classes only – If any class is not integrated it can be further classified and such sub-classification of a class would not be violative of Article 14 of the Constitution, so long persons in a class are not similarly situated. [Para 79] Held (per Bela M. Trivedi, J. ): Though Indra Sawhney had sought to define “backward class” in terms of social backwardness, while considering the ambit of “backward class” for the purpose of Article 16(4), it did not deal with the issue qua the Scheduled Castes/ Scheduled Tribes particularly in the light of Article 341/342, rather it categorically kept the Scheduled Castes/ Scheduled Tribes outside the purview of consideration – The Scheduled Castes being the most backward class amongst the backward classes, and having acquired a special status by virtue of Article 341, the question of defining “backward class” qua the “Scheduled Castes” did not arise, and rightly not dealt with in Indra Sawhney for the purposes of Article 16(4) of the Constitution. [Para 70] Reservation – Whether Scheduled Castes under Article 341, constitute a homogeneous class – Held (per majority), No – Constitution of India – Art. 341. Held (per Dr D Y Chandrachud, CJI) (for himself and Manoj Misra, J. ): 1. In Chinnaiah, Justice Santosh Hegde observed that the Castes notified by the President in the exercise of power under Article 341 form a class in themselves – For this purpose, the learned Judge relied on certain observations of the Constitution Bench in NM Thomas case – In NM Thomas however, rules providing concessions to the members of the Scheduled Castes for qualifying at the entrance examination were challenged – One of the issues before the Court was whether the concession to the members of the Scheduled Castes violated Article 16(2) since it discriminates solely on the ground of “caste” – To overcome the [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1325 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. embargo placed by Article 16(2), the learned Judges observed that provision for affirmative action is made in favour of the Scheduled Castes, which once notified by the President in exercise of the power under Article 341 are not a “caste” but a class – The class that is constituted by the Presidential notification as the Scheduled Castes consists of numerous castes, thereby forming a class – The observations in NM Thomas do not go further to state that it is a homogenous class that cannot be classified further – Additionally, the approach adopted in NM Thomas by this Court that the Scheduled Castes are a class because they comprise of a collection of castes must be read in the context of the nine-Judge Bench decision in Indra Sawhney, where this Court held that caste is itself a class – Therefore, the inference drawn by Justice Hegde in Chinnaiah that the Scheduled Castes are a homogenous class based on the above observations in NM Thomas is erroneous.