The learned Single Judge recorded that the Arbitral Tribunal referred to only a part of the depositions of the witnesses and ignored the rest. Further, the learned Single Judge held that the delay on the part of the appellant in completing other projects was neither pleaded nor proved. Moreover, the learned Single Judge held that even assuming that there was a delay in completion of other projects on the part of the appellant, that would be no ground for grant of relief for specific performance. The learned Single Judge recorded something about the approach of the Arbitral Tribunal in paragraph 168. The learned Single Judge objected to the learned Arbitrator relying on the news report of some other developer’s project in the Times of India. The learned Single Judge noted that the news article was published after the arguments were concluded. Moreover, the learned Single Judge found that relying upon the material, not forming part of the record, amounts to a breach of the principles of natural justice. A clear finding recorded by the learned Single Judge is that the learned Arbitrator has applied different yardsticks to the evidence adduced by both parties. Therefore, the Arbitral Tribunal did not treat the parties as equals. 12. The learned Judge held that while dealing with the per square feet rate of the flats for awarding a claim for damages, the Arbitral Tribunal completely ignored the evidence on record, which showed that the respondent had sold the flats at much lower rates. The learned Single Judge also discussed the finding recorded while rejecting the counterclaim. The learned Single Judge held that though the Arbitral Tribunal concluded that the building did not have a load-bearing capacity of 22 floors, the respondent neither pleaded nor proved the load-bearing capacity of the building. The learned Single Judge also held that awarding payment of interest on interest-free deposit was contrary to the terms of the contract, which shows patent illegality. However, the learned Single Judge rejected the allegation of bias made by the appellant against the learned Arbitrator. 152 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 13. We have referred to only material findings of the learned Single Judge by way of illustration to emphasise that there is a very elaborate consideration of the merits of the challenge to the award in the of the learned Single Judge. 14. Now, we turn to the of the Division Bench in the appeal under Section 37 of the Arbitration Act. The approach of the Division Bench is reflected in paragraph 4 of the impugned , which reads thus: “4. Having heard the learned counsel for the parties, we were of the opinion that the impugned is required to be set aside and the matter needs to be remanded to the learned Single Judge for de novo consideration. We had put it to the counsel for the parties that the appeal can be remanded, without detailed reasons, by consent, keeping all contentions open. The Appellant was ready but the Respondent was not ready.