If the evidence indicates that he had no such knowledge he would be entitled to retain the property purchased being a bona fide purchaser and his title to the property remains unaffected by subsequent reversal of the decree. The court by all means should protect his purchase. But if it is shown by evidence that he was aware of the pending appeal against the decree when he purchased the property, it would be inappropriate to term him as a bona fide purchaser. In such a case the court also cannot assume that he was a bona fide or innocent purchaser for giving him protection against restitution. No assumption could be made contrary to the facts and circumstances of the case and any such assumption would be wrong and uncalled for.” 16. Whether a third-party auction purchaser who had the knowledge of the pending proceedings can resist restitution has been answered against such auction purchaser in paras 14, 16 & 17 of Chinnamal (supra) “14. This proposition, we are, however, unable to accept. In our opinion, the person who purchases the property in court auction with the knowledge of the pending appeal [2024] 6 S.C.R. 641 Bhikchand S/o Dhondiram Mutha (Deceased) Through Lrs. v. Shamabai Dhanraj Gugale (Deceased) Through Lrs. against the decree cannot resist restitution. His knowledge about the pending litigation would make all the difference in the case. He may be a stranger to the suit, but he must be held to have taken calculated risk in purchasing the property. Indeed, he is evidently a speculative purchaser, and, in that respect, he is in no better position than the decree holder purchaser. The need to protect him against restitution, therefore, seems to be unjustified. Similarly, the auction purchaser who was a name lender to the decree holder or who has colluded with the decree holder to purchase the property could not also be protected to retain the property if the decree is subsequently reversed. 16. This is also the principle underlying Section 144 of the Code of Civil Procedure. It is the duty of all the courts as observed by the Privy Council “as aggregate of those tribunals” to take care that no act of the court in the course of the whole of the proceedings does an injury to the suitors in the court. The above passage was quoted in the majority of this Court in A.R. Antulay v. R.S. Nayak [(1988) 2 SCC 602, 672: 1988 SCC (Cri) 372]. Mukharji, J., as he then was, after referring to the said observation of Lord Cairns, said: (SCC p. 672, para 83) “No man should suffer because of the mistake of the court. No man should suffer a wrong by technical procedure of irregularities. Rules or procedures are the handmaids of justice and not the mistress of the justice. Ex debito justitiae, we must do justice to him. If a man has been wronged so long as it lies within the human machinery of administration of justice that wrong must be remedied.” 17.