1469 Shri Mukund Bhavan Trust and Ors. v. Shrimant Chhatrapati Udayan Raje Pratapsinh Maharaj Bhonsle and Another question of law and facts. Though the question of limitation generally is mixed question of law and facts, when upon meaningful reading of the plaint, the court can come to a conclusion that under the given circumstances, after dissecting the vices of clever drafting creating an illusion of cause of action, the suit is hopelessly barred and the plaint can be rejected under VII Rule 11. In the present case, we have already held that 02.03.2007 is a fictional date. It is not a case where a fraudulent document was created by the appellant or his predecessors. The title of the suit property as observed by us earlier was conveyed in 1938 and 1952, and what transpired later by way of compromise was only an affirmative assertion by the State. While so, the prayer (a) made in the suit relates to declaration to the effect that the Respondent No. 1 is the owner of the suit properties. 19. As per Section 31 of the Specific Relief Act, 1963, a declaration to adjudge the documents as void or voidable must be sought if it causes a serious injury. In the present case, the sale deeds undisputably stand adverse to the interest and right of the plaintiff and hence, a relief to declare them as invalid must have been sought. Though the plaintiff has pleaded the documents to be void and sought to ignore the documents, we do not think that the document is void, but rather, according to us, it can only be treated as voidable. The claim of the plaintiff that the grant is only a revenue grant and not a soil grant, has not been accepted by the State which entered into a compromise. In paragraph 14 of the plaint, there is an averment that the original sanad was lost and a new sanad was given to the effect that the inam was a revenue grant based on the report of the Inam Commissioner. Again, specific dates are not mentioned in the plaint. In paragraph 25, the plaintiff alleges that third party rights were created by the Gosavi family without any right. Here also, the details are vague. It can be inferred that such rights ultimately culminated into court auction, in which, the property was sold to the appellant. Since the original Sanad was lost, the plaintiff had initiated a suit against the State which was compromised. It is not in dispute that there was a grant. There is only a dispute with regard to the contents of the Sanad, which was lost. In the absence of the original Sanad, it is not possible for any court to determine the contents of the same. The alleged misrepresentation is neither to the character nor is there any allegation of forgery or fabrication. It is also settled law that a document is void only if there is a misrepresentation on its 1470 [2024] 12 S.C.R.