1418 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “787. […] “Backward class of citizens” in Article 16(4) takes in Scheduled Tribes, Scheduled Castes and all other backward classes of citizens including the socially and educationally backward classes. Thus, certain classes which may not qualify for Article 15(4) may qualify for Article 16(4). They may not qualify for Article 15(4) but they may qualify as backward class of citizens for the purposes of Article 16(4). […] Thus, SEBCs referred to in Article 340 is only [one] of the categories for whom Article 16(4) was enacted: Article 16(4) applies to a much larger class than the one contemplated by Article 340. It would, thus, be not correct to say that ‘backward class of citizens’ in Article 16(4) are the same as the socially and educationally backward classes in Article 15(4). Saying so would mean and imply reading a limitation into a beneficial provision like Article 16(4). Moreover, when speaking of reservation in appointments/posts in the State services- which may mean, at any level whatsoever-insisting upon educational backwardness may not be quite appropriate.” 154. The observation above must not be read in a vacuum. The purport of the observation by Justice Jeevan Reddy is clarified in the subsequent paragraph where the learned Judge observed that though educational backwardness is not to be excluded as a criterion, social backwardness must have caused educational backwardness: “788. […] It goes without saying that in the Indian context, social backwardness leads to educational backwardness and both of them together lead to poverty- which in turn breeds and perpetuates the social and educational backwardness. They feel upon each other constituting a vicious cycle. It is a well-known fact that till independence the administrative apparatus was manned almost exclusively by members of the ‘upper’ castes. The Shudras, the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes and other similar backward social groups among Muslims and Christians had practically no entry into the administrative apparatus. It was this imbalance which was sought to be redressed by providing for reservations in favour of such [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1419 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. backward classes. […] We are, accordingly, of the opinion that the backwardness contemplated by Article 16(4) is mainly social backwardness. It would not be correct to say that the backwardness under Article 16(4) should be both social and educational.” 155. In Indra Sawhney (supra), Justice Pandian defined the backward class of citizens as “a group of persons having common traits or attributes coupled with retarded social, material (economic) and intellectual (educational) development in the sense that not having so much of intellect and ability will fall within the ambit of ‘any backward class of citizens’ under Article 16(4)”.209 The learned Judge further elucidated that the “primary consideration” in identifying the backward class is social backwardness.210 Justice Sawant also observed that in identifying the beneficiary class under Article 16(4), social backwardness must be given importance. Justice Sawant held that the criterion for the identification of the beneficiary class is whether it is socially backward and whether the class which is educationally and economically backward, is so because of its social backwardness.211 156.