It has been observed that special provisions have been made for the advancement of Backward Classes and reservations of appointments and posts for them to secure adequate representation. It has been emphasized that only such special provisions will bring out the content of equality guaranteed by Articles 14, 15(1) and 16(1). His Lordship goes on to say that preferential treatment for members of Backward Classes with due regard to administrative efficiency alone can mean equality of opportunity for all citizens. It has been observed that equality of opportunity for unequals can only mean aggravation of inequality and that equality of opportunity admits discrimination with reason and prohibits discrimination without reason. His Lordship held that discrimination with reasons means rational classification for differential treatment having nexus to the constitutionally permissible object. It has been held that Preferential representation for the Backward Classes in services with due regard to administrative efficiency is permissible object and Backward Classes are a rational classification recognized by the Constitution. It has been held that the differential treatment in standards of selection is within the concept of equality. 72. I now refer to the following observations of K.K. Mathew, J.: “53. Formal equality is achieved by treating all persons equally: “Each man to count for one and no one to count for more than one.” But men are not equal in all respects. The claim for equality is in fact a protest against unjust, undeserved and unjustified inequalities. It is a symbol of man’s revolt against chance, fortuitous disparity, unjust power and crystallised privileges. Although the decision to grant equality is motivated prima facie by the alleged reason that all men are equal yet, as soon as we clear up the confusion between equality in the moral sense and equality in the physical sense, we realise that the opposite is the truth; for, we think that it is just to promote certain equalities precisely to compensate for the fact that men 1486 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports are actually born different. We, therefore, have to resort to some sort of proportionate equality in many spheres to achieve justice. 54. The principle of proportional equality is attained only when equals are treated equally and unequals unequally. This would raise the baffling question: Equals and unequals in what? The principle of proportional equality therefore involves an appeal to some criterion in terms of which differential treatment is justified. If there is no significant respect in which persons concerned are distinguishable, differential treatment would be unjustified. But what is to be allowed as a significant difference such as would justify differential treatment? 55. In distributing the office of a State, not any sort of personal equality is relevant; for, unless we employ criteria appropriate to the sphere in question, it would turn out that a man’s height or complexion could determine his eligibility or suitability for a post. As Aristotle said, claims to political office cannot be based on prowess in athletic contests. Candidates for office should possess those qualities that go to make up an effective use of the office.