has power to look into material placed by the accused in arriving at its conclusion for discharge. 20. For both the appellants, reliance was placed on Radheshyam Kejriwal v. State of West Bengal & Anr., (2011) 3 SCC 581, Ashoo Surendranath Tewari v. CBI & Anr. (2020) 9 SCC 636 and J. Sekar v. Directorate of Enforcement, (2022) 7 SCC 370 to contend that where there is exoneration on merits in a civil adjudication, criminal prosecution on the same set of facts and circumstances cannot be allowed to continue since the underlying principle is that the standard of proof in criminal cases is higher. 21. The submissions of the appellants were strongly refuted by Mr. K.M. Nataraj, learned Additional Solicitor General. Learned ASG contended as follows: (i) That at the stage of framing of charges what is relevant is material as is available on the date of framing of the charge; (ii) That a court of law is not required to appreciate evidence at the stage of framing of charges to conclude whether the materials produced are sufficient or not for convicting the accused; (iii) That it was settled law that probative value of material on record cannot be gone into at the stage of framing of charges since the court was not conducting a mini trial; (iv) Relying on Sheoraj Singh Ahlawat & Ors. v. State of U.P. & Anr., (2013) 11 SCC 476, it was contended that all that has 692 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports to be seen is whether there is a ground for presuming that the offence has been committed and not whether there was ground for convicting the accused; (v) That even a strong suspicion founded on material which leads the court to form a presumptive opinion as to the existence of the factual ingredients constituting the offence would justify the framing of the charge. (vi) Reliance placed on the of the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal dated 21.08.2007 is subsequent to the framing of charges and even otherwise cannot be the basis for the discharge of the accused; (vii) That the criminal prosecution does not depend upon the passed by the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal and, most importantly, the prosecution was not and could not have been a party before the Income Tax Authorities and the ITAT; (viii) That the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal can be at best, if permissible in law, used as a piece of evidence and the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal will not have the effect of nullifying the framing charges by a criminal court. Reliance has been placed on Selvi J. Jayalalitha (supra), Vishwanath Chaturvedi (3) v. Union of India & Ors., (2007) 4 SCC 380 and State of T.N. v. N. Suresh Rajan & Ors., (2014) 11 SCC 709 to contend that the findings of the Income Tax Authorities are not binding on a criminal court to readily accept the legality or lawfulness of the source of income. (ix) The power to quash a proceeding and nip the same in the bud has to be exercised with great caution and circumspection.