The concept of. anticipatory bail, as envisaged under-Section 438 Cr.P.C. would stand frustrated. The provisions of grant of 270 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports anticipatory bail are essentially to prevent the concerned person from litigation initiated with the object of injuring and humiliating the applicant by haying him so arrested and for a person who stands already arrested, such a factor does not remain available. 26. In view of above discussion, this Court holds that the anticipatory bail would not lie and would not be maintainable if a person is already arrested and is in custody of police or judicial custody in relation to another criminal case which may be for similar offence or for different offences.” (Emphasis supplied) 10. In the case of Rajesh Kumar Sharma (supra), a learned Single Judge of the High Court of Allahabad followed the view taken by the High Court of Rajasthan referred to above. 11. In Bashir Hasan Siddiqui (supra), a learned Single Judge of the High Court of Delhi, relying on Sunil Kallani (supra) and Rajesh Kumar Sharma (supra), took a similar view that an application seeking anticipatory bail would not be maintainable at the instance of a person who apprehends arrest if such a person is already arrested and is in custody in connection with a different offence. The relevant observations made by the High Court in paragraph 6 of the said decision are extracted as under: “6. Therefore, keeping in view the entire facts and circumstances and also taking into account the passed by the Rajasthan High Court in Sunil Kallani (supra) and subsequently passed by Allahabad High Court in Rajesh Kumar Sharma (supra), this Court is in consonance with the opinions of both the High Court that since the accused is in custody in another FIR, the anticipatory bail in other FIR is not maintainable. As a result, the present petition stands dismissed.” (Emphasis supplied) 12. In Alnesh Akil Somji v. State of Maharashtra reported in 2021 SCC OnLine Bom 5276, a learned Single Judge of the High Court of Judicature at Bombay formulated the following question of law for its consideration: [2024] 9 S.C.R. 271 Dhanraj Aswani v. Amar S. Mulchandani & Anr. “Whether an anticipatory bail application would be maintainable by an accused who is already arrested and is in magisterial custody in relation to another crime?” 13. The Bombay High Court also took notice of the decision of the High Court of Rajasthan in Sunil Kallani (supra). The decision of this Court in the case of Narinderjit Singh Sahni (supra) was also looked into and ultimately it was held that an accused has every right, even if he is arrested in a number of cases, to move the courts for anticipatory bail in each of the offence registered against him, irrespective of the fact that he is already in custody in relation to a different offence. The High Court was of the view that the application(s) under Section 438 of the CrPC would have to be heard and decided on merits independent of the other cases in which he is already in custody.