Undoubtedly, the allegations of Cruelty as contemplated under Section 498A have to be established beyond reasonable doubt. Similarly, the charge under Section 306 also has to be proved by the Prosecution beyond reasonable doubt by leading cogent evidence that the appellant abetted the deceased to commit suicide as contemplated in Section 107 of IPC. Of course, Section 113A of the Evidence Act permits the Court to raise a presumption as to abetment of suicide, if the Suicide was committed within seven years of the marriage and if it is proved that she was subjected to 60 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the “Cruelty” as explained in Section 498A by her husband or the relative of the husband. However, for the purpose of raising the presumption by the Court under Section 113A of the Evidence Act, the basic facts as contemplated in the said provision, need to be proved by the Prosecution. 9. In the light of the above legal position, if the facts of the present case are appreciated, it appears that there are certain facts which have not been disputed, rather have been duly proved by the prosecution. Apart from the fact of the appellant had married the deceased on 10.10.1992, and the deceased had given birth to a male child from the loins of the appellant on 18.12.1993, the filing of three cases by the deceased during her life time against the appellant, i.e. (i) FIR No. 59/1993 dated 12.07.1993 under Section 498-A and 506 IPC; (ii) complaint/Kalendra under Section 107/151 of Cr.P.C. dated 01.07.1993 and (iii) case under Section 125 Cr.P.C in May, 1994 seeking maintenance for herself and her child, is also not disputed. The fact of the deceased having committed suicide by consuming tablets of aluminum phosphide, which is supposed to be an insecticide, is also duly proved by the prosecution. It is also pertinent to note that the trial Court and the High Court have concurrently held the appellant guilty of the offence under Section 498-A IPC by holding that the appellant had subjected the deceased to cruelty. 10. Though it was sought to be submitted on behalf of the appellant that as per the suicide note Exhibit DF, the suicide was committed by the deceased on account of her intolerable pain and illness and not due to the Cruelty of the Appellant, the said contention deserves to be considered for rejection only. Apart from the fact that the said suicidal note does not appear to have been duly exhibited for being admitted in evidence, the fact that the appellant had not even bothered to inform the parents of the deceased immediately after the incident smacked of his guilt. The two defense witnesses claiming to be the neighbours of the appellant were examined to prove that the relationship between the appellant and his wife was cordial and not discordant, however they also do not inspire any confidence, in view of the undisputed and proved facts that the deceased had filed three cases against the appellant during her lifetime in respect of harassment and cruelty subjected to her by the Appellant.