In the light of the above edict, it was not open to the CBI to blithely ignore the statutory remedy available to it under Section 397 Cr.P.C and thereafter resort to filing of an application under Section 482 Cr.P.C. 25. We may also note that in the event a revision is lawfully instituted before the High Court but the same is thereafter found to be not [2024] 4 S.C.R. 321 Vipin Sahni and Another v. Central Bureau of Investigation maintainable on some other ground, it would be open to the High Court to treat the same as a petition filed under Section 482 Cr.P.C in to do justice in that case. However, the reverse analogy may not apply in all cases and it would not be open to the High Court to blindly convert or treat a petition filed under Section 482 Cr.P.C as one filed under Section 397 Cr.P.C., without reference to other issues, including limitation. When the specific remedy of revision was available to the CBI, it could not have ignored the same and filed a petition under Section 482 Cr.P.C. We, therefore, find in favour of the appellants even on this count. 26. On the above analysis we are of the opinion that the learned Magistrate was fully justified in exercising power under Section 239 Cr.P.C. and discharging the appellants from criminal proceedings in relation to Case No. 456 of 2012. The High Court adopted a rather technical approach and practically concluded that the appellants were guilty of deliberately withholding relevant information so as to secure the approvals by deceitful means. This finding of the High Court is not supported by the admitted facts, which indicate disclosure of the mortgage at the outset when the first application was made and, therefore, there is no possibility of inferring that the appellants conspired in terms of Section 120A IPC to commit an illegal act of suppression so as to secure the approvals. Further, the AICTE itself never claimed that it was dishonestly induced to grant such approvals and that essential link is altogether missing, whereby any such criminal charge of cheating can be sustained against the appellants. The impugned dated 20.01.2023 passed by the Allahabad High Court in Application U/S 482 Cr.P.C No. 11426 of 2021 is, therefore, set aside and the of discharge passed by the learned Special Judicial Magistrate, CBI Court, Ghaziabad, in Case No. 456 of 2012 is restored. In consequence, the appellants shall stand discharged of the alleged offence under Sections 420 and 120B IPC in Case Crime No. 219 of 2011 (E) 0016. The criminal appeal is allowed accordingly. Pending applications shall stand closed. Headnotes prepared by: Result of the case: Himanshu Rai, Hony. Associate Editor Appeal allowed. (Verified by: Abhinav Mukerji, Sr. Adv.)