Held (per B.R. Gavai, J. ): 1. Taking into consideration that the Constitution itself recognizes the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes to be the most backward section of the society, the parameters for exclusion from affirmative action of the person belonging to this category may not be the same that is applicable to the other classes – If a person from such a category, by bagging the benefit of reservation achieved a position of a peon or maybe a sweeper, he would continue to belong to a socially, economically and educationally backward class – At the same time, the people from this category, who after having availed the benefits of reservation have reached the high echelons in life cannot be considered to be socially, economically and educationally backward so as to continue availing the benefit of affirmative action – They have already reached a stage where on their own accord they should walk out of the special provisions and give way to the deserving and needy. [Para 294] [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1331 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. 2. The State must evolve a policy for identifying the creamy layer even from the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes so as exclude them from the benefit of affirmative action – Only this and this alone can achieve the real equality as enshrined under the Constitution. [Para 295] 3. The finding of M. Nagaraj, Jarnail Singh and Davinder Singh to the effect that creamy layer principle is also applicable to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes lays down the correct position of law. [Para 296 (vii)] 4. The criteria for exclusion of the creamy layer from the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes for the purpose of affirmative action could be different from the criteria as applicable to the Other Backward Classes. [Para 296 (viii)] Held (per Vikram Nath, J.) (Concurring): I am in agreement with the opinion of Brother Justice Gavai that ‘creamy layer’ principle is also applicable to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, and that the criteria for exclusion of creamy layer for the purpose of affirmative action could be different from the criteria as applicable to the Other Backward Classes. [Para 2] Held (per Pankaj Mithal, J.) (Concurring): 1. Justice Gavai has rightly concluded that the State must evolve a policy of identifying the creamy layer even from the scheduled castes and scheduled tribes so as to exclude them from the benefit of reservation. [Para 83] 2. In the Constitutional regime, there is no caste system and the country has moved into a casteless society except for the deeming provision under the Constitution for the limited purposes of affording reservation to the depressed class of persons, downtrodden or belonging to SC/ST/OBC – Therefore, any facility or privilege for the promotion of the above categories of persons has to be on a totally different criteria other than the caste may be on economic or financial factors, status of living, vocation and the facilities available to each one of them based upon their place of living (urban or rural).