& ORS. 2005 till today is concerned, the State shall pay the appellants 50% of the backwages. Since the appointment and the approval are still in force, we declare that the appellants have always been and are deemed to be in service. Apart from 50% backwages, as ed above, we direct that all consequential benefits, including seniority, notional promotion, if any, and fitment of salary and other service benefits due, be granted to the appellants. We direct the State to comply with these directions within four weeks from today. We also direct that the appellants be allowed to commence work within the said period of four weeks. 35. We notice from the record that the Committee of Management, Junior High School, Bahorikpur was arrayed as fifth respondent in the writ petition before the High Court. They are also arrayed as fifth respondent before us in these appeals. Before us, even though notice has been served on the Committee of Management, Junior High School, Bahorikpur, nobody has entered appearance. It appears that even before the learned Single Judge and the Division Bench, the Committee of Management did not appear. We grant liberty to the State to issue a show-cause notice to the Committee of Management (R-5), after setting out clearly the charge pertaining to the alleged manipulation of the sanction and altering of the figure from two to three. After receiving reply, if any, and after holding an inquiry with an opportunity of personal hearing, the State will be at liberty to pass an appropriate . In the event of the Committee of Management being exonerated, no further question will arise. In the event of them being found guilty of the charge, in view of any finding that may be arrived that the manipulation prior to the recruitment was done at the level of the employees of the school (whether by themselves or in collusion with the officials), we grant liberty to the State to recover from the Committee of Management one-third of the arrears, as ed to be paid, hereinabove. This direction will serve the ends of justice in the matter. 36. The appeals are allowed in the above terms. No as to costs. Headnotes prepared by: Ankit Gyan Result of the case: Appeals allowed.