This would be so all the more if the tribunals holding the original trial and the tribunals hearing the appeal or revision were merely departmental tribunals composed of persons belonging to the departmental hierarchy without adequate legal training and background and whose glaring lapses occasionally come to our notice. The superior court will ordinarily decline to interfere by issuing certiorari and all we say is that in a proper case of the kind mentioned above it has the power to do so and may and should exercise it. We say no more than that.” 52. In Shri Farid Ahmed Abdul Samad and Another vs. The Municipal Corporation of the City of Ahmedabad and Another, (1976) 3 SCC 719, an attempt was made to cover up the breach of the audi alteram partem rule by seeking refuge under the principle that proceedings in the higher body would cure the breach in the original body. Justice P.K. Goswami, speaking for a three-Judge Bench, rebuffed it and echoed sentiments similar to the one expressed in Lloyd (supra) in the following words:- “22. We should make it clear that provision for appeal is not a complete substitute for a personal hearing which is provided for under Section 5A of the Land Acquisition Act. This will be evident from a perusal of Clause 3 of Schedule B itself. The character of the appeal contemplated under Clause 3(ii) of Schedule B is only with regard to the examination of the following aspects: (1) whether the or approval of the plan is within the powers of the Bombay Act, and (2) whether the interests of the appellant have been substantially prejudiced by any requirement of this Act not having been complied with. [2024] 4 S.C.R. 219 Krishnadatt Awasthy v. State of Madhya Pradesh & Ors. The appeal is confined under Clause 3 of Schedule B to the examination of only the twin aspects referred to above. There is no provision for entertainment of any other relevant objection to the acquisition of land. For example a person whose land is acquired may object to the suitability of the land for the particular purpose acquired. He may again show that he will be at an equal disadvantage if his land and house have to be acquired in to provide accommodation for the poorer people as he himself belongs to the same class of the indigent. He may further show that there is a good alternative land available and can be acquired without causing inconvenience to the occupants of the houses whose lands and houses are sought to be acquired. There may be other relevant objections which a person may be entitled to take before the Commissioner when the whole matter is at large. The Commissioner will be in a better position to examine those objections and consider their weight from all aspects and may even visit the locality before submitting his report to the Standing Committee with his suggestions. For this purpose also a personal hearing is necessary. The appeal court under the Schedule B to the Bombay Act, on the other hand, is not required under Clause 3 to entertain all kinds of objections and it may even refuse to consider the objections mentioned earlier in view of the truncated scope of the hearing under Clause 3(ii) as noted above.