Digital Supreme Court Reports socially and educationally backward class as opposed to the phrase “the” before Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes indicates the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes are a homogenous integrated class. We do not agree with the submission. The provision provides the State with the power to make “any” special provisions for the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes. Thereby, it recognizes the wide power of the State to employ a range of means to secure substantive equality. This would include sub-classification within the Scheduled Castes. 145. The first prong of the test for sub-classification is whether the Scheduled Castes form a homogenous integrated class for all purposes. We have held above that even if Article 341 creates a deeming fiction, the provision does not create an integrated class that cannot be further sub-classified. The provision only puts certain castes or groups or parts of them into a group called the Scheduled Castes. The castes or groups within the Scheduled Castes form an integrated class for the limited purpose of constitutional identification. They do not form an integrated class for any other purpose. We have also established through historical and empirical evidence that the Scheduled Castes notified by the President under Article 341 are a heterogenous class where groups within the class suffer from varying degrees of social backwardness. Thus, the first test is satisfied. 146. The State in exercise of its power under Articles 15 and 16 is free to identify the different degrees of social backwardness and provide special provisions (such as reservation) to achieve the specific degree of harm identified. If the Scheduled Castes are not similarly situated for the purposes of the law (or the specific harm identified), there is nothing in Articles 15, 16 and 341 which prevents the State from applying the principle of sub-classification to the class. Thus, the Scheduled Castes can be further classified if: (a) there is a rational principle for differentiation; and (b) if the rational principle has a nexus with the purpose of sub-classification. 147. One of the issues before this Court in Chinnaiah (supra) was whether the State has the legislative competence to sub-classify. Justice Santosh Hegde observed that having once fulfilled the mandate of providing reservations under Articles 15(4) and 16(4), the enactments were beyond the legislative competence of the State [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1415 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. because - first, the primary object of the law was grouping of sub- castes and apportionment of reservations was merely consequential and second, the State could not under Entry 41 of List II and Entry 25 of List III (of the Seventh Schedule) dealing with State services and education respectively, divide the Scheduled Castes List.201 Justice Sinha noted that the legislative competence of the State legislatures under Article 246 is subject to the other provisions of the Constitution, namely Article 341 of the Constitution.202 148. The opinions in Chinnaiah (supra), conflate the issue of legislative competence, which is referrable to Articles 245 and 246, with the power to ensure substantive equality under Articles 15 and 16.