Section 52(2) requires the Town Planning Officer to submit the preliminary scheme so prepared to the State Government for sanction and to, thereafter, prepare and submit to the State Government the final scheme in accordance with the provisions of Section 52(3). 21. In the said final scheme, the Town Planning Officer is required, under Section 52(3), to fix the difference between the total of the values of the original plots and the total of the values of the plots included in the scheme, in accordance with the provisions of Section 77(1) (f). Under Clause (iii) of Section 52(3), the Town Planning Officer is required to estimate the sums payable as compensation on each plot used, allotted or reserved for a public purpose or for the purpose of the appropriate authority, which is beneficial partly to owners or residents within the area of the scheme and partly to the general public, which shall be included in the costs of the scheme. Clauses (iv) to (ix), thereafter, deal with the Town Planning Officer’s power to calculate and determine the contribution to be made by the plot owners in relation to the plots used, allotted or reserved for public purposes or for the purpose of the appropriate authority which is beneficial partly to the owners or residents within the area of the scheme and partly to the general public. This would also include the calculation of the contribution to be levied on each plot owner under the final scheme. Section 52(3)(x) requires the Town Planning Officer to estimate, with reference to claims made before him, after giving due notice in the prescribed manner and form, the compensation to be paid to the owner of any property or right injuriously affected by the making of the Town Planning Scheme, in accordance with the provisions of Section 82. Section 54 provides for an appeal 610 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports against any decision of the Town Planning Officer under Section 52(3)(iii), (iv), (vi), (vii), (viii) and (x) which are to be communicated forthwith to the party concerned and such party, if aggrieved thereby, is entitled to file an appeal within one month from the date of such communication before the Board of Appeal, constituted under Section 55. Section 67(a) refers to the effect of a preliminary scheme and states that, on the day on which the preliminary scheme comes into force, all lands required by the appropriate authority shall, unless it is otherwise determined in such scheme, vest absolutely in the appropriate authority, free from all encumbrances. Section 67(b) states that upon the preliminary scheme coming into force, all rights in the original plots, which have been reconstituted into final plots, shall determine and the final plots shall become subject to the rights settled by the Town Planning Officer. Section 68 empowers the appropriate authority to summarily evict any person continuing to occupy land which he is not entitled to occupy under the preliminary scheme, in accordance with the prescribed procedure, after such preliminary scheme comes into force.