30. The complainant has alleged in the FIR, that the accused fraudulently allured him into buying the lands by using honey quoted words and that they also took advantage of the fact that the complainant was a teacher serving in a Government institution and hence he was persuaded to get the lands registered in the name of the accused. However, these allegations are one sided and do not present the true picture. The complainant after having been appointed in Government service would be conscious that indulging in land deals may land him in departmental proceedings. It was precisely for that reason, the complainant must have agreed that the lands to be purchased may not be registered in his name. On the face of the record, the property deals allegedly made in the names of other persons by using the funds partially provided by the complainant were benami transactions. 31. We may, at this stage, refer to the relevant provisions of the Benami Transactions (Prohibition), Act 1988(hereinafter being referred to as the ‘Benami Act’)(applicable at the time of the alleged transactions), and particularly Section 2(a), Section 2(c) and Section 4 thereof: - “2. Definitions- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-- (a) benami transaction means any transaction in which property is transferred to one person for a consideration paid or provided by another person; (b) ……. (c) property means property of any kind, whether movable or immovable, tangible or intangible, and includes any right or interest in such property “4. Prohibition of the right to recover property held benami- (1) No suit, claim or action to enforce any right in respect of any property held benami against the person in whose name the property is held or against any other [2024] 5 S.C.R. 825 C. Subbiah @ Kadambur Jayaraj and Others v. The Superintendent of Police and Others person shall lie by or on behalf of a person claiming to be the real owner of such property. (2) No defence based on any right in respect of any property held benami, whether against the person in whose name the property is held or against any other person, shall be allowed in any suit, claim or action by or on behalf of a person claiming to be the real owner of such property. (3) Nothing in this section shall apply,-- (a) where the person in whose name the property is held is a coparcener in a Hindu undivided family and the property is held for the benefit of the coparceners in the family; or (b) where the person in whose name the property is held is a trustee or other person standing in a fiduciary capacity, and the property is held for the benefit of another person for whom he is a trustee or towards whom he stands in such capacity.” 32. As per Section 2(a), any transaction in which property is transferred to one person for a consideration paid or provided by another person would be a “benami transaction”. 33.