2.4. The State felt aggrieved and challenged the acquittal of the Appellant and other accused before the High Court. The High Court, as already mentioned in the opening paragraph, partially allowed the appeal, sentenced the Appellant and one of his co-accused to rigorous imprisonment for seven years and confirmed the acquittal of the other two accused. 2.5. We have heard Learned Counsel(s) for the parties at a considerable length and perused the trial record with their able assistance. Contentions of Parties 3. Mr. Anuvrat Sharma, learned counsel representing the Appellant, while assailing the reversal of acquittal, contended that the High Court has failed to appreciate the evidence on record due to which it arrived at an erroneous finding. Mr. Sharma impressed that the Complainant, Farzan, was not an eye-witness to the alleged incident. He admittedly arrived at the scene only after being told about it. Learned counsel highlighted the glaring contradictions between the account provided in the FIR and the testimonies of the witnesses, as recorded by the Trial Court. 4. Mr. Sharma argued that the Trial Court, on the other hand, had considered the absence of discernible evidence to prove that the Appellant and another accused were holding knives and had caused stab injuries. In the same vein, he contended that the testimonies of the injured witnesses and medical experts, combined with the inconsistencies in the Complainant’s account, have unfolded significant gaps in the investigation conducted. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1151 Raju and Another v. State of Uttarakhand 5. Per contra, Mr. Advitiya Awasthi, learned State Counsel urged that the Appellant, along with the other accused, Bhola, voluntarily inflicted injuries upon Mathu and Imran with a knife, with the intention to cause death. He asserted that the injured witness Mathu, in his testimony, stated that at the time of the incident, both, the Appellant and Bhola were armed with knives. This testimony, he argued, aligned with the opinion of the medical expert, who had opined that Mathu’s injuries had been caused by some sharp object. 6. The singular question that requires our deliberation is whether the material on record unmistakably justifies the conviction of the Appellant under Section 307 of the IPC? Analysis 7. To begin with, it would be apposite to recount the settled proposition of law that a conviction under Section 307 of the IPC may be justified only if the accused in question possessed intent coupled with some overt act in aid of its execution.1 Ascertaining the intention to kill or having the knowledge that death may be caused as a result of the overt act, is a question of fact and hinges on the unique circumstances that each case may present. Though these fundamentals have been established in a plethora of decisions across several decades, we have briefly mentioned the same to ensure a lucid understanding of the rationale behind the instant decision. 8. Keeping these principles in mind, the intention of the Appellant in this context may perhaps be ascertained through the material on record, consisting the testimonies of the witnesses; medical opinion and the very first version of events contained in the FIR itself.