50 has been paid in excess of what was payable), it would not mean that in to seek refund of the excess sum, the notice ought to have been made within 6-months as per Section 106(3) of the Act, 1989, when the payment was made. Such a case, although of an overcharge, cannot be said to be one of “overcharge” within the meaning of Section 106(3) of the Act, 1989, thus no notice of claim would be required in such cases. 88. Another peculiar aspect which must be borne in mind, is that the subsequent event which makes a particular charge an overcharge, must take place subsequent to the date of payment. For illustration, say freight on goods carried was charged by mistake at Rs. 100 instead of Rs. 50. Now this aspect comes to the knowledge of the parties 6-months after the date of payment. This would not mean that at the time when freight was being paid it was not an overcharge, as the excess sum was realized due to a mistake committed on the date of payment irrespective of subsequent knowledge. It cannot be said that due to a bona-fide mistake neither party was under the [2024] 3 S.C.R. 1123 Union of India v. M/s Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. impression that this is an overcharge. This is reinforced from the decision of this Court in Birla Cement Works (supra). Thus, whilst deciding the applicability of Section 106(3) of the Act, 1989 what has to be seen is whether the very sum that was levied was an overcharge or not on the date of payment. Mere lack of knowledge will not postpone the accrual of cause of action to apply under Section 106(3) of the Act, 1989. 89. This distinction drawn between a claim for refund of an ‘overcharge’ and an ‘illegal charge’ is not imaginary or superfluous, but is well- founded from the landmark decision of a 9-Judge Bench of this Court in Mafatlal Industries Ltd. & Ors. v. Union of India reported in (1997) 5 SCC 536, wherein this Court observed that a claim of refund for any excise or custom duty levied will broadly fall into three categories, and the relevant observations read as under: - “290. Broadly, the basis for the various refund claims can be classified into 3 groups or categories: - (I) The levy is unconstitutional — outside the provisions of the Act or not contemplated by the Act. (II) The levy is based on misconstruction or wrong or erroneous interpretation of the relevant provisions of the Act, Rules or Notifications; or by failure to follow the vital or fundamental provisions of the Act or by acting in violation of the fundamental principles of judicial procedure. (III) Mistake of law — the levy or imposition was unconstitutional or illegal or not exigible in law (without jurisdiction) and, so found in a proceeding initiated not by the particular assessee, but in a proceeding initiated by some other assessee either by the High Court or the Supreme Court, and as soon as the assessee came to know of the (within the period of limitation), he initiated action for refund of the tax paid by him, due to mistake of law.” (Emphasis supplied) 90.