Explanation.—For the purpose of the definition the word “conviction” shall include an made under Section 118, read with Section 110 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The Tamil Nadu Prison Rules, 1983 ● 214. Separation of categories – Subject to the availability of accommodation, the prisoners; shall be segregated as follows: (a) “A” class prisoners from “B” class prisoners; (b) Civil prisoner from Criminal prisoners; (c) Female prisoners from male prisoners; (d) Adult prisoners from adolescents; (e) Convicted prisoners from undertrial prisoners; (f) Habitual prisoners from non-habitual prisoners; 598 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (g) Prisoners suffering from communicable diseases; (h) Prisoners suspected to be suffering from mental diss; (i) Homosexuals; (j) Sex perverts; (k) Drug addicts and traffickers in narcotics; (l) Inmates having suicidal tendencies; (m) Inmates exhibiting violent and aggressive tendencies; (n) Inmates having escape discipline risks; and (o) known bad characters. ● 219. Definition of habitual criminal – The following persons shall be liable to be classified as habitual criminals, namely: (i) Any person convicted of an offence punishable under chapters XII, XVII, XVIII of the Indian Penal Code (Central Act XIIV of whose previous conviction or convictions taken in conjunction with the facts of the present case shows that he is by habit a robber, dacoit thief or receiver of stolen property or that he habitually commits extortion cheating, counterfeiting coin, currency notes or stamps or forgery. (ii) Any person convicted of an offence punishable under Chapter XVI of the Indian Penal Code (Central Act XIV (1860) or under the Suppression of Immoral Traffic in Women and Girls Act, 1956 (Central Act 104 of 1956) whose previous conviction or convictions, taken in conjunction with the facts of the present case, show that he habitually commits offences against the person or is habitually engaged in immoral traffic in women or girls; (iii) Any person committed to or detained in prison under section 122 read with sections 109 or 110 of the Code or Criminal Procedure,1973 (Central, Act 2 of 1974); (iv) Any person convicted of any of the offences specified in clauses (1) and (2) above when at appears from the facts of the case, even though no previous conviction has been, proved, that he is by habit a member of a gang of dacoits, or of thieves or a dealer in stolen property, or a tracker in women or girls for immoral purposes; [2024] 10 S.C.R. 599 Sukanya Shantha v. Union of India & Ors. (v) Any person convicted of an offence and sentenced to imprisonment under the corresponding sections of the Indian Penal Code (Central Act XIV of 1860) and the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (Central Act 2 of 1974). (vi) Any person convicted by a Court or tribunal acting outside India, of an offence which would have rendered him liable to be classified as a habitual offender if he had been convicted in a Court established in India. (vii) Any person who is a habitual offender under the Tamil Nadu Restriction of Habitual Offenders Act, 1948 (Tamil Nadu Act VI of 1948) or other corresponding Acts: (viii) If a prisoner was previously classified as habitual prisoner by a court he shall be continued to be classified as habitual prisoner whatever be the nature of offences for which he is later convicted.