….In any view of the matter, law is well settled that an Office Memorandum cannot have a retrospective effect unless and until intention of the authorities to make it as such is revealed expressly or by necessary implication in the Office Memorandum.” 43. If a Government is treated to be in the nature of a clarification of an earlier Government , it may be made applicable retrospectively. Conversely, if a subsequent Government is held to be a modification/amendment of the earlier Government , its application would be prospective as retrospective application thereof would result in withdrawal of vested rights which is impermissible in law and the same may also entail recoveries to be made. The principles in this regard were culled out by this Court in a recent of Sree Sankaracharya University of 33 Dated 4th August, 2015 34 [2007] 8 SCR 883 : (2007) 10 SCC 627 146 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Sanskrit and Others v. Dr. Manu and Another,35 in the following terms: - “52. From the aforesaid authorities, the following principles could be culled out: i) If a statute is curative or merely clarificatory of the previous law, retrospective operation thereof may be permitted. ii) In for a subsequent /provision/amendment to be considered as clarificatory of the previous law, the pre-amended law ought to have been vague or ambiguous. It is only when it would be impossible to reasonably interpret a provision unless an amendment is read into it, that the amendment is considered to be a clarification or a declaration of the previous law and therefore applied retrospectively. iii) An explanation/clarification may not expand or alter the scope of the original provision. iv) Merely because a provision is described as a clarification/explanation, the Court is not bound by the said statement in the statute itself, but must proceed to analyse the nature of the amendment and then conclude whether it is in reality a clarificatory or declaratory provision or whether it is a substantive amendment which is intended to change the law and which would apply prospectively.” 44. Applying these principles to the case at hand, we are of the view that the subsequent GO dated 4th August, 2015 cannot be read simply as a clarification and therefore cannot be made applicable retrospectively. The said GO has substantively modified the position governing seniority in the Industrial Establishments by reviving the earlier OM dated 4th November, 1992, and supersedes the s/ circulars dated 24th December, 2002 and 13th January, 2003, which were holding the field over more than a decade. Therefore, giving retrospective effect to the GO dated 4th August, 2015 would have catastrophic effect on the seniority of the entire cadre. 35 [2023] 7 SCR 366 : 2023 SCC OnLine SC 640 [2024] 10 S.C.R. 147 V. Vincent Velankanni v. The Union of India and Others 45. This Court has time and again dealt with the effect of altering the seniority list at a belated stage and how it may adversely affect the employees whose seniority and rank has been determined in the meantime.