32. Ms. Mayuri Raghuvanshi, learned Counsel appearing for some of the respondents submitted that the principle of ‘Merit-cum-Seniority’ does not mean that the length of service or seniority has no relevance. She submitted that the marks secured in the written examination and other tests are not indicative of merit as the marks may be obtained even without possessing other important qualities such as practical experience or by cramming. 33. She further submitted that the various decisions on the principle of ‘Merit-cum-Seniority’ as relied upon by the petitioners do not deal with judicial services and have not been delivered in the context of promotion of Civil Judges (Senior Division) to the cadre of District Judge. It was submitted that ‘Merit-cum-Seniority’, as stipulated in the 2005 Rules, should be read in line with the observations in All India Judges’ Association (3) (supra). 34. Learned counsel further submitted that the reliance placed by the petitioners on the process of promotion followed by the High Court of Jharkhand and High Court of Calcutta is absolutely misplaced, as the statutory rules therein are not pari-materia to the 2005 Rules. 35. Finally, Ms. Raghuvanshi submitted that her clients whose names have been included in the final Select List, had also participated in the promotion process undertaken in the year 2020. Although her clients had scored higher marks compared to the other candidates in the 2020 recruitment process, yet they were not promoted as they were comparatively junior to the other officers. She submitted that the process which was followed by the High Court applying the principle of ‘Merit-cum-Seniority’ has been followed consistently since 2011. She submitted that deviating from the process as followed by the High Court will result in inequitable and unjust repercussions, as her clients who lost out on promotions in the previous recruitment process because of being relatively junior would again end up losing out on their promotions in this process despite being relatively senior. 1098 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports F. POINTS FOR DETERMINATION 36. Having heard the learned counsels appearing for the parties and having gone through the materials on record, the two pivotal questions that fall for our consideration are as under: - I. What is the scope of principle of the ‘Merit-cum-Seniority’ in service jurisprudence; and II. Whether promotion of Civil Judges (Senior Division) to the cadre of District Judges in accordance with Rule 5(1) of the 2005 Rules and the Recruitment Notice dated 12.04.2022 issued by the High Court of Gujarat is contrary to the principle of ‘Merit- cum-Seniority’ as laid down in All India Judges’ Association (3) (supra). G. ANALYSIS i. Maintainability of the present Writ Petition under Article 32. 37. At the outset, a preliminary objection was raised as regards the maintainability of the writ petition under Article 32 of the Constitution, on the ground that the petitioners have an efficacious alternative remedy available to them under Article 226 of the Constitution. 38. In Mohammed Ishaq v. S. Kazam Pasha & Anr. reported in (2009) 12 SCC 748 this Court held that where Article 32 has been invoked, even where an alternative remedy exists, relegating the parties to avail the same is discretionary and a matter of convenience, and the same by no stretch restrains this Court to entertain the same.