This Court sought inputs from the Solicitor General on the proposed constitution of an Expert Committee for the purpose. This Court observed: “4 We have suggested to the Solicitor General that he may seek instructions on whether the Government of India would facilitate the constitution of an expert committee for an overall assessment of the situation, and if so, to place its suggestions on the constitution and remit of 2 “SIT” 180 [2024] 1 S.C.R. DIGITAL SUPREME COURT REPORTS the committee on the next date. Meantime the Solicitor General shall place on the record a brief note on factual and legal aspects so as to further the deliberations during the course of the next hearing.” 4. The batch of cases came up for hearing on 17 February 2023. This Court heard detailed submissions on behalf of the parties and reserved further s. In its dated 2 March 2023, this Court took note of the loss of investor wealth in the aftermath of the report by Hindenburg Research and recognized the dire need to protect Indian investors from unanticipated volatility in the market. This Court observed that SEBI is already seized of the investigation into the Adani group and inter alia directed: a. SEBI to continue with its investigation and examine the following non-exhaustive issues raised in the petitions: “a. Whether there has been a violation of Rule 19A of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules 1957; b. Whether there has been a failure to disclose transactions with related parties and other relevant information which concerns related parties to SEBI, in accordance with law; and c. Whether there was any manipulation of stock prices in contravention of existing laws;” b. SEBI to conclude its investigation within two months and file a status report before this Court; c. The constitution of an Expert Committee chaired by Justice Abhay Manohar Sapre, former judge of this Court. Besides its Chairperson, the Committee was to compose of the following members: a. Mr OP Bhatt; b. Justice JP Devadhar; c. Mr KV Kamath; d. Mr Nandan Nilekani; e. Mr Somasekhar Sundaresan [2024] 1 S.C.R. 181 VISHAL TIWARI v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS d. The remit of the Expert Committee was: “a. To provide an overall assessment of the situation including the relevant causal factors which have led to the volatility in the securities market in the recent past; b. To suggest measures to strengthen investor awareness; c. To investigate whether there has been regulatory failure in dealing with the alleged contravention of laws pertaining to the securities market in relation to the Adani Group or other companies; and d. To suggest measures to (i) strengthen the statutory and/or regulatory framework; and (ii) secure compliance with the existing framework for the protection of investors.” The Expert Committee was directed to furnish its report to this Court within two months. 5. This Court clarified that the Expert Committee and SEBI would work in collaboration with each other. The appointment of the Committee would, in other words, not affect the investigation by SEBI which would proceed simultaneously.