The post-mortem was conducted on 13.05.2016 at 06:30 PM. The cause of death was reported to be asphyxia due to hanging. Further, six ante-mortem injuries were reported which are as follows: “Injuries: 1) A contusion present over back of right hand ~ 3.5 cm x 3 cm bluish. 2) A contusion present over left ring finger over proximal phalanx palmer aspect, ~ 1.5 cm x 1 cm, bluish. 3) A contusion present over right leg~ 3 cm below knee~ 4 cm x 3.5 cm, bluish. 4) A contusion present over the left foot dorsal aspect ~ 1.5 cm x 1.5 cm bluish. 5) A contusion present over left thigh ~ 17 cm below groin, ~ 4 cm x 4.3 cm bluish. 6) Ligature mark: A brown parchment like hard ligature mark present over neck above the level of thyroid cartilage, obliquely extending upward toward chin, from behind, grooved at places. Maximum breadth ~ 4.5 cm on the backside. Peeling of skin evident in marks at places. Mark is situated 1.5 cm below tip of chin, 5.5 cm below tip of left mastoid, & 4 cm below tip of right mastoid, 10 cm below occiput. Mark is faint for ~3 cm on the right side. On dissection corresponding under the surface of skin is glistering white. Hyoid bone and thyroid cartilage intact. All the injuries are ante mortem and are of within 06 hours of death. Injury no. 6 is sufficient to cause instantaneous death in the ordinary course of nature. Metallic rings in each 2nd toe.” 1 CrPC 90 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 4.5. According to the appellants, the Police filed the closure report treating it to be a case of suicide. The appellants repeatedly continued to represent to the authorities for a fair investigation after registering First Information Report. All the complaints made by the appellants to the authorities did not result in the registering of FIR against respondent no. 7. All the complaints though were inquired into but were ultimately closed as a result of the influence exerted by the respondent no. 7. Till date, neither FIR has been registered on the several complaints made by the appellants nor a fair investigation has been carried out in to find out the truth. 4.6. Left with no alternative, the appellants filed writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of India registered as W.P. Crl. No. 197 of 2016 praying for the following reliefs: "10.1 That, this Hon’ble Court may be kind enough in issuing a writ in the nature of mandamus, certiorari of likewise any other appropriate writ commanding and directing the respondents to produce all the records related with the case of the petitioners for just and proper decision of this case. 10.2 That, this Hon’ble Court may be kind enough in issuing a writ in the nature of mandamus, certiorari or likewise any other appropriate writ, commanding and directing the respondent No. 8 to lodge a separate FIR or to take investigation of merg No.