As set out earlier, the cases against the petitioner span over six States. Insofar as the case in Kerala is concerned, he has already furnished sureties and there is only one case in that State. Insofar as Haryana is concerned, of the two cases, he has furnished sureties in one and in the other case what has been ed is Fixed Deposit Receipt (FDR) for a sum of Rs. 1,00,000/-. We do not propose to interfere 570 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports with this . The remaining States are Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Punjab and Uttarakhand. In these States, even though in the cases concerned, the bail has been ed, the petitioner is still in custody because he is unable to furnish sureties. 21. The Oxford Dictionary defines ‘surety’ as “a person who takes responsibility for another’s obligation”. Advanced Law Lexicon by P. Ramanatha Aiyar, 3rd Edition 2005 defines ‘surety’ to mean “the bail that undertakes for another man in a criminal case.” 22. Whether it is to get individuals, to stand as a guarantor for a loan transaction or as a Surety in a criminal proceeding, the choice for a person is very limited. It will very often be a close relative or a longtime friend. In a criminal proceeding, the circle may get even more narrowed as the normal tendency is to not disclose about the said criminal proceeding to relatives and friends, to protect one’s reputation. These are hard realities of life in our country and as a court of law we cannot shut our eyes to them. A solution, however, has to be found strictly within the framework of the law. 23. From time immemorial, the principle has been that the excessive bail is no bail. To grant bail and thereafter to impose excessive and onerous conditions, is to take away with the left hand, what is given with the right. As to what is excessive will depend on the facts and circumstances of each case. In the present case, the petitioner is experiencing a genuine difficulty in finding multiple sureties. Sureties are essential to ensure the presence of the accused, released on bail. At the same time, where the court is faced with the situation where the accused enlarged on bail is unable to find sureties, as ed, in multiple cases, there is also a need to balance the requirement of furnishing the sureties with his or her fundamental rights under Article 21 of the Constitution of India. An which would protect the person’s fundamental right under Article 21 and at the same time guarantee the presence, would be reasonable and proportionate. As to what such an should be, will again depend on the facts and circumstances of each case. 24. In Satender Kumar Antil vs. Central Bureau of Investigation & Anr. (2022) 10 SCC 51, this Court held that “imposing a condition which is impossible of compliance would be defeating the very object of release.” [2024] 8 S.C.R. 571 Girish Gandhi v. The State of Uttar Pradesh & Ors.