It was also observed that if the appellants were aggrieved in any manner with respect to the contract it was necessary for them to invoke arbitration clause. The company earlier filed the writ petition being W.P. No.261 of 2015 relating to the notice to show cause dated 28th February 2015. The company was asked to show cause why the allotment should not be terminated for not clearing the dues amounting to Rs. 10,28,52,918/- as then calculated plus interest to take defense upon certain facts in the written argument. I am not fully convinced and/or satisfied with the stand and/or explanation for several reasons and/or ground as stated hereinbefore. It appears to me that the company did not have the financial capacity to have the display of advertisement rights in 5 clusters and as such the company started creating problems on one plea to another since after obtaining the allotment of Sites. The company in one hand stopped the KMC to allot the said site to others and on the other hand itself stopped the due payment for 5 clusters. The KMC has thus suffered in both counts. Moreover the company has made an attempt to set up a bad example to others having interest to enjoy the advertisement rights. That being the position the KMC has no alternative but to blacklist the company for gross negligent action. The company is therefore debarred from participating in any tender to have the award of contract for a period of 5 years or till the date of exoneration of the company from the allegation of negligent, performance/action and also of nonpayment of huge amount or till the date of payment of entire dues with interest under the direction of any authority/forum/court whichever is later.” [2024] 8 S.C.R. 197 The Blue Dreamz Advertising Pvt. Ltd. & Anr. v. Kolkata Municipal Corporation & Ors. 13. In the meantime, it appears that in August, 2016, the appellant also filed a claim before the arbitrator claiming an award for Rs. 19,81,60,400/-. At the hearing before us, it was submitted that the arbitrator Justice (Retd.) Narayan Chandra Sil, who ultimately heard the matter, passed an award on 26.04.2024 awarding the claimant a sum of Rs. 2,23,14,565/- after excluding the set off amount of Rs. 78,03,435/- along with interest of 8% per annum from the date of the award till realization. This statement is reiterated in the written submissions. We were also given a copy of the award. The respondent has not disputed the said fact. Proceedings in the High Court: 14. The appellant also filed a Writ Petition, namely, Writ Petition No. 6616(W) of 2016 challenging the of 02.03.2016. The learned Single Judge of the High Court while setting aside the of 02.03.2016 held as under: “It is well settled by the above authorities that blacklisting is a civil consequence. The rules of natural justice have to be scrupulously followed. This denotes that proper reasons have to be given. The reasons, should have suggested that public interest would be affected if the writ petitioner was continued to be awarded contracts by the respondent Corporation.