35.3 At this juncture, I must also observe the overruling the in India Cement would mean that all s which are akin to the ratio of India Cement whether prior to or subsequent thereto, stand overruled irrespective of whether they are the s of the High Courts or this Court. Consequently, all States would once again start levying taxes on mineral rights under Entry 49 - List II and thereby bypass Entry 50 - List II so as to not be bound by any limitation that the Parliament had imposed by law on the power of the States to levy taxes on mineral rights. The circle would come around when Parliament would have to again step in to bring about a uniformity in the prices of minerals and in the interest of mineral development so as to curb the States from imposing levies, taxes, etc. on mineral rights. Why should that happen again? There would then be legal uncertainty which would cause adverse economic consequences including on mineral development in India. For the above reason also, the majority in Kesoram is not a good law and ought to be overruled to the extent that it holds that royalty is not a tax. Federalism in India: 36. According to Louise Tillin, in her article “Building a National Economy : Origins of Centralized Federalism in India” published by the Oxford University Press in 2021, India’s post-colonial Constitution introduced a new approach to federalism which has departed from the principle that federal and regional governments should each have independence in their own sphere of authority. According to Tillin, “the distinctive elements of Indian federalism were shaped at their [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1835 Mineral Area Development Authority & Anr. v. M/s Steel Authority of India & Anr. Etc. foundations by the desire to boost industrial development and lay the foundation for a national welfare state in a post-colonial future by preventing the consolidation of ‘‘race to the bottom’’ dynamics arising from unregulated inter-provincial economic competition.” According to her, Indian federalism was influenced by emerging debates taking place within India and in the international fora established alongside the League of Nations after the First World War, about the regulation of economic competition and the development of the twentieth century welfare State. According to her, the distinctive element of Indian federalism is the combination of a strong Centre and a substantial sphere of shared Centre-State jurisdiction. This thinking was shaped by nationalist politicians, industrialists, and labour leaders in the decades prior to India’s Independence and the significant political and economic factors that influenced the constitutional design of federalism in India. 36.1 According to certain scholars, India’s founding fathers opted for Parliamentary supremacy with a strong centre to prevent further secessionist movements. That, Jawaharlal Nehru’s preference was for a centralized model of federalism was to hold together the fledgling Union and concerted efforts to foster a national, civic identity rather than parochial identification with local or linguistic identities. Therefore, the Constitution uses the word “Union” instead of “Federation”.