67. We say so because, the very basic charge or in other words the genus or basis of the charge i.e., the loading charge in itself was not required to be paid. Thus, when the very basis or genus of the charge was not payable as per law then any sum which is collected in respect of the same will not be an overcharge but would be an illegal charge. Since the very class of the charge was not required to be payable by law. 68. Conversely, say for example, ‘A’ again booked certain goods to be carried by railway, and the railway charged ‘A’ loading charges for the goods, and this time loading of goods was involved in the consignment, but the railway mistakenly charged ‘A’ Rs. 100/- more towards the loading charges than what was required by the rate applicable. Here the basis or genus of this excess charge of Rs. 100/- i.e., the loading charges itself was payable by law. Any sum charged in excess of the loading charges as required by law would be an ‘overcharge’. 69. For another illustration, say ‘A’ booked the carriage of iron ore by the railway, however, instead of being charged for the rate applicable for iron, the railway by mistake charged ‘A’ for steel. Now the rate which is applicable for steel is permissible by law, but here since iron was being carried, the rate applicable for steel though permissible by law is not payable by law, as the consignment was not for steel. Thus, any sum paid although is in excess of what was required, and the charge towards which it was paid was also permissible by law, the sum cannot be said to have been paid in excess of what was payable by law. 70. Thus, for an excess sum to be an “overcharge” the sum paid must partake the same character as the basic charge, or must belong to the same genus of charge which was payable or required to be paid by law. Whereas, for an illegal charge, the sum must not have been payable by law. 1114 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 71. Another very fine but pertinent distinction between an ‘overcharge’ and an ‘illegal charge’ is that, an ‘overcharge’ is generally inter-se the specific parties involved and in its peculiar facts. Whereas an ‘illegal charge’ is illegal for everyone irrespective of the parties or facts. 72. For illustration, say ‘A’ booked 10 boxes to be carried by railway, however, he was erroneously charged for 12 boxes. Here the excess amount that has been charged for 12 boxes instead of 10 is an overcharge qua these specific facts for ‘A’ alone. If ‘B’ books 12 boxes to be carried by railway, the said charge which was an overcharge qua ‘A’ will not be an overcharge qua ‘B’. For that matter even if ‘A’ in a different consignment books 12 boxes and is charged for 12 boxes, it will not constitute an overcharge. This will not be an illegal charge because, it is not illegal for Railway to levy charge for 12 boxes ipso-facto (whenever a consignment is booked for 12 boxes, the Railway can levy that charge), but rather it is erroneous to levy charge for 12 boxes when in fact only 10 boxes were carried.