Also, in terms of direction contained in para 100.2, information has to be provided as to whether the Standing is being complied with by Investigating Officers. (ii) In terms of direction contained in para 100.7, it is directed that the Union Territory shall provide details of Special Courts constituted and the necessary steps taken for creation of Additional Special Courts and its stage. (iii) Compliance with dated 21.03.2023 passed by this Court: (a) In terms of the above referred , we direct the Union Territory to ensure that the prosecutors are stating the correct position of law as per the passed by this Court in Siddharth (Supra) and Satender Kumar Antil (Supra). (b) To circulate the passed by this Court in Siddharth (Supra) and Satender Kumar Antil (Supra). (c) To train and update the prosecutors on a periodical basis and provide details of the same. 6.1 High Court of Punjab and Haryana (Refer to Serial No. 28.1) 7. State of Chhattisgarh -Directions to be complied with: (i) In terms of direction contained in para 100.2, it is directed to provide the particulars of First Information Reports of cognizable and non-bailable cases in which the mandate of Sections 41, 1084 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 41-A of CrPC and Arnesh Kumar (Supra) has not been followed and consequently to provide the details of necessary actions that have been taken against erring police officers. Also, in terms of direction contained in para 100.2, information has to be provided as to whether the Standing is being complied with by Investigating Officers. (ii) In terms of direction contained in para 100.7, it is directed that the State shall provide details of Special Courts constituted and the necessary steps taken for creation of Additional Special Courts and its stage. (iii) The affidavit filed by the State has a tabular chart in which data provided does not divulge into whether adherence to the directions is being done as most columns are filled as ‘N/A’. We expect that detailed information will be filed in respect of all columns to appreciate the implementation of the directions. (iv) Compliance with dated 21.03.2023 passed by this Court: (a) It appears from the affidavit filed by State that there is no clarity as to whether any training has been carried out or not. Therefore, details of the same shall be provided and if no training programme has been conducted, then the same shall be done periodically. 7.1 High Court of Chhattisgarh -Directions to be complied with: (i) In terms of the directions contained in para 100, it was directed that the compliance of these directions will be indicated by way of a detailed model tabular chart. However, that has not been done. Therefore, a detailed tabular chart shall be filed for those directions that fall within the domain of the High Court. (ii) To inform on whether the in Satender Kumar Antil (Supra) is being applied to petitions under Section 438 of CrPC. (iii) In terms of direction contained in dated 03.02.2023, the High Court should inform on compliance for inclusion of Siddharth (Supra) and Satender Kumar Antil (Supra) in the curriculum of judicial academy.