This is impermissible having regard to the constitutional intent and scheme of Entries in the Lists. Therefore, royalty cannot also be a measure to impose tax on mineral bearing land. Hence, the State Legislature using royalty on mineral produce as a measure to impose a cess under Entry 49 - List II on mineral 1832 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports bearing land would indeed overlap Entry 50 - List II. This is because minerals are extracted by virtue of mining activity which is in exercise of a mineral right and taxes on mineral rights are envisaged under Entry 50 – List II subject to any limitation imposed by the Parliament. Therefore, Entry 50 - List II would have to be viewed distinctly from Entry 49 - List II. If so viewed, it becomes subject to Parliamentary law in the form of MMDR Act, 1957 and the rules made thereunder which would be a limitation on the power of the State to tax under Entry 50 – List II. Hence to get over the rigour of Entry 50 – List II, the States cannot resort to Entry 49 – List II. Effect of Overruling India Cement: 35. A survey of cases on the aspect as to whether royalty is a tax or not would reveal that Hingir-Rampur, M.A. Tulloch, Baijnath Kedia, India Cement and the two s of Patna High Court and Mysore High Court have clearly held that royalty is a tax coming within the scope and ambit of Article 366(28) of the Constitution. There are other s which have followed India Cement. This is having regard to the interpretation of the Entries namely, Entry 50 – List II in light of Entry 54 – List I and the declaration made in Section 2 of the MMDR Act, 1957 and the scheme of the provisions of the said Act. On the other hand, in HRS Murthy and Kesoram, it has been held by this Court that royalty is not a tax. 35.1 What is significant is between India Cement and the cases that have followed the said dictum and Kesoram is the of this Court in Kannadasan which marks a watershed in the entire controversy and in fact had put a closure to the same. The circumstance which led to the Parliament enacting the Validation Act was to validate all the incompetent levies imposed in the form of cesses and surcharge on cesses, licence fee, etc. on royalty which had been set aside by this Court. Parliament was constrained to enact the Validation Act having regard to Entry 54 – List I and Section 2 of the MMDR Act, 1957. This significant aspect has not been appreciated by the majority in Kesoram. Instead the in Kesoram proceeded on an imagined “typographical error” in paragraph 34 of India Cement without appreciating the reasoning therein for holding that royalty is a tax. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1833 Mineral Area Development Authority & Anr. v. M/s Steel Authority of India & Anr.