[...] It is a well-settled rule of administrative law that an executive authority must be rigorously held to the standards by which it professes its actions to be judged and it must scrupulously observe those standards on pain of invalidation of an act in violation of them. [...]” (Emphasis supplied) 89. The aforesaid leaves no manner of doubt in our mind that if the purported action of cancelling the tender is claimed to have been taken in view of certain technical faults in the same or even a change in policy the same ought to be clearly reflected from its internal file notings as-well, pursuant to which the purported decision was taken. 90. We have gone through the internal file-notings of the respondent on the aforesaid tender wherein the entire internal deliberations of the KMDA officials as to the tender for work have been recorded. In the entire records – right from the time the Notice Inviting Tender was being formulated till the issuance of the final Notice of Cancellation dated 07.02.2023, there is no whisper of any particular clauses of the tender that was floated nor of any conflict or technical fault in the same, as claimed by the respondent. 91. We are in seisin of the fact that although the internal-file notings mention about the policy change in the operation and maintenance of the concerned underpasses, yet a careful reading of the same reveals that the cancellation of the tender for work was neither due to any technical fault nor due to the policy change in the operation and maintenance of the concerned underpasses but was for altogether a different reason. 92. As per Note #91 dated 30.12.2022 of the file-notings, when the dated 01.12.2022 of the Urban Development and Municipal Affairs Department came to be passed whereby the maintenance was handed over to KMC, it was the Minister-In-Charge as the Chairperson of the respondent authority – who suggested that in view of the change in scenario the tender be cancelled. In the aforesaid note, the following has been recorded - “Recently maintenance of EM Bye pass has been handed over to KMC. Thus, in this changed scenario we may cancel the work ”. 93. The words “may cancel the work ” clearly indicate, that the respondent at that stage by no means was of the opinion that the [2024] 7 S.C.R. 597 Subodh Kumar Singh Rathour v. The Chief Executive Officer & Ors. tender was required to be cancelled, as no specific reasons had been assigned as to what effect the policy change had impacted the feasibility or practicality of the tender. This is especially because, none of the officials of the respondent suggested that the tender be cancelled, rather it was the concerned minister who did so. 94. In Note #95 dated 10.01.2023 it has been clearly recorded by the officials of the respondent that it was the competent authority of the KMDA that instructed to cancel the tender in view of the aforesaid change in the policy.