[2024] 11 S.C.R. 123 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. 121. This Court in Mafatlal did not independently conclude that Article 39(b) encompasses private property or justify the relevance of this proposition to the issues before the court. It was merely stated that this has been “repeatedly affirmed” by this Court. Even if this proposition of law is inverted and it is presumed that this Court observed that private resources do not fall within the ambit of ‘material resources of the community’, it would not impact the decision or the issue in question. The underlying values of economic justice which run through Chapter IV of the Constitution and the Preamble would remain intact and this Court would have reached the same conclusion. The tax collected was already within the “ownership and control” of the government, and in the context of a refund, there is no question of distributing any privately owned resources. We are therefore inclined to accept the submission of the appellants that the issue of whether Article 39(b) includes privately owned property was not a matter in dispute in Mafatlal. The single-line observation of Justice Jeevan Reddy in the majority opinion constitutes obiter dicta and is not binding on this Court. 122. Mr Tushar Mehta, the learned Solicitor General of India contended that certain observations on Article 39(b) have been made not only in the majority opinion but also in two other opinions – a concurring opinion authored by Justice Paripoornan and a dissenting opinion authored by Justice SC Sen. It was urged that this indicates that the issue of Article 39(b) was central to the dispute and the observations of the majority on the inclusion of private property are part of the ratio of the judgement. 123. Justice Paripoornan concurred with the majority view and accepted the submission of the counsel for the Union of India that Article 265 of the Constitution must be construed in light of the values in the Preamble and Articles 39(b) and (c). The observations were in the following terms: “304. […] The plea urged was that, if the assessee, is denied the refund, the State Government could retain the amount illegally collected, and it would amount to violation of the constitutional mandate enshrined in Article 265 of the Constitution. An equitable principle will not hold good against a constitutional mandate. On the other hand the counsel for the Union of India, Shri K. Parasaran, brought to our notice the following portion of the Preamble and 124 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Articles 39(b) and (c) of the Constitution to contend that Article 265 of the Constitution cannot be construed in a vacuo or isolation, but should be construed in the light of the basic principles contained in other parts of the Constitution — viz. — the Preamble and the Directive Principles of State Policy: “Preamble WE, THE PEOPLE OF INDIA, having solemnly resolved to constitute India into a Sovereign Socialist Secular Democratic Republic and to secure to all its citizens: Justice, social, economic and political: ***” Articles 39(b) and (c): “39.