Yunus v. Mohd. Mustaqim,6 a mere wrong decision is not enough to attract the jurisdiction of the High Court under Article 227. Thus, the petition of the respondents also failed to merit the exercise of the High Court’s supervisory powers and should have been rejected in view of the same. 19. We now proceed to consider the second relief claimed in the writ petition of the respondents, i.e., the challenge laid to the passed by the Inquiry Officer. It is well settled that decisions rendered by administrative authorities can be interfered with by high courts in exercise of Article 226 powers, however, sparingly. Recently, this Court in W.B. Central School Service Commission v. Abdul Halim7 while considering the scope of interference under Article 226 in an administrative action held that: “31. In exercise of its power of judicial review, the Court is to see whether the decision impugned is vitiated by an 6 (1983) 4 SCC 566 7 (2019) 18 SCC 39 [2024] 12 S.C.R. 857 Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai & Ors. v. Vivek V. Gawde Etc. Etc. apparent error of law. The test to determine whether a decision is vitiated by error apparent on the face of the record is whether the error is self-evident on the face of the record or whether the error requires examination or argument to establish it. If an error has to be established by a process of reasoning, on points where there may reasonably be two opinions, it cannot be said to be an error on the face of the record, as held by this Court in Satyanarayan Laxminarayan Hegde v. Millikarjun Bhavanappa Tirumale [Satyanarayan Laxminarayan Hegde v. Millikarjun Bhavanappa Tirumale, AIR 1960 SC 137] . If the provision of a statutory rule is reasonably capable of two or more constructions and one construction has been adopted, the decision would not be open to interference by the writ court. It is only an obvious misinterpretation of a relevant statutory provision, or ignorance or disregard thereof, or a decision founded on reasons which are clearly wrong in law, which can be corrected by the writ court by issuance of writ of certiorari. 32. The sweep of power under Article 226 may be wide enough to quash unreasonable s. If a decision is so arbitrary and capricious that no reasonable person could have ever arrived at it, the same is liable to be struck down by a writ court. If the decision cannot rationally be supported by the materials on record, the same may be regarded as perverse. 33. However, the power of the Court to examine the reasonableness of an of the authorities does not enable the Court to look into the sufficiency of the grounds in support of a decision to examine the merits of the decision, sitting as if in appeal over the decision. The test is not what the Court considers reasonable or unreasonable but a decision which the Court thinks that no reasonable person could have taken, which has led to manifest injustice.