Identify areas which were earlier forests but stand degraded, denuded or cleared and; iii. Identify areas covered by plantation trees belonging to private persons. 57. Pursuant to the same the Government of Goa constituted Sawant Committee with terms of reference as indicated in Para 5 of TN Godavarman case (supra) by dated 12.12.1996, the said Committee adopted the criteria (referred to herein above as then existing) which was also based upon the Shivanand Salgaocar’s case (supra). The criteria so determined was published in public notice dated 08.02.1997 and this was not challenged by anyone including the appellant herein. 23 (1997) 2 SCC 267 [2024] 1 S.C.R. 727 T. N. Godavarman Thirumulpad v. Union of India and Others 58. It would be apt and appropriate to note at this juncture that in the matter of Tata Housing (supra) this Court had an occasion to consider the said criteria and to examine as to whether the report of the Sawant Committee is to be accepted or otherwise and the question so formulated in that regard reads as under: - “11. Thus, the question which falls for consideration of this Court is whether the High Court was justified in accepting the Third Interim Report of the Sawant Committee and allowing the writ application on the basis thereof. For deciding this question, it would be necessary to refer to the Second Interim Report of the Sawant Committee in which it has laid down three criteria for classifying any land as “forest”. Relevant portions of the said Report run thus: “After the formation of the Committee, it was first decided to get the forest cover through NRSA, Hyderabad but seeing the time involved and nature of interpretation, it was decided to carry out the exercise through physical verification by the departmental staff only. Nature of interpretation means the satellite data gives the natural green cover which includes most of the plantation/seasonal crops such as cashew, coconut, areca nut etc. For the purpose of classifying ‘forest’ such growth cannot be considered. The Committee has taken the stand that for considering any area as forest: (i) 75% of its composition should be forestry species. (ii) The area should be contiguous to government forest and if in isolation the minimum area should be 5 hectares. (iii) The canopy density should not be less than 0.4. The above criteria which was in existence with the Forest Department, Government of Goa has been approved by the Government of Goa. *** Based on the satellite imageries, toposheets, the areas outside the government forests have been marked on the map and the forest officials have done the physical verification of such areas applying the above criteria. 728 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports *** The Committee has procured the maps of 1978 from the Town and Country Planning Department which have been prepared based on the aerial photographs of 1960 and toposheets of 1960. In these maps natural green cover has been shown but again it does not either speak about the density or the species composition….