8.6 Earlier, a two-judge bench of this Court, in the case of R. Srinivas Kumar vs. R. Shametha, (2019) 12 SCR 873, dealt with the submission of the wife that unless there is a consent by both the parties, even in exercise of powers under Article 142(1) of the Constitution of India, the marriage cannot be dissolved on the ground of irretrievable breakdown of marriage, by making the following observations: “6. Now so far as submission on behalf of the respondent wife that unless there is a consent by both the parties, even in exercise of powers under Article 142 of the Constitution of India the marriage cannot be dissolved on the ground of irretrievable breakdown of marriage is concerned, the aforesaid has no substance. If both the parties to the marriage agree for separation permanently and/or consent for divorce, in that case, certainly both the parties can move the competent court for a decree of divorce by mutual consent. Only in a case where one of the parties do not agree and give consent, only then the powers under Article 142 of the Constitution of India are required to be invoked to do the substantial justice between the parties, considering the facts and circumstances of the case. However, at the same time, the interest of the wife is also required to be protected financially so that she may not have to suffer financially in future and she may not have to depend upon others.” (underlining by us) 8.7 Another observation of this court on the same issue, in Munish Kakkar vs. Nidhi Kakkar, (2019) 15 SCR 169, reads as under: 1378 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports “18. No doubt there is no consent of the respondent. But there is also, in real terms, no willingness of the parties, including of the respondent to live together. There are only bitter memories and angst against each other. This angst has got extended in the case of the respondent to somehow not permit the appellant to get a decree of divorce and “live his life”, forgetting that both parties would be able to live their lives in a better manner, separately, as both parties suffer from an obsession with legal proceedings, as reflected from the submissions before us.” 8.8 The aforesaid s and observations were also followed by this court in the case of N. Rajendran vs. S. Valli, (2022) 16 SCR 498, and it was held that it would be in the interest of justice and to do complete justice to the parties that an should be passed dissolving the marriage between the parties. 8.9 In the case of K. Srinivas Rao vs. D.A. Deepa, (2013) 2 SCR 126, the wife had made scurrilous, vulgar and defamatory statements against the husband in her complaint to the women’s cell of the police. This Court speaking through Ranjana Desai, J. held that such statements cannot be explained away by stating that it was made because the wife was anxious to go back to the husband as the same is not the way to win the husband back.