List of Keywords Extra-judicial confession; Dying declaration; Eyewitnesses. Case Arising From CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No. 3524 of 2023 From the and dated 05.03.2013 of the High Court of Gujarat at Ahmedabad in CRLA No. 2436 of 2005 Appearances for Parties Rajat Bhardwaj, Mohd.Ainul Ansari, Manoj Kumar Goyal, Ms. Ankita M.Bhardwaj, Rishabh Goyal, Kaustubh Khanna, Advs. for the Appellant. Ms. Swati Ghildiyal, Ms. Devyani Bhatt, Advs. for the Respondent. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 43 Lal Mohammad Manjur Ansari v. The State of Gujrat / of the Supreme Court Abhay S. Oka, J. 1. The appellant-accused has been convicted for the offence punishable under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code (for short, ‘IPC’) by the Sessions Court. By the impugned , the High Court has confirmed the appellant’s conviction. The appellant has been sentenced to undergo life imprisonment. FACTUAL ASPECT 2. The appellant raised a plea of juvenility. By the dated 10th April 2023, this Court directed the Trial Court to hold an inquiry into the plea of juvenility. Accordingly, an was made by the learned Trial Judge on 8th April 2023. The learned Trial Judge held that the appellant was not a juvenile in conflict with the law on the date of the commission of the offence. After that, leave was granted, and the appeal was heard on merits. 3. The incident occurred on 6th September 2004. The accused was staying in room no. 3 rented to him by PW-3 - Alimuddin Amiruddin Shaikh. According to the prosecution, the deceased – Mohmed Akhtar Gafur Ansari, was also staying in the room no. 3, along with the appellant. There was a dispute between them about playing music. The dispute led to an altercation in which the appellant attacked the deceased. The injuries sustained by the deceased caused his death. The prosecution case is based on the evidence of eyewitnesses PW-3 to PW-9, extra- judicial confession by the appellant made to PW-19 - Mohammad Afroz and dying declaration made by the deceased to PW-24 - Mohd. Rafiq. Though PW-3 to PW-9 were declared hostile, the Trial Court and High Court have relied on certain parts of their testimony. The High Court has believed the testimony of PW-19 and PW-24. SUBMISSIONS 4. The learned counsel appearing for the appellant has taken us through the testimony of hostile eyewitnesses. By pointing out the findings of the High Court, he submitted that, firstly, certain statements made by the eyewitnesses out of context could not be relied upon by the prosecution. Secondly, the testimony of the said witnesses does not support the prosecution. Pointing out the evidence of PW-19, 44 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports he submitted that according to the witness, he was the appellant’s employer. According to him, the appellant made a phone call to him at 3.30 p.m. on the date of the incident and informed him that he had murdered his roommate. He pointed out that no investigation has been made about the phone from which this call was made.