Hon’ble Arun Mishra and Hon’ble Amitava Roy, JJ.) vide its in State of Haryana v. Maharana Pratap Charitable Trust (Regd).7 10. A five-Judge Constitution Bench (cor. Hon’ble Arun Mishra, Hon’ble Indira Banerjee, Hon’ble Vineet Saran, Hon’ble M.R. Shah and Hon’ble S. Ravindra Bhat, JJ.) was thereafter constituted. 11. Ultimately, vide the in Indore Development Authority v. Manoharlal [5-Judge, lapse],8 the controversy was finally put to rest. The conclusions in Manoharlal [5-Judge, lapse] (supra) are recorded in paragraphs 365 and 366. However, paragraph 365 being relevant for a decision here, is quoted hereunder: “365. Resultantly, the decision rendered in Pune Municipal Corpn. is hereby overruled and all other decisions in which Pune Municipal Corpn. has been followed, are also overruled. The decision in Sree Balaji Nagar Residential Assn. cannot be said to be laying down good law, is overruled and other decisions following the same are also overruled. In Indore Development Authority v. Shailendra [3-judge], the aspect with respect to the proviso to Section 24(2) and whether ‘or’ has to be read as ‘nor’ or as ‘and’ was not placed for consideration. Therefore, that decision 5 (2018) 3 SCC 585 6 (2020) 15 SCC 342 7 Civil Appeal No. 4835/2015 8 [2020] 3 SCR 1 : (2020) 8 SCC 129 [2024] 5 S.C.R. 967 Govt. of NCT of Delhi Through Its Secretary, Land and Building Department & Another v. M/s K.L. Rathi Steels Limited and Others too cannot prevail, in the light of the discussion in the present .” 12. Ironically, during the hearing, a controversy was raised by the respondents therein regarding the composition of the Bench in Manoharlal [5-Judge, lapse] (supra). A preliminary objection for recusal of the presiding Judge of the said Constitution Bench was sought on the ground that His Lordship was a part of the three-Judge Bench in Shailendra [3-Judge] (supra) wherein the correctness of the three-Judge Bench decision in Pune Municipal Corporation (supra) was doubted and by 2:1 majority, held to be per incuriam. It was contended that in Shailendra [3-Judge] (supra), His Lordship did not merely express reservations about the precedent i.e., Pune Municipal Corporation (supra), instead, His Lordship effectively annulled the by asserting that it held no legal value, departing thereby from established principles of stare decisis and judicial discipline. Rejecting the aforesaid arguments, a detailed was rendered by His Lordship in Indore Development Authority v. Manoharlal [5-Judge, recusal].9 The plea of recusal was declined, and it was observed that “accepting the plea of recusal would sound a death knell to the independent system of justice delivery where litigants would dictate participation of judges of their liking in particular cases or causes”.10 While the lead opinion was delivered by the concerned Judge, the four other member Judges on the Bench delivered a joint concurring opinion. 13. For completing the narrative, it is to be noted that the ball did not stop rolling with Manoharlal [5-Judge, lapse] (supra). By an dated 16th July, 2020 in Pune Municipal Corporation v. Harakchand Misirimal Solanki [Recall ] ,11 a three-Judge Bench (cor.