No. C. 1465 situated in ‘C’ Ward, Laxmipuri Kolhapur -416002 in the form of license to enter upon the said property in the capacity of the licensee of the owners for the sole purpose of developing the said property and selling the offices/premises / shops to the extent and in the manner stipulated hereafter and upon the terms and conditions agreed by the between the parties hereto and set out here below in this agreement. Subject to clause No. 2. the license hereby granted is irrevocable till the entire property is developed and all the premises constructed thereon are sold out. It is however, hereby expressly understood that the right of entry granted under this clause is for the sole purpose of developing the said property selling all premises (except those to be allotted to owners) including the shop/s basement/offices therein and common restricted areas or facilities as the case may be and such entry shall not be construed to mean that the owners have placed the developer in legal or physical possession of the said property. x x x 16. The developer undertakes to comply with and carry out all the legal and contractual obligations that may be entered into for the construction of the buildings and for the sale of the various premises in the said buildings. The developer further undertakes to indemnify and keep indemnified the owners from and against any action either civil or criminal suit proceedings, damages, penalties or any other similar actions which may be initiated, made or ledged by any person or persons by reason of the failure of the developer to comply with, carry out or perform any such legal and contractual obligations.” 25. In this regard, it would be useful to illustrate that in a general sense, an injunction is a judicial mandate operating in personam by which 144 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports upon certain established principles of equity, a party is required to do or refrain from doing a particular thing. On the other hand, a direction to pay money either by way of final or interim is not considered to be an injunction. An of injunction is normally issued against a named person and is addressed to the defendant personally and on his demise the cause of action would come to an end insofar as such a person who is since deceased even if it relates to a proprietary right unless his legal representatives are also causing a threat in which case the cause of action would continue vis-à-vis the legal representatives also. 26. Therefore, if the estate of the deceased becomes liable then the legal representatives who in law represent the estate of a deceased person or any person who intermeddles with the estate of the deceased and where a party sues or is sued in a representative character, the person on whom the estate devolves on the death of the party so suing or sued is liable to the extent the estate has devolved.