The word ‘partition’ used in Section 54 or 20 Rule 18, in my opinion, means that the partition is not confined to mere division of the lands concerned [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1937 Abdul Rejak Laskar v. Mafizur Rahman & Ors. into the requisite parts, but also includes the delivery of shares to the respective allottees. To elaborate further, the word ‘partition’ means actual division or partition by metes and bounds and handing over possession of the shares to the parties. 11. As an instance of law relating to partition one will have to refer to the provisions of the Prevention of Fragmentation and Consolidation of Holdings Act and the Land Revenue Act and the Rules. If the Collector thinks that actual division by metes and bounds is not possible on account of the provisions of the Prevention of Fragmentation and Consolidation of Holdings Act, he will have to follow the procedure laid down by the Act in such cases. In fact the Prevention of Fragmentation and Consolidation of Holdings Act, lays down procedure in such cases. Therefore, this is the law within the meaning of Section 54 C.P.C. relating to partition or separate possession of shares. The law relating to partition in Section 54 or 20 Rule 18 C.P.C. does not refer to the nature of the property to be divided. Therefore, Section 54 C.P.C., in my opinion, does not enable the Deputy Commissioner, to decide the question as to whether the agricultural land in question is impartible or partible. That is the duty of the Civil Court and not of the Deputy Commissioner. 12. This Court, in the decision in Ramachandra Srinivasa Kulkarni v. Ramakrishna Krishna Kulkarni [1967 (1) Mys. L.J. 97.] has clearly stated: “But the made by the Collector in the case before us concerned itself with an objection to the partition which was directed by the Civil Court. That objection has been raised before the Executing Court and had been over-ruled. An appeal from that had also been dismissed. All that the Collector had, therefore, to do was to proceed to make a partition and, it was entirely beyond his competence when making a partition under Section 57 of the Code of Civil Procedure, to listen to an objection which had been repelled by the Civil Court which had the competence to adjudicate upon it.” 1938 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports Hence, it is clear that it is not within the jurisdiction of the Deputy Commissioner to consider the question as to whether the lands are partible or impartible. That is the sole and exclusive jurisdiction of the Civil Courts. The nature of the property viz. whether it is partible or impartible, is not covered by the phrase ‘the law for the time being in force, relating to partition’ as occurring in Section 54 C.P.C. Therefore, the passed by the Collector in the previous execution that the lands being sanadi lands could not be partitioned, is also without jurisdiction. It is a nullity in the eye of law.