1481 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. before law guaranteed by Article 14 and to the prohibition of discrimination guaranteed by Article 15(1). Promotion to selection post is covered by Article 16(1) and (2). 29. The power to make reservation, which is conferred on the State, under Article 16(4) can be exercised by the State in a proper case not only by providing for reservation of appointments but also by providing for reservation of selection posts. In providing for reservation of appointments or posts under Article 16(4) the State has to take into consideration the claims of the Backward Classes consistently with the maintenance of the efficiency of administration. It must not be forgotten that the efficiency of administration is of such paramount importance that it would be unwise and impermissible to make any reservation at the cost of efficiency of administration. (General Manager, S. Rly. v. Rangachari [AIR 1962 SC 36 : (1962) 2 SCR 586] .) The present case is not one of reservation of posts by promotion. 30. Under Article 16(1) equality of opportunity of employment means equality as between members of the same class of employees and not equality between members of separate, independent class. The Roadside Station Masters and Guards are recruited separately, trained separately and have separate avenues of promotion. The Station Masters claimed equality of opportunity for promotion vis-à-vis the guards on the ground that they were entitled to equality of opportunity. It was said the concept of equality can have no existence except with reference to matters which are common as between individuals, between whom equality is predicated. The Roadside Station Masters and Guards were recruited separately. Therefore, the two form distinct and separate classes and there is no scope for predicating equality or inequality of opportunity in matters of promotion. (See All India Station Masters and Assistant Station Masters’ Association v. General Manager, Central Railway [AIR 1960 SC 384 : (1960) 2 SCR 311].) The present case is not to create separate avenues of promotion for these persons.” 1482 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 65. It could thus be seen that in the opinion of Ray, C.J., Articles 14, 15 and 16 form part of a string of constitutional rights guaranteed by it, which supplement each other. His Lordship observed that Article 16, which ensures to all citizens equality of opportunity in matters relating to employment is an incident of guarantee of equality contained in Article 14. In turn, Article 16(1) gives effect to Article 14. Both Articles 14 and 16(1) permit reasonable classification having a nexus with the objects to be achieved. 66. Referring to the of this Court in the case of State of Gujarat v. Shri Ambica Mills Ltd., Ahmedabad,7 His Lordship explained the reasonable classification to be one which includes all who are similarly situated and none who are not. He further observed that discrimination is the essence of classification, and that equality is violated if it rests on an unreasonable basis.