II. The suit for recovery of money was instituted by the original plaintiff against the original defendants without obtaining the consent of the BIFR, as mandated by Section 22 of the 1985 Act. III. Despite the statutory bar under Section 22 against the institution of a suit for the recovery of money, the trial court decided the suit and decreed it. Even the High Court in the impugned failed to decide the issue of lack of jurisdiction of the trial court in deciding the suit. 25. The learned senior counsel further submitted that the contention of the original plaintiff that the statutory bar under Section 22 of the 1985 Act applies only against a recognized creditor and such debts as are acknowledged before the BIFR during the pendency of the reference application is not the correct understanding of the law and is against the beneficial object of the Act. It was contended that the reliance placed by the original plaintiff on the decision of the Delhi High Court in Sunil Mittal Properties of Shree Shyam Packaging Industries v. M/s LML Ltd. reported in (2011) 123 DRJ 249 is misplaced as the said decision failed to consider the law settled by this Court in Bhoruka Textiles (supra) and thus could be termed as per incuriam. 336 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 26. One another submission made by the learned senior counsel was that out of the total claim put forward by the original plaintiff before the trial court, only the amount of Rs 55,710/- could have been recognized as delayed payment. It was submitted that the deductions made by the original defendants towards liquidated damages and penalty while remitting the payment to the original plaintiff could not have been classified as delayed payment for the purpose of computation of interest under the 1993 Act and the interest could only have been claimed on the undisputed and agreed upon sum under the contract. 27. It was argued that the liability, if any, of the original defendants to pay interest on the amount of Rs 4,89,919.99/- should be limited from the date of the impugned , wherein the High Court while partially modifying the decree awarded by the trial court, awarded the amount as above in favour of the original plaintiff for the first time. 28. It was also argued that the High Court erred in interfering with the exercise of discretion by the trial court in awarding 12% pendente lite interest in favour of the original plaintiff. 29. The learned senior counsel further submitted that the original plaintiff had the option of taking recourse to the mechanism prescribed under Section 6 of the 1993 Act which provides for making a reference of any dispute to the Industry Facilitation Council for acting as an arbitrator or a conciliator. However, by consciously approaching the civil court by way of a suit for recovery of money despite the jurisdictional bar contained under Section 22 of the Act, the original plaintiff must now face the consequences of approaching a non-jurisdictional forum.