[Paras 54.4 and 54.5] – [Per Hrishikesh Roy, J. (dissenting)] All unilateral appointments must not be declared void by way of a declaration of this Court – The 2015 Amendment in s.12(5) itself provides for a specific waiver i.e. (a) an express consent in writing and (b) the consent must be obtained after the dispute has arisen – Therefore, it is abundantly clear that an agreement between the parties (provided it satisfies the specific waiver requirements u/s.12(5)) can effectively cure any concerns about impartiality or independence in such cases – Adequate safeguards are provided within the Arbitration Act to ensure a level playing field – A search within the provisions of the Arbitration Act should first be made – The obligations of fair treatment should be grounded in the Arbitration Act rather than in the principles of Constitutional or administrative law – The choice of the parties in the agreement should not be disregarded without compelling reasons, through judicial intervention especially when the Arbitration Act provides clear remedies u/ss.12, 13, 14, and 15 of the Arbitration Act – It is only when there is a complete lack of consensus between the parties that the Court’s interference u/s.11 could be justified. [Paras 41, 42] [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2175 Central Organisation for Railway Electrification v. M/s ECI SPIC SMO MCML (JV) A Joint Venture Company Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 – Whether the principle of equal treatment of parties applies at the stage of the appointment of arbitrators: Held: [Per Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI for himself and J.B. Pardiwala and Manoj Misra, JJ.] Independence and impartiality of arbitral proceedings and equality of parties are concomitant principles – The independence and impartiality of arbitral proceedings can be effectively enforced only if the parties can participate equally at all stages of an arbitral process – Therefore, the principle of equal treatment of parties applies at all stages of arbitral proceedings, including the stage of the appointment of arbitrators. [Para 75] – [Per Pamidighantam Sri Narasimha, J. (concurring)] The text and the context of Section 18 as is evident from the scheme of the Act eschews application of Section 18 at the time of appointment – This is clear through two factors: first, through the placement of Section 18 in Chapter V, on ‘Conduct of arbitral proceedings’, which comes after Chapter III on ‘Composition of arbitral tribunal’; and second, through the wording of Section 18, which makes it clear that the obligation to treat the parties with equality is on the arbitral tribunal, rather than the parties to the arbitration agreement – The later portion of Section 18, which mandates that “each party shall be given a full opportunity to present his case”, further fortifies this view. [Para 54.3] – [Per Hrishikesh Roy, J. (concurring)] The principle of equality u/s.18 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act,1996 applies at all stages of the proceedings including the stage of appointment of arbitrators – The Arbitration Act does not provide special or different treatment to government or government undertakings involved in arbitration.