III. Discretionary Nature of Granting Specific Performance 19. The relief of specific performance under the Specific Relief Act, 1963, is discretionary in nature. Section 20 of the Act (applicable to this case as it predates the 2018 amendment) explicitly stated that the court is not bound to grant such relief merely because it is lawful to do so. The discretion must be exercised judiciously and based on sound principles, ensuring that granting specific performance is just and equitable in the circumstances of the case. 20. In the present case, several factors weigh against granting specific performance. The agreement to sell was incomplete and unenforceable against Defendant Nos. 6 to 8, who held a majority share in the property; enforcing such an agreement would be inequitable. The [2024] 9 S.C.R. 961 Janardan Das & Ors. v. Durga Prasad Agarwalla & Ors. plaintiffs failed to demonstrate readiness and willingness to perform their obligations and did not take necessary steps to secure the consent of all co-owners. Granting specific performance would unfairly prejudice the defendants, especially Defendant Nos. 6 to 8, who never consented to the sale to the plaintiffs. Furthermore, the plaintiffs can be adequately compensated by a refund of the earnest money with interest; there is no evidence to suggest that monetary compensation would not suffice. 21. Section 20 of the Specific Relief Act, 1963 prior to amendment by Act No. 18 of 2018 which was brought into effect w.e.f. 1.10.2018 categorically provided that the relief of specific performance is discretionary in nature and the court is not bound to grant such relief merely because it is lawful to do so. But the discretion of the court has to be on sound and reasonable principles. 22. In the present case, the plaintiffs have sought specific performance of the agreement dated 06.06.1993 whereunder the sale deed was to be executed before 30.09.1993 after obtaining the consent of the sisters (Defendant Nos. 6 to 8) as they had not joined the agreement. However, all the co-owners of the property transferred the suit property in favour of the appellants vide sale deed dated 27.09.1993 for a consideration of Rs. 4,20,000/-. The appellants are the bona fide purchasers in good faith of the suit property for valuable consideration. Therefore, once they have acquired the rights in the property way back on 27.09.1993, there was no justification to disturb the said sale deed by decreeing the suit for specific performance of the agreement dated 06.06.1993 which was not even signed by all the co-owners specially the three sisters (Defendant Nos. 9 to 11). The aforesaid sale deed was not even challenged though it had come into existence at the time of filing of the suit for specific performance, therefore, when the Trial Court had exercised its discretion not to decree the suit for specific performance, it was not open for the appellate court to decree it affecting the rights of the bona fide purchasers i.e. the appellants. 23. In conclusion, considering the discretionary nature of the relief and the principles governing its exercise, we find that granting specific performance in this case would be neither just nor equitable.