It is claimed in the pleadings that she is a prominent figure in the Telangana statehood movement. She holds a Bachelor’s degree in Engineering and a Master’s degree in Sciences. She has also served as the National Commissioner of Bharat Scouts and Guides since 2005 amongst many other achievements mentioned in the pleadings. 66. It is heartening to note that the applicant Smt. K. Kavitha, is a highly qualified and well-accomplished [2024] 8 S.C.R. 723 Kalvakuntla Kavitha v. Directorate of Enforcement person, having made significant contributions to politics and social work as enlisted by her in her pleadings. The same were not disputed by the investigating agencies. Her educational qualification and the activities, she has enlisted for the betterment of society in the State of Telangana are essentially, one side of herself and is impressive. However, while deciding the present bail applications, though this Court may appreciate these accomplishments, it cannot lose sight of serious allegations levelled by the prosecution and the evidences collected during the course of investigation and presented before this Court, which prima facie reveal her role in the offence in question. 67. Furthermore, as far as benefit of proviso to Section 45 is concerned, when it is the case of applicant herself that she is a well educated and accomplished woman, who has remained Member of Parliament, Member of Legislative Council, etc., this Court is bound to keep in mind the observations of the Hon’ble Apex Court in case of Saumya Chaurasia (supra). The material collected by the Directorate of Enforcement, which has been discussed in the preceding paragraphs has pointed out that the applicant herein was one of the chief conspirators in the entire conspiracy relating to formulation and implementation of new Excise Policy of Delhi. In fact, some other accused persons were working on behalf of the applicant and as per her instructions, as noted in the preceding discussion. 68. Thus, Smt. K. Kavitha cannot be equated to a vulnerable woman who may have been misused to commit an offence, which is the class of women for whom the proviso to Section 45 of PMLA has been incorporated, as held by the Hon’ble Apex Court in case of Saumya Chaurasia (supra). Accordingly, this Court is of the considered opinion that Smt. K. Kavitha is not entitled to the benefit of proviso to Section 45 of PMLA.” [emphasis supplied] 724 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 19. Day in and day out it is argued before us on behalf of the prosecution that merely because an accused has a special status in terms of he/she being a Member of Parliament or a Member of Legislative Assembly or a Minister or a Chief Minister, etc., they should not be given a special treatment and should be treated equally as any other accused. 20. However, the learned Single Judge in the present case, while denying the benefit of the proviso to Section 45(1) of the PMLA, comes to a “heartening conclusion” that the appellant is highly qualified and a well-accomplished person.