It must be remembered that the Court had occasion to hold so by way of dealing with the argument that nationalisation did not have a nexus with the word “distribution”. 121. The of this Court in Waman Rao v. Union of India, (1981) 2 SCC 362 holds that laws passed to give effect to Articles 39(b) and 39(c) could not be found violative of Article 14. There cannot be any quarrel. We are, in this case, called upon [2024] 11 S.C.R. 239 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. to deal with the case based on the actions taken by the appellant, which is a government company based on its powers under the Nationalisation Act, being challenged on the anvil of a later law made by Parliament, the validity of which, relevantly is not under challenge. 122. Distribution of coal is intended to subserve common good holds this Court in Samatha v. State of A.P., (1997) 8 SCC 191. The content of common good is itself not a static concept. It may take its hue from the context and the times in which the matter falls for consideration by the Court. If Parliament has intended that State monopolies even if it be in the matter of distribution must come under the anvil of the new economic regime, it cannot be found flawed by the Court on the ground that subjecting the State monopoly would detract from the common good which the earlier Nationalisation Act when it was enacted, undoubtedly, succeeded in subserving. We see no reason to hold that a State monopoly being run through the medium of a government company, even for attaining the goals in the Directive Principles, will go outside the purview of the Act.” Ultimately, in paragraph 130, it was opined by this Court that there was no merit in the contention of the appellants therein that the Competition Act would not apply to them for the reason that they were governed by the Nationalisation Act. 13.6 Thus, under Article 39(b), there could be policies made by the State towards securing the ownership and control over material resources of the community so as to distribute as best to subserve the common good. However, as discussed above this need not be only by way of a legislation, it could also be by acting under the extant legislations which would envisage a policy having the letter and spirit of Article 39(b). In case there is any enactment made in the context of Article 39(b), in such an event, the same cannot be assailed on the touchstone of Articles 14 or 19, in view of Article 31C of the 240 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Constitution. In my view, this bar under Article 31C, inter alia, is in to achieve the salutary object of clause (c) of Article 39 which envisages that the operation of the economic system does not result in the concentration of wealth as means of production to the common detriment.