Under Article 144 all authorities, civil and judicial, in the territory of India — and that would include High Courts as well — shall act in aid of the Supreme Court.” (Emphasis added) A High Court is constitutionally independent of the Supreme Court of India and is not subordinate to this Court. This Court has dealt with the issue of jurisdiction of the High Courts in the case of L. Chandra Kumar v. Union of India & Ors13. The relevant part of paragraph 78 and paragraph 79 read thus: “78. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. We, therefore, hold that the power of judicial review over legislative action vested in the High Courts under Article 226 and in this Court under Article 32 of the Constitution is an integral and essential feature of the Constitution, constituting part of its basic structure. Ordinarily, therefore, the power of High Courts and the Supreme Court to test the constitutional validity of legislations can never be ousted or excluded. 79. We also hold that the power vested in the High Courts to exercise judicial superintendence over the decisions of all courts and tribunals within their respective jurisdictions is also part of the basic structure of the Constitution. This is because a situation where the High Courts are divested of all other judicial functions apart from that of constitutional interpretation, is equally to be avoided.” (Emphasis added) 24. The power of the High Court under Article 227 of the Constitution to have judicial superintendence over all the Courts within its jurisdiction will include the power to stay the proceedings before such Courts. By a blanket direction in the exercise of power under Article 142 of the Constitution of India, this Court cannot interfere with the jurisdiction 13 [1997] 2 SCR 1186 : (1997) 3 SCC 261 976 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports conferred on the High Court of granting interim relief by limiting its jurisdiction to pass interim s valid only for six months at a time. Putting such constraints on the power of the High Court will also amount to making a dent on the jurisdiction of the High Courts under Article 226 of the Constitution, which is an essential feature that forms part of the basic structure of the Constitution. VI. Whether the Court should deal with an issue not arising for consideration 25. In the case of Sanjeev Coke Manufacturing Company,8 a Constitution Bench of this Court in paragraph 11 held thus: “11. ..............................................................We have serious reservations on the question whether it is open to a court to answer academic or hypothetical questions on such considerations, particularly so when serious constitutional issues are involved. We (Judges) are not authorised to make disembodied pronouncements on serious and cloudy issues of constitutional policy without battle lines being properly drawn. Judicial pronouncements cannot be immaculate legal conceptions. It is but right that no important point of law should be decided without a proper lis between parties properly ranged on either side and a crossing of the swords.