Pvt. Ltd. & Others 21.9 The expression “immediately before the commencement of this Constitution” under clause (2) of Article 285 would mean that the property is liable or treated as liable to tax until the Union Parliament legislates to the contrary. One of the ways of interpreting this is that the property must have been liable to taxation even under the Government of India Act, 1935 in as much as if any property was not liable to be taxed under the said Act, in other words, if there was an immunity during the enforcement of the said Act then it would not have been taxed from the date of enforcement of the Constitution. It is also necessary to understand the meaning of expression “that tax” in clause (2) of Article 285 which would have a relation to its nature and character and not its quantum or rates. So long as the taxes remains the same, the State or local authority can always increase or reduce its rate, in accordance with law. The variation of the quantum or rate would not affect its power to continue to levy the tax so long as it remains “that tax,” in its nature and character. Thus, if the tax remains the same, it is only the Parliament which can prevent the continuance of levy of that tax by the State or local authority or by any law. This Court in City Municipal Council held that it does not matter whether the liability is imposed by one statute or other as long as liability is of a particular kind of tax. 21.10 Section 172 of the Act of 1959 categorically states that subject to Article 285 of the Constitution, the corporation shall impose, inter alia, property taxes assessed and levied in accordance with the provisions of the Act of 1959 and the rules and bye- laws framed thereunder. Sub-section (4) of Section 172 of the Act of 1959 states that nothing in the said sub-section shall authorize the imposition of any tax which the State Legislature has no power to impose in the State under the Constitution of India provided that where any tax was being lawfully levied in the area included in the city immediately before the commencement of the Constitution of India, such tax may continue to be levied and applied for the purposes of the Act of 1959 until provision to the contrary is made by Parliament. Section 172, in fact, summarises Article 285 of the Constitution in the context of levy of property taxes imposed 926 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports under the said Act by the Corporation. Section 173 deals with property tax leviable which is again subject to Section 172(1) of the Act of 1959. It includes a general tax, a water tax, drainage tax and conservancy tax. The said taxes shall be levied on the annual value of the building and land, as the case may be. However, the aggregate of the property taxes shall in no cases be less than 15 per cent nor more than 25 per cent of the annual value of the building or land or both assessed to such taxes.