115 M/S Bharti Airtel Limited v. A.S. Raghavendra (iv) who, being employed in a supervisory capacity, draws wages exceeding ten thousand rupees per mensem or exercises, either by the nature of the duties attached to the office or by reason of the powers vested in him, functions mainly of a managerial nature.” 19. The story begins with induction of the respondent into the appellant- Company on 22.06.2009. Perusal of the Appointment Letter of even date, which has also been taken note of by the Labour Court, reveals at the very beginning that the respondent’s appointment was as “Senior Manager(B2) - Sales” in the Company. 20. Clause 5.5 of the Appointment Letter provides as under: “Being a managerial cadre employee you will be responsible for the overall smooth and effective functioning of the department/ establishment/ office/ staff/ employees under you charge and will be directly responsible for the successful and timely completion of any job / work assigned to you or any person working under your control and supervision and/ or within the department/ establishment/ office of which you are for the tire being holding the charge You would adhere to the norms of office discipline. You would also be responsible to ensure proper and effective adherence to the norms of office discipline including working hours, systems and procedures by the staff/ employees working under your supervision and/or In the department/ office/ establishment under your charge.” [sic] 21. Coupled with the above, Annexure ‘A’ to the Appointment Letter discloses that the respondent had perks such as Special Allowance, Car Hiring Charges, Petrol and Maintenance, Driver’s Salary, Professional Body Membership(s) and Credit Card Reimbursement etcetera. 22. The fixed pay of the respondent was Rs.13,20,000/- (Rupees Thirteen Lakhs and Twenty Thousand), whereas the SIP was Rs.8,80,000/- (Rupees Eight Lakhs and Eighty Thousand), with the total coming to Rs. 22,00,000/- (Rupees Twenty-Two Lakhs) per annum. In the s of the Labour Court, the learned Single Judge and the learned Division Bench as also the material placed before us in the present proceedings, it is clear that even prior to joining the appellant- Company, the respondent, had worked in a managerial capacity 116 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports in another organisation7. The respondent himself described his position as a Member of the senior management cadre, in-charge of supervising the Account Managers in the four Southern States. Even the application made by the respondent seeking employment in the appellant-Company shows that it was for the position of “Head Sales Operations”. Further, in the said application, relating to professional experience, he disclosed that he was Regional Manager South – Graphic Communication Group in Kodak India Private Limited from June, 2007 till the date of making the application; in Xerox India as “Corporate Account Relationship Manager”(2005-2007), “Manager Graphic Arts” (2002-2005) and “Account Manager – Government” (2000-2002); in Food World Supermarkets Limited as “Assistant Manager-Operations” (April, 2000-October, 2000) and in STM & Sterling Resort (I) Limited as “Assistant Manager Sales” (July, 1992–March, 2000). 23. The records also show that the respondent, in fact, performed a supervisory role over the managers and was the Assessing Manager of his team, which consisted of Managers in the B-1 & B-2 Levels.