At around 07:15 pm, he left her home. Her brother had parked his car in the open plot in front of her house. While the deceased was leaving the house, she, along with her husband, went to see off the deceased. She stated that the deceased sat in his car and left towards Prabhu Prem Puram Ashram. She claimed that she and her husband went towards that side. She noticed that a white Maruti car chased the car of the deceased, and after crossing the car of the deceased, it stopped in front of his car. She stated that seven to eight boys came out of that Maruti car and cordoned off the car of the deceased. When she swiftly walked towards that direction, she heard cries from her brother to save him. She stated that these boys forcibly threw her brother in the car. Some boys sat in her brother’s car and ran away. She stated that two boys on a motorcycle came, lifted her brother’s turban, and left the spot. 6. In her examination-in-chief, PW-26 did not state that she knew the accused earlier. She described the accused as ‘seven to eight boys’. She did not depose that a test identification parade was conducted. 1430 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Moreover, she did not identify the accused in the examination-in-chief by ascribing specific roles to them. She stated in the examination- in-chief that “accused are present in the Court through video conferencing”. She did not identify the accused who picked up her brother and the accused who sat in her brother’s car. She did not identify the boys who came on the motorcycle. 7. When she was confronted with her statement (Exhibit D6) recorded under Section 161 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (for short, ‘the CrPC’), she admitted that the following facts which she stated before the Court were not mentioned in her statement recorded by the Police: i. The deceased had parked his car in the open plot in front of her house; ii. She, along with her husband, had gone out to see off the deceased; iii. She, along with her husband, went towards Prabhu Prem Puram Ashram, in which direction the deceased left; iv. She saw a Maruti car of white colour that chased her brother’s car and, after crossing her brother’s car, stopped the car; v. She saw seven to eight boys coming out of the Maruti car who cordoned off her brother’s car, and she heard cries of “bachao bachao” from her brother; and vi. The boys threw the deceased in the car, and some of them sat in the car of the deceased and ran away. Therefore, the material part of the testimony of PW-26 (the so-called eyewitness) is full of omissions. These omissions are very significant and relevant as they relate to the most crucial part of the prosecution’s case. Hence, these omissions amount to contradictions in view of the explanation to Section 162 of the CrPC.