[2024] 7 S.C.R. 1735 Mineral Area Development Authority & Anr. v. M/s Steel Authority of India & Anr. Etc. Rule 27(1)(t) requires the mining lessee to pay to the occupier of the surface of the land such compensation as may become payable under the Mineral Concession Rules. Importantly, Rule 36 states that the boundaries of the area covered by a mining lease shall run vertically downwards below the surface towards the centre of the earth. Thus, the sub-soil activities are spatially restricted by the surface area. 317. The government can acquire surface rights for public purposes, including mining, and lease it to the lessee. The acquisition of surface rights by the Government takes place in accordance with the land acquisition legislations. For example, the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act 2013 empowers the Government to acquire land in any area for any public purpose.386 In case the owner is a private person, the surface right could be granted to the mining lessee by virtue of a separate lease deed. The rights to the surface will generally be concomitant with the rights to the minerals. 318. The issue of severance between surface rights and mineral rights came up before a Constitution Bench of this Court in Burrakur Coal Co. Ltd. v. Union of India387 in the context of the Coal Bearing Areas (Acquisition and Development) Act 1957.388 The Coal Bearing Areas Act was enacted by Parliament to establish public control over the coal mining industry and its development by providing for the acquisition by the State of unworked land containing or likely to contain coal deposits or of rights in or over such land. Section 4 allows the Central Government to issue a preliminary notification giving notice of its intention to prospect for coal with respect to a particular land in any locality. Once the notification is issued under Section 4, any prospecting licence or mining lease with respect to that land ceases to have effect. Sections 7 and 9 empower the Central Government to acquire whole or part of any lands in which coal is obtainable. On the publication of the declaration of acquisition under Section 9, the land or the rights in or over the land vest absolutely in the Central Government free from all encumbrances.389 Section 13 pertains to 386 See Sections 11 and 12, Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act 2013. 387 [1962] 1 SCR 44 : AIR 1961 SC 954 388 “Coal Bearing Areas Act” 389 Section 10, Coal Bearing Areas (Acquisition and Development) Act 1957 1736 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the grant of compensation for cessation of prospecting licenses and acquisition of mining leases by the Central Government under Section 4. Thus, under the Coal Bearing Areas Act, the Central Government acquires the surface rights to the coal bearing lands. 319. In Burrakur Coal (supra), the petitioners challenged a notification issued by the Central Government under Section 4 of the Coal Bearing Area Act for violation of fundamental rights.