52. It can thus be seen that the of the Full Bench of the High Court in Jai Singh II is based basically on the Constitution Bench of this Court in the case of Bhagat Ram, which clearly held that, until possession has changed under Section 24, the management and control does not vest in the Panchayat under Section 23-A of the Consolidation Act. It further held that, not only does the management and control not vest but the rights of the holders are not modified or extinguished till persons have changed possession and entered into the possession of the holdings allotted to them under the scheme. 53. In the JUR, except a cursory reference to Bhagat Ram in paragraph 11, this Court held that there was no dispute about the said proposition in the present appeals. 54. With great respect, we may state that when the of the Full Bench of the High Court rested on the law laid down by the Constitution Bench of this Court in Bhagat Ram, the least that was expected of this Court in the JUR was to explain as to why the Full Bench of the High Court was wrong in relying on Bhagat Ram. However, leave aside the cursory reference in the JUR in paragraph 11, there is no reference in the entire to Bhagat Ram. Though this Court in the JUR has referred to the Constitution Bench s in Ranjit Singh and Ajit Singh, there is not even a whisper about the Constitution Bench in Bhagat Ram, except in paragraph 11, though it had a direct bearing on the issue in question. 55. The Constitution Bench of this Court in Bhagat Ram in unequivocal terms held that the management and control does not vest in the Panchayat under Section 23-A of the Consolidation Act till possession has changed under Section 24 of the said Act. It further held that, the rights of the holders are not modified or extinguished till persons have changed possession and entered into the possession of the holdings allotted to them under the scheme. In the said case, [2024] 6 S.C.R. 929 Karnail Singh v. State of Haryana & Ors. the specific contention raised by the State that the requirements as contemplated under Sections 23, 24 and 21(2) of the Consolidation Act were already complete and as such, the acquisition had already taken place before the Constitution (Seventeenth Amendment) Act, 1964, was specifically rejected by this Court. Needless to state that, all these steps are subsequent to the assignment under Section 18(c) of the Consolidation Act. 56. In the light of these findings of the Constitution Bench of this Court in Bhagat Ram, the finding of this Court in the JUR that the vesting in the Panchayat is complete on mere assignment under Section 18(c) of the Consolidation Act is totally contrary to the findings recorded in paragraph 5 of the Constitution Bench in Bhagat Ram. 57. As already discussed herein above, except the cursory reference in paragraph 11 in the JUR, this Court has not even referred to the ratio laid down by the Constitution Bench of this Court in paragraph 5 in Bhagat Ram.