2.3. Personal hearing: The designated authority shall give an opportunity of personal hearing to the person concerned – The minutes of such a hearing shall also be recorded. 2.4. Final : Upon hearing, the designated authority shall pass a final – The final shall contain: a. the contentions of the noticee, and if the designated authority disagrees with the same, the reasons thereof; b. as to whether the unauthorized construction is compoundable, if it is not so, the reasons therefor; c. if the designated authority finds that only part of the construction is unauthorized / non-compoundable, then the details thereof – d. as to why the extreme step of demolition is the only option available and other options like compounding and demolishing only part of the property are not available. 2.5. Opportunity of appellate and judicial scrutiny of the final : If the statute provides for an appellate opportunity and time for filing the same, or even if it does not so, the will not be implemented for a period of 15 days from the date of receipt thereof – The shall also be displayed on the digital portal – An opportunity should be given to the owner/occupier to remove the unauthorized construction or demolish the same within a period of 15 days. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 727 In Re: Directions in The Matter of Demolition of Structures 2.6. Proceedings of demolition: The proceedings of demolition shall be video-graphed, and the concerned authority shall prepare a demolition report giving the list of police officials and civil personnel that participated in the demolition process – Video recording to be duly preserved – The said demolition report should be forwarded to the Municipal Commissioner by email and shall also be displayed on the digital portal. [Para 91] 3. The authorities hereinafter shall strictly comply with the aforesaid directions – Violation of any of the directions would lead to initiation of contempt proceedings in addition to the prosecution – If the demolition is found to be in violation of the s of this Court, the officer/officers concerned will be held responsible for restitution of the demolished property at his/their personal cost in addition to payment of damages. [Paras 92, 93, 94] Rule of law – Relevance of – Very foundation of democratic governance – Essential purpose of the rule of law is to prevent the abuse of power: Held: The law must be just and fair, and also protect the human rights and dignity of all members of society – At the same time, the essential purpose of the rule of law is to prevent the abuse of power – The rule of law is an umbrella concept to protect citizens against the power of the State – It is integral to and necessary for democracy and good governance – The processes enshrined in constitutional law, criminal law and procedure are facets of the rule of law and thus serve to regulate the exercise of executive power. [Paras 19, 30, 33] Doctrines / Principles – Doctrine of separation of powers, as envisaged in our Constitution: Held: Executive cannot replace the judiciary in performing its core functions.