8. With the assistance of the learned counsel for the parties, we have perused the evidence on record. 9. The prosecution case mainly rests on the ocular testimony of Madhusudhan Kulkarni (PW-12). Madhusudhan Kulkarni (PW-12) is the neighbour of the appellant and the deceased. In his testimony, Madhusudhan Kulkarni (PW-12) stated that he knew all the three deceased persons as well as the appellant. He states that the deceased persons as well as the appellant used to reside in his neighbourhood. He stated that deceased Shobha Masalkar i.e. the mother of the appellant used to do the work of cleaning utensils and she was also working in his house. He further stated that deceased Shobha had one daughter namely Aboli and that he had helped Shobha in the marriage of her daughter Aboli. He further stated that there used to be quarrels between the appellant on one hand and his mother and wife on the other. He stated that the appellant was intending to marry another lady and that he was intending to give 4 [2008] 11 SCR 93 : (2008) 13 SCC 767 : 2008 INSC 853 [2024] 10 S.C.R. 761 Vishwajeet Kerba Masalkar v. State of Maharashtra divorce to his wife Archana. He stated that, he as well as deceased Shobha were against this as the appellant was already married. 10. Madhusudhan Kulkarni (PW-12) further stated in his examination- in- chief that on the date of the incident, he was in his house and at around 12:00 Noon, he heard the noises of shouts and cries. When he came out, he saw deceased Archana along with her daughter Kimaya crying outside their house. He further stated that he asked them as to why they were crying outside their house. Thereafter, he came into his house. At that time, someone hit on his backside with some weapon. Due to which, he fell down and saw that the appellant was holding a hammer and was going away. Thereafter, he became unconscious. He further stated that he was admitted in the hospital for 6 days. He stated that he could not identify the hammer as to whether it was the same hammer used by the appellant for the commission of the crime. 11. The testimony of Madhusudhan Kulkarni (PW-12) is full of contradictions. Though, he stated in his examination-in-chief that the appellant was holding hammer in his hand and he was going away, the same did not find place in the statement recorded under Section 164 Cr.P.C. by Judicial Magistrate, First Class. He stated that he did not remember as to whether he was conscious or not when he was admitted in the hospital. In the next breath, he admitted that after the incident, some people came to his flat and he asked them to call the doctor there only. 12. It will be relevant to refer to the testimony of Dr. Abhijit Sudhakr Bele (PW-13) who was attached as Junior Resident Doctor in Sassoon Hospital. He stated that on 4th October 2012, when he was on duty, Madhusudhan Kulkarni (PW-12) was admitted in the hospital.