Explanation.- For the purposes of this definition the word conviction shall include an made under section 117 read with 110 of the Code of Criminal Procedure,1973 (Central Act 2 of 1974). ● 225. Classes of prisoners: (1) As mentioned in rule 217, convicted prisoners are divided into two divisions or classes, A and B. (i) prisoners shall be eligible for class A, if they by social status, education or habit of life have been accustomed to a superior mode of living, Habitual prisoners may at the discretion of the classifying authority , be included under this class on grounds of character and anstecedents. (ii) Class B shall consist of prisoners who ate not classified in Class A. (iii) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-rule (i), any person convicted of an offence involving gross indecency or exhibiting grave depravity of character may not be placed in class A. The Rules for the Superintendence and Management of Jails in the Bombay State, 1954 ● Chapter XLI, Section II: Rule 3: Habitual women prisoners; prostitutes and procuress and young women prisoners shall be segregated. 600 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports The Karnataka Prisons and Correctional Services Manual - 2021 ● 418. Classification of convicted prisoners – Convicted prisoners are divided into two classes as Class I (Class-A)and Class II (Class-B).– i. Prisoners will be eligible for Class I (Class-A) if.– a) They are non-habitual prisoners of good character; b) They by social status, education and habit of life have been accustomed to a superior mode of living; and c) They have not been convicted of.– 1) Offences involving elements of cruelty moral degradation or personal greed; 2) Serious premeditated violence; 3) Serious offence against women and children; 4) Serious offences against property; 5) Offences relating to the possession of explosives, fire arms and other dangerous weapons with the object of committing an offence or of enabling an offence to be committed; 6) An offence under the suppression of immoral traffic Act; 7) Abetment or incitement of offences; ii. Class II (Class-B) will consist of prisoners who are not classified as Class I (Class-A) iii. Notwithstanding anything contained in any person convicted of an offence involving gross indecency or exhibiting gross depravity of character may not be placed in Class I (Class-A). Rajasthan Prisons Rules, 2022 ● 681. Prison Industries and Work Programmes. Rule (22) Prisoners who have shown, or are likely to have, a strong inclination to escape or are members of a wandering or criminal tribe, even though eligible, shall not be employed on extramural work. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 601 Sukanya Shantha v. Union of India & Ors. Prison Manual 2021 for the Superintendence and Management of the Jails in Himachal Pradesh ● 26.69. State Government shall lay down dietary scales for women prisoners keeping in view their calorie requirements as per medical norms. The diet shall be in accordance with the prevailing dietary preferences and tastes of the local area in which the prison is located. Cooked food shall be brought to the female enclosure by a convict-cook accompanied by a warder and placed outside the enclosure gate from where it shall be taken inside by the female warder or a female prisoner.