The trial court therefore rejected the contention of the appellant that he had not contributed to delay in proceedings or that the case has been proceeding at a snail’s pace. However, in the very subsequent paragraph i.e., paragraph 80, the court observed that, in to avoid any delay and considering the time being taken by the counsel for the accused [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1081 Manish Sisodia v. Directorate of Enforcement in inspecting the “un-relied upon documents”, it had vide dated 18th April 2024 put a query to the prosecution if the entire “un-relied upon documents” can be provided to the accused persons in a digitized form. It further recorded that the ED accepted the suggestion that it would expedite the proceedings. However, some time was sought to consider the same. A perusal of the compliance report filed by the Assistant Director of ED dated 7th May 2024 which could be found at page 757 of the paperbook, would reveal that the Cyber Lab has informed that it would take 70-80 days to prepare one copy (cloning) of the data contained in the said unrelied digital devices. 46. It could further be seen that, though it has been submitted on behalf of the ED that hundreds of applications have been filed for supply of “un-relied upon documents”, the record would not substantiate the said position. Though various applications have been filed by different accused persons, insofar as the present appellant is concerned, he has filed only 13 applications in the CBI matter and 14 in the ED matter. It would reveal that some of the applications are for seeking permission to meet his wife or permission to file vakalatnama, to put signature on the documents, seeking permission to sign a cheque etc. Most of the applications are for supply of missing documents and legible copies under Section 207/208 Cr.P.C. Some of the applications are for inspection of the “un-relied upon documents”. It is pertinent to note that all these applications have been allowed by the learned trial court. It is further pertinent to note that some of these s were also challenged before the High Court wherein stay was granted. However, a statement was made on behalf of the prosecution before this Court when the first was passed that the said petitions filed under Section 482 Cr.P.C would be withdrawn. The said statement is recorded in paragraph 27 of the first of this Court. We may state that, when we specifically asked the learned ASG to point out any wherein the learned trial judge found any of the applications of the appellant to be frivolous, not a single could be pointed out. 47. In that view of the matter, we find that the finding of the learned trial judge that it is the appellant who is responsible for delaying the trial is not supported by the record. The learned Single Judge of the High Court endorses the finding of the trial court on the ground that the accused persons have taken three months’ time from 19th October 2023 to 19th January 2024 for inspection of “un-relied upon documents” despite 1082 [2024] 8 S.C.R.