1143 Sachin Garg v. State of U.P. and Anr. 8. It was observed in the under appeal that the applicant has got the right of discharge which could be freely taken up by him before the Trial Court. Mr. Mukul Rohatgi, learned senior counsel has appeared in this matter on behalf of the appellant along with Mr. Guru Krishna Kumar, while the case of respondent no.2 has been argued by Ms. Divya Jyoti Singh. State was represented before us by Mr. Sarvesh Singh Baghel. The main contentions urged by Mr. Rohatgi is that the complaint made against the appellant does not disclose any criminal offence and at best, it is a commercial dispute, which ought to be determined by a Civil Court. In so far as the allegations of commission of offence under Sections 405 and 406 are concerned, he has relied on a of this Court in the case of Deepak Gaba and Ors. -vs- State of Uttar Pradesh and Another [(2023) 3 SCC 423]. This decision deals with the basic ingredients of a complaint under Sections 405 and 406 of the 1860 Code and it has been held in this :- “15. For Section 405 IPC to be attracted, the following have to be established: (a) the accused was entrusted with property, or entrusted with dominion over property; (b) the accused had dishonestly misappropriated or converted to their own use that property, or dishonestly used or disposed of that property or wilfully suffer any other person to do so; and (c) such misappropriation, conversion, use or disposal should be in violation of any direction of law prescribing the mode in which such trust is to be discharged, or of any legal contract which the person has made, touching the discharge of such trust.” 9. The in Deepak Gaba (supra) was delivered in a case in which there was subsisting commercial relationship between the parties and the complainant had made allegations of a forged demand, for a sum of around rupees six and a half lakhs. On that basis a summoning was issued for trial under Section 406 of the 1860 Code. A coordinate Bench of this Court held:- “17. However, in the instant case, materials on record fail to satisfy the ingredients of Section 405 IPC. The complaint does not directly refer to the ingredients of Section 405IPC 1144 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports and does not state how and in what manner, on facts, the requirements are satisfied. Pre-summoning evidence is also lacking and suffers on this account. On these aspects, the summoning is equally quiet, albeit, it states that “a forged demand of Rs 6,37,252.16p had been raised by JIPL, which demand is not due in terms of statements by Shubhankar P. Tomar and Sakshi Tilak Chand”. A mere wrong demand or claim would not meet the conditions specified by Section 405IPC in the absence of evidence to establish entrustment, dishonest misappropriation, conversion, use or disposal, which action should be in violation of any direction of law, or legal contract touching the discharge of trust.