Use of the expression ‘not otherwise’, in Section 26 of the IPC, refers to contrary evidence or material which would not support the “reason to believe”. The definition extends and puts a more stringent condition in the context of penal enactment as compared to the civil law. Clearly, “reason to believe” has to be distinguished and is not the same as grave suspicion. It refers to the reasons for the formation of the belief which must have a rational connection with or an element bearing on the formation of belief. The reason should not be extraneous or irrelevant for the purpose of the provision. 31 1993 Supp (2) SCC 497 [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2393 Arvind Kejriwal v. Directorate of Enforcement 35. As explained in A.S. Krishnan and others v. State of Kerala,32 Section 26 of the IPC in substance means that the person must have “reason to believe” if the circumstances are such that a reasonable man would, by probable reasoning, conclude or infer regarding the nature of things concerned. Such circumstances need not necessarily be capable of absolute conviction or inference; but it is sufficient if the circumstances are such that it creates a chain of probable reasoning leading to the conclusion or inference about the nature of the thing.33 36. Once we hold that the accused is entitled to challenge his arrest under Section 19(1) of the PML Act, the court to examine the validity of arrest must catechise both the existence and soundness of the “reasons to believe”, based upon the material available with the authorised officer. It is difficult to accept that the “reasons to believe”, as recorded in writing, are not to be furnished. As observed above, the requirements in Section 19(1) are the jurisdictional conditions to be satisfied for arrest, the validity of which can be challenged by the accused and examined by the court. Consequently, it would be incongruous, if not wrong, to hold that the accused can be denied and not furnished a copy of the “reasons to believe”. In reality, this would effectively prevent the accused from challenging their arrest, questioning the “reasons to believe”. We are concerned with violation of personal liberty, and the exercise of the power to arrest in accordance with law. Scrutiny of the action to arrest, whether in accordance with law, is amenable to judicial review. It follows that the “reasons to believe” should be furnished to the arrestee to enable him to exercise his right to challenge the validity of arrest. 37. We would accept that in a one-off case, it may not be feasible to reveal all material, including names of witnesses and details of documents, when the investigation is in progress. This will not be the position in most cases. DoE may claim redaction and exclusion of specific particulars and details. However, the onus to justify redaction would be on the DoE. The officers of the DoE are the authors of the “reasons to believe” and can use appropriate wordings, with details of the material, as are necessary in a particular case.