It is only then that this exception kicks in - and this is when the plaintiff gets an unfair advantage over the defendant. Equally, under clause (b) of subsection (2), the hardship involved is again at the time of entering into the contract which is clear from the expression “which he did not foresee”. This is made clear beyond doubt by Explanation II of section 20 which states that the only exception to the hardship principle contained in clause (b) of sub-section (2) is where hardship results from an act of the plaintiff subsequent to the contract. In this case also, the act cannot be an act of a third party or of the court - the act must only be the act of the plaintiff. Clause (c) of sub-section (2) again refers to the defendant entering into the contract under circumstances which makes it inequitable to enforce specific performance. Here again, the point of time at which this is to be judged is the time of entering into the contract.” (Emphasis supplied) 13. In Sanghi Bros (Indore) Pvt. Ltd. v. Kamlendra Singh, reported in 2023 SCC OnLine Del 5528, Delhi High Court held as under: “101. In view of the above-mentioned s, it is apparent that the view taken by the Court is applicable to the instant Suit. The MOU in the instant Suit was executed in the year 1998. Since then, almost 25 years have elapsed. The performance of the contract would involve considerable hardship on the parties. The same is being said considering that a third-party interest has been created to such an extent that the revocation of that contract would lead to an increase in hardships warranting unjustified litigations. xxx xxx xxx 112. In view of the material which has been placed on record, it is indicated that a third-party interest has been created in the property against which the plaintiff is seeking specific performance. Such a circumstance [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1201 Parswanath Saha v. Bandhana Modak (Das) and Anr. makes it inequitable to grant and enforce the specific performance decree. The said observation is made to balance the interests of justice and equity for the parties involved. Hence, the decree for specific performance is not to be granted. 113. This Court is further of the view, that there will be undue hardship caused to the defendant as well as to the third party who purchased the property in dispute, in case the plaintiff is granted specific performance. Taking into consideration the facts of the case, this Court is of the view that the plaintiff may have been entitled to the relief as claimed for specific performance in the year 2004. However, presently, the plaintiff cannot be granted the relief of specific performance by this Court due to the defendant’s conduct of not adhering to the terms of the MOU entered into between him and the plaintiffs, creation of third-party interests and the other factors involved, as discussed hereinabove.” (Emphasis supplied) SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE APPELLANT (ORIGINAL PLAINTIFF) 14.