[2024] 1 S.C.R. 517 : 2024 INSC 36 Asma Lateef & Anr. v. Shabbir Ahmad & Ors. (Civil Appeal No. 9695 of 2013) 12 January 2024 [B.R. Gavai, Dipankar Datta* and Aravind Kumar, JJ.] Issue for Consideration Whether the dated 05.08.1991 (vide which application u/ rr.5 and 10 of Or.VIII, CPC was allowed by the Trial Court for pronouncement of against defendant no.2 in the suit) suffered from a jurisdictional error so grave that the decree drawn up subsequently is incapable of execution by the Executing Court and an objection that it is inexecutable was available to be raised u/s. 47, CPC by the respondents 1 to 3. Headnotes Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 – rr. 5, 10 of Or. VIII and s.47 – Respondents 1 to 3 had filed an objection u/s. 47 of the CPC in an execution application filed before the Executing Court by the appellants-plaintiffs – It was urged, based on the case pleaded therein, that the decree put to execution was inexecutable – The Executing Court allowed the objections and the execution application was dismissed – However, the Revisional Court directed the Executing Court to proceed with the execution of decree – Respondents 1 to 3 filed application u/Art. 227 against the revisional – The High Court quashed the passed by the Revisional Court and relegated the parties to the remedy of having their rights, in respect of the suit property, adjudicated by the appropriate forum – Propriety: Held: Appellants-plaintiffs had instituted a civil suit against the three defendants-K (defendant no.1), K’s son S (defendant no.2) and R (defendant no.3) – K filed his written statement on 05.12.1990 and inter-alia contended that suit was barred by s.331 of the Uttar Pradesh Zamindari Abolition and Land Reforms Act, 1950 – No written statements was filed by other two defendants – Appellants * Author 518 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports moved an application u/rr. 5, 10 of Or.VIII, CPC for pronouncement of against S (defendant no.2) and the same was allowed – K passed away and the suit against him was dismissed as abated – In the instant case, the trial Court is presumed to be aware of the fact that the written statement of K was on record or else it would not have fixed the next date for settling ‘issues’ – In a situation where maintainability of the suit was in question and despite S not having filed his written statement, it was not a case where the Trial Court could simply pronounce without even recording a satisfaction that it had the jurisdiction to try the suit and adjudicate the contentious issue(s), not to speak of pronouncing its verdict against S without assigning a single reason by treating the averments in the plaint to be admitted – The High Court rightly observed that even on pronouncement of against S, the lis remained alive as against K and decision on the objection as to maintainability could have resulted in a contrary decision – In the matter at hand, the filing of the written statement by K denying the averments made in the plaint warranted that the appellants’ claims be proved by evidence, oral and/or documentary, instead of decreeing the suit against one of the defendants in a most slipshod manner – As far as the objection available to the respondents 1 to 3 u/s.