For example, if interpreted in the above manner, the product of ‘hand sanitizer’ will be covered by both 193 “43. […] But this power stops with the denaturation of the industrial alcohol. Denatured spirit has been held in Vam Organic-I to be outside the seism of the State Legislature. Assuming that denatured spirit may by whatever process be renatured (a proposition which is seriously disputed by the respondents) and then converted into potable liquor, this would not give the State the power to regulate it. […]” 194 See Alcohol Denaturants-Specification (Second Revision), ICS 71.100.80 2028 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Entry 8 of List II (‘intoxicating liquor’) and Entry 19 of List III (‘drugs’). Since the Entry must be read widely, it will then cover everything relating to the production of the drug, substantially reducing the scope of Entry 19 because other products of the pharmaceutical and cosmetic industry will be covered by Entry 8. This interpretation will not be in consonance with the settled principle of interpretation that an interpretation that promotes the workability of provisions must be adopted. This interpretation of the phrase is also in consonance with the precedents that we have analysed in section E(iv)(a) of this . v. The correctness of the decision in Synthetics (7J) 116. Having interpreted Entry 8 of List II, we now turn to the decision in Synthetics (7J) (supra). This Court in Synthetics (7J) (supra) did not undertake an independent analysis of the meaning of the phrase ‘intoxicating liquor’. Without any discussion, the seven-Judge Bench readily concluded that the interpretation of the Bombay High Court and not this Court in FN Balsara (supra) is the correct approach. The only reasoning that this Court offered was that when the Constitution Bench in FN Balsara (supra) interpreted the phrase, it was not aware of the full potentiality of industrial alcohol: “74. […] It appears that in the light of the new experience and development, it is necessary to state that “intoxicating liquor” must mean liquor which is consumable by human being as it is and as such when the word “liquor” was used by Fazl Ali J., they did not have the awareness of full use of alcohol as industrial alcohol. It is true that alcohol was used for industrial purposes then also, but the full potentiality of that user was not comprehended or understood. With the passage of time, meanings do not change but new experiences give new color to the meaning.” 117. These observations are erroneous for the following reasons: a. The High Court in FN Balsara v. State of Bombay (supra) did not limit the meaning of ‘intoxicating liquor’ to its common parlance meaning, that is, potable alcoholic liquor. It also included alcoholic liquids which are not normally consumed as drinks. On appeal, the Constitution Bench held that a wider definition of intoxicating liquor is necessary to cover other [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2029 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons products which may be used as substitutes for intoxicating drinks.