Consequently, it was held thus: - “Till otherwise is not proved this evidence of age shows the incapacity of self earning and creates strong presumption that the suit land was purchased by the income of joint family. The defendants have also stated that on the suit land their father had in the year 1964 installed electric pump, dugged well and constructed gate, fencing and three rooms, which statement is unrebutted and that also clears that the suit land was joint family property. By the aforesaid analysis, it is clear that the suit land was purchased by the joint family in the name of Sitaram and after purchase suit land was the Joint Hindu Family Property which was purchased by father of the Defendants in the year 1963 jointly with his brothers in the name of Sitaram.” (underline supplied) 6. After holding that the suit land was Joint Hindu Family property the Trial Court continued to consider the question whether by the purchase of the suit land under Ext.P1/C - sale deed dated 04.06.1968 the [2024] 10 S.C.R. 715 Neelam Gupta & Ors. v. Rajendra Kumar Gupta & Anr. plaintiff–first respondent herein accrued any right in the suit land based on Ex-P-1C. In that regard, the Trial Court held that since the suit schedule property was purchased in the year 1963, in the name of Sitaram out of the income of joint family, it became the joint family property and there was no evidence to show that Sitaram was then the head of the family. Consequently, the Trial Court held that Sitaram had no right to sell the suit land under Ext. P1/C – sale deed dated 04.06.1968 and, therefore, the execution of Ext.P1/C was without any authority or right and, therefore, it is void. That apart, the Trial Court upheld the contention of the original defendants that the suit was barred by limitation as the plaintiff–the first respondent was aware of the possession of defendant in the suit schedule property adverse to his interest since 1968. Based on such observations, conclusions and findings, the Trial Court dismissed the suit. 7. Aggrieved by the dismissal of the suit, the plaintiff- first respondent challenged the and decree of the Trial Court in Civil Appeal No. 17 A of 2002 before the Third Additional District Judge, Raipur. 8. The First Appellate Court as per the dated 09.04.2003 dismissed the appeal and confirmed the dismissal of the suit. Nonetheless, on an analysis of the evidence on record, the First Appellate Court interfered with the finding of the Trial Court that the suit schedule property was a Joint Hindu Family property and held thus: - “The Trial Court had dismissed the suit by holding that the suit land was the Joint Hindu Family property and further that the suit was barred by time but I have after analysis of evidence held that the suit land was never the Joint Hindu Family property of the parties but have also held that the suit of the Plaintiff is barred by time.