vi. The O.P.No.1 to provide the cost of Rs.10,000/- to each of the complainant in the span of 30 days from the date of the receipt of copy of this & on failure to pay interest upon it at the rate of 9% p.a., till final payment. vii. No against O.P.No.4 viii. Copy of the be provided to both the parties, free of cost.” 5. Being aggrieved by the said , the present appellants, preferred the First Appeals before the `NCDRC’, which came to be dismissed by the `NCDRC’ vide the impugned common holding as under:- “8. The State Commission have brought out in their that the Joint-Venture Agreement (JVA) and the Irrevocable Power of Attorney (IPA) were prepared on 06.07.2013. As per condition No.15 of the said agreement, the builder had been given the authority to sell the constructed Units on the property. The IPA also authorised the OP-1 builder to execute the registered sale deeds etc. and receive the consideration. The State Commission, further, observed that the present appellants/OP-2 and 3 had issued notice, [2024] 8 S.C.R. 851 Akshay & Anr. v. Aditya & Ors. by which they claimed that they had cancelled the JVA and the IPA. However, the said notice was issued on 12.08.2014, which was much after the agreement made by the OP-1 with the complainants. The State Commission concluded that at the time of the agreement between the builder and the complainants, the JVA and IPA were very much operative. It is evident, therefore, that the appellants cannot wash their hands off from the matter, as it would result in grave injustice to the complainants consumers. 9. At the time of hearing also in these appeals, the learned counsel for the appellants was asked that in case the plea taken by them in the appeals were accepted, how shall it be possible to safeguard the interests of the consumer, who had invested in the said project, after looking at the agreement between them and the OP-1 builder. However, no satisfactory reply could be given by the appellants on that score. It is made out, therefore, that the interests of the complainants/ consumers shall be heavily jeopardised, if the plea of the appellants/OP-2 and 3 is accepted. 10. The appellants have referred to the s made by the Hon’ble Supreme Court in the case, Faqir Chand Gulati vs. Uppal Agencies Pvt. Ltd. & Anr., (2008) 10 SCC 345 and in the case, Sunga Daniel Babu vs. Sri Vasudeva Constructions & Ors., (2016) 8 SCC 429, in support of their arguments before the State Commission as well as this Commission. I, however, agree with the contention of the State Commission that these two s are not applicable in the present cases. In the said s, it was concluded that a landowner, who was supposed to be provided a portion of the devloped property after the development made by the builder, was a consumer vis-a- vis the builder. The issue in the present case is, however, different, as the present complaints have been filed by the complainants against the builder as well as the land owners/appellants.