Ltd. reported in (2024) 4 SCC 1, the counsel submitted that the settled position is that the referral court should leave it for the Arbitral Tribunal to decide whether the non- signatory party is indeed a party to the arbitration agreement on the basis of factual evidence and application of legal doctrine. He submitted that the Delhi and Bombay High Courts have consistently taken a view to refer the parties, including the non-signatories to arbitration in DLF Ltd. v. PNB Housing Finance Ltd. reported in (2024) SCC OnLine Del 2165, Moneywise Financial Services (P) Ltd. v. Dilip Jain reported in (2024) SCC OnLine Del 1896 and Cardinal Energy and Infra Structure Pvt. Ltd. v. Subramanya Construction & Development Co. Ltd. reported in (2024) SCC OnLine Bom 964 by relying on this Court’s decision in Cox and Kings (supra). 34. The counsel finally submitted that it is critical to refer even the non- signatory to arbitration since otherwise there is a risk that the non- signatory may not appear before the Arbitral Tribunal and disregard its award as beyond jurisdiction. In any event, the arbitrability of disputes qua the SRG Group can always be considered by the Arbitral Tribunal. 920 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports C. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT (JRS GROUP) 35. Ms. Anushree Prashit Kapadia the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the Respondent JRS Group submitted that while the JRS Group has no objection to the adjudication of disputes with the AMP Group by arbitral proceedings presided by the Sole arbitrator nominated by the AMP Group, the SRG Group cannot be a part of the arbitration proceedings as they are not party to the FAA. It was also submitted that the FAA contained the definition of “Parties” and the SRG Group is not defined in the FAA. The AMP Group and JRS Group are family members, whereas, the SRG Group is not part of the family. 36. The counsel submitted that the various clauses of the FAA indicate that the FAA binds only the AMP and JRS Groups. Clauses 2.1.4 and 2.1.6 respectively wherein the SRG Group is mentioned do not cast any obligations on the SRG Group since it merely states that “Parties shall execute…” & “Parties shall ensure...”. There is also no exchange of consideration with the SRG Group in the FAA. 37. The counsel submitted that neither the JRS Group nor the chartered accountant, Mr. Kalpesh Parmar have ever represented the SRG Group, acted on their behalf or received any authority or power from the SRG Group. There is no evidence on record or otherwise to the contrary. 38. The counsel submitted that Clause 8.1 of the FAA on “Entire Agreement” categorically states that the FAA superseded any and all prior oral and written agreements. Therefore, the case of the AMP Group that SRG Group was effectively a part of the negotiations and is privy to the transactions is inconsequential. 39. The counsel finally submitted that the AMP Group and JRS Group have fulfilled part of their respective obligations under the FAA and are in a position to fully execute the FAA without the presence or role of the SRG Group.