He submitted that no interference would be warranted. 22. Shri Raju submitted that the trial court and the High Court have specifically come to a finding that the appellant has delayed the pre-charge proceedings by taking recourse to the provisions of Section 207 of Criminal Procedure Code, 1973 (for short, ‘Cr.P.C.’). He submitted that more than hundred applications have been filed out of which many are under Section 207 Cr.P.C. These applications have been filed only for the purpose of delaying the trial. It is submitted that though in view of the law laid down by this Court in the case of P. Ponnusamy v. State of Tamil Nadu,2 such applications could have been filed only after framing of the charges, the same have been intentionally filed at a pre-charge stage of the trial, so as to delay the framing of the charges. He submitted that though the appellant 2 [2022] 15 SCR 265 : 2022 SCC OnLine SC 1543 : 2022 INSC 1175 1070 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports is entitled to file an application for discharge, the same has not been filed only in to protract the trial. He submitted that the totality of the circumstances would reveal that it is the appellant who has been protracting the trial. It is submitted that as the appellant himself is responsible for protracting the trial, he cannot be permitted to take the benefit of the same. 23. The learned ASG submitted that unless the triple conditions as stipulated under Section 45 of the PMLA are satisfied, no person accused of an offence shall be released on bail. It is submitted that, in the present case, this Court itself by the first has found that the appellant was not entitled for bail on merits and as such, the second condition stipulated under Section 45 of the PMLA that there are reasonable grounds for believing that he is not guilty of such offence, would not be satisfied in the present case. 24. The learned ASG further submitted that the appellant is a very influential person having occupied the office of Deputy Chief Minister of Delhi when the crime was committed. He submitted that if the appellant is released on bail, there is every possibility of him influencing the witnesses or tampering with the evidence. 25. Dr. Singhvi, in rejoinder, has submitted that the contention that the trial is being delayed due to the applications being filed by the appellant under Section 207 Cr.P.C. is totally incorrect. He submitted that the said applications were required to be filed since the prosecution had not placed on record the documents exculpating the accused persons by placing the same in the category of “un-relied upon documents”. He submitted that in to avail the right of a fair trial and in adherence to the principles of natural justice as encapsulated in Section 207 Cr.P.C., the appellant was forced to file such applications. However, each of these applications were vehemently opposed by the prosecution. It is submitted that the said material ought to have been placed on record by the prosecution themselves, however, for the reasons best known to the prosecution, they have not done so.