Instead, while the conciliation proceedings were still pending before the District Labour Officer, who has been impleaded as respondent No.11 herein and the same did not bear any positive result instead of seeking their remedies under the ID Act, the respondents continued to press the writ petition filed by them. 4 For short ‘the ID Act’ [2024] 1 S.C.R. 1241 Ernakulam Regional Cooperative Milk Producers Union Ltd. Etc. v. Nithu & Ors. Etc. 11. Despite a specific plea taken by the appellant-Society in its counter affidavit filed in response to the writ petition, as pointed out by Mr. C.U. Singh, learned Senior counsel appearing for the appellant-Society, that the writ petitioners were engaged purely on a casual basis and that they were nominated from amongst the members of the Apex Cooperative Society (APCOS) and the terms and conditions of the Circulars issued by the appellant-Society had made it abundantly clear that the nominees would not have any right of permanent employment, such a plea did not find favour with the High Court. Further, the appellant-Society had specifically averred in its counter affidavit that as none of the writ petitioners had worked for over 200 days in a calendar year, even otherwise, they were not entitled to claim permanent employment. 12. In our opinion, all the aforesaid questions would fall in the realm of disputed questions of fact that would have required evidence to be lead and proper assessment and adjudication before an appropriate authority which in the instant case, even as per the respondents-writ petitioners, would have been a remedy available under the ID Act. This aspect seem to have been lost sight of by the learned Single Judge as also the Division Bench. The learned Single Judge appears to have got swayed by the judgement in the case of Umadevi (supra) to hold that the respondents - writ petitioners had put in service for over two decades and were therefore entitled to be regularized in terms of the directions issued in the said decision, unmindful of the fact that the appellant-Society had categorically refuted the plea taken by the respondents-writ petitioners that they had put in 240 days of regular service in the past 12 months and instead, had asserted that they failed to satisfy the criteria laid down in Umadevi (supra) for purposes of regularization. 13. In such circumstances, the services rendered by the respondents- writ petitioners could not be treated as irregular and would fall in the category of illegal appointments without meeting the requisite criteria for being appointed to the subject post. Moreover, the Circulars dated 15th December, 1992 and 10th December, 2010, reveal that the pool of appointees were confined by the appellant-Society to persons who were members of the Member-Society and their dependents while excluding all others. This itself runs contrary to the very spirit of Article 16 of the Constitution of India, as expounded 1242 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports in Gazula Dasaratha Rama Rao vs. State Of Andhra Pradesh and Others5 and Yogender Pal Singh and Others vs. Union of India and Others6.