In case of taking the accused in remand, the remand Court i.e. the Ld. Court of CMM, Calcutta or CJM of any district has enough jurisdiction to pass such . In the present case. Investigation Agency prays for adding sections 16/18/18B/20/38/39 of the UA(P) Act. This Court finds that (here is sufficient ground for allowing the Investigation Agency to add the sections of the UA(P) Act in this particular Case. Thus, the petition filed by the Investigation Agency dt. 05.04.2022 seeking permission for adding sections 16/18/18B/20/38/39 of the UA(P) Act is allowed. Investigation agency is directed to take necessary steps before the Ld. Court of CMM, Calcutta for the same. To 11.04.2022 for production of the accused before the Ld. CMM, Calcutta. CD be returned. Let a copy of this be given to the IO of this Case. Office is directed to send the case record to the Ld. CMM, Calcutta along with copy of sheet after keeping the skeleton record.” 20. After considering the entirety of the material available on record, the learned Single Judge proceeded to hold as below:- (i) That the special Court constituted by the Central Government or the State Government, as the case may be, under the NIA Act has the exclusive jurisdiction to try offences under UAPA. [2024] 4 S.C.R. 649 The State of West Bengal v. Jayeeta Das (ii) In view of Section 16 of the said Act, the special Court cannot take cognizance of the offence under the UAPA directly without the case being committed to it. (iii) In terms of the proviso to sub-Section(2) of Section 43(D) of the UAPA, the Court is empowered to extend the period of detention pending investigation. On a report of the Public Prosecutor indicating progress of investigation and specific reason for detention of the accused beyond 90 days but not more than 180 days. (iv) Sub-Section (3) of Section 22 of the NIA Act states that until a special Court is designated by the State Government under sub-Section (1), the jurisdiction conferred by the Act on a special Court notwithstanding anything contained in the Code, shall be exercised by the Court of Sessions in which the scheduled offence is committed and it shall have powers to follow the procedure provided under Chapter IV of the Act. (v) Reliance was also placed on the of this Court in the case of Bikramjit Singh v. State of Punjab (2020) 10 SCC 616 wherein it has been held that for all offences under the UAPA, the special Court alone has the exclusive jurisdiction to try such offences. 21. After making the aforesaid discussion, the learned Single Judge proceeded to refer to the Division Bench of the Calcutta High Court in CRM(DB) No. 3590 of 2022 dated 1st December, 2022 wherein it was held that once the offences under UAPA are added to a case, the Magistrate is denuded of the power to remand in terms of Section 167 CrPC (as amended in UAPA) beyond a period of 30 days.