All the three s interpreted the expression to cover alcohol that could be noxiously used to the detriment of health; e. The expression ‘intoxicating liquor’ in Entry 8 has not acquired a legislative meaning on an application of the test laid down in Ganon Dunkerley (supra); f. The study of the evolution of the legislative entries on alcohol indicates that the use of the expressions “intoxicating liquor” and “alcoholic liquor for human consumption” in the Seventh Schedule was a matter well-thought of. It also indicates that the members of the Constituent Assembly were aware of use of the variants of alcohol as a raw material in the production of multiple products; g. Entry 8 of List II is based on public interest. It seeks to enhance the scope of the entry beyond potable alcohol. This is inferable from the use of the phrase [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2049 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons ‘intoxicating’ and other accompanying words in the Entry. Alcohol is inherently a noxious substance that is prone to misuse affecting public health at large. Entry 8 covers alcohol that could be used noxiously to the detriment of public health. This includes alcohol such as rectified spirit, ENA and denatured spirit which are used as raw materials in the production of potable alcohol and other products. However, it does not include the final product (such as a hand sanitiser) that contains alcohol since such an interpretation will substantially diminish the scope of multiple other legislative entries; h. The in Synthetics (7J) (supra) is overruled in terms of this ; i. Item 26 of the First Schedule to the IDRA must be read as excluding the industry “intoxicating liquor”, as interpreted in this judgement; j. The correctness of the in Tika Ramji (supra) on the interpretation of word ‘industry’ as it occurs in the Legislative entries does not fall for determination in this reference; and k. The issue of whether Section 18G of the IDRA covers the field under Entry 33 of List III does not arise for adjudication in view of the finding that denatured alcohol is covered by Entry 8 of List II.” 3.1 While coming to the aforesaid conclusions, His Lordship, the Chief Justice of India has held that the entire industry of “intoxicating liquors” including raw materials is covered by Entry 8 – List II and is completely out of Entry 52 – List I; that the scope and ambit of Entry 8 – List II covers both potable and non-potable alcohol and therefore, only State Legislatures have the power to regulate the subject. I respectfully disagree. 3.2 While coming to the aforesaid conclusions, significant s of this Court in State of Bombay vs. FN Balsara, AIR 1951 SC 318 (“FN Balsara”); Ch. Tika Ramji vs. State of Uttar Pradesh, AIR 1956 SC 676 (“Tika Ramji”); Calcutta Gas Company (Proprietary) Ltd. vs. State of West Bengal, AIR 2050 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 1962 SC 1044 (“Calcutta Gas Company”); Indian Mica and Micanite Industries vs. State of Bihar (1971) 2 SCC 236 (“Indian Mica”); Ishwari Khetan Sugar Mills (P) Ltd. vs. State of Uttar Pradesh, AIR 1980 SC 1955 (“Ishwari Khetan”); State of AP vs. McDowell & Co. (1996) 3 SCC 709 (“McDowell”); Bihar Distillery vs. Union of India (1997) 2 SCC 727 (“Bihar Distillery”); Vam Organic Chemicals Ltd. vs. State of U.P.