Section 12(5) reads thus: “(5) Notwithstanding any prior agreement to the contrary, any person whose relationship, with the parties or counsel or the subject-matter of the dispute, falls under any of the categories specified in the Seventh Schedule shall be ineligible to be appointed as an arbitrator: Provided that parties may, subsequent to disputes having arisen between them, waive the applicability of this sub-section by an express agreement in writing.” 46. The Seventh Schedule to the Arbitration Act divides the specified categories based on three factors: (i) arbitrator’s relationship with the parties or counsel; (ii) the relationship of the arbitrator to the dispute; and (iii) arbitrator’s direct or indirect interest in the dispute. The categories that are relevant for the present reference are as follows: “1. The arbitrator is an employee, consultant, advisor or has any other past or present business relationship with a party. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2219 Central Organisation for Railway Electrification v. M/s ECI SPIC SMO MCML (JV) A Joint Venture Company 5. The arbitrator is a manager, director or part of the management, or has a similar controlling influence, in an affiliate of one of the parties if the affiliate is directly involved in the matters in dispute in the arbitration.” 47. Section 12(5) overrides any prior procedure for appointing the arbitrators agreed upon between the parties under Section 11(2) due to the non obstante clause. However, the proviso to Section 12(5) allows parties to waive the applicability of that provision after the dispute has arisen. The proviso secures “real and genuine party autonomy” by allowing parties to waive the applicability of Section 12(5).81 48. Section 12(5) does not prescribe a method to challenge the appointment of an ineligible person. Section 14 deals with the termination of the mandate of an arbitrator who is unable to perform their functions.82 A person who is ineligible to be appointed as an arbitrator in terms of Section 12(5) becomes de jure unable to perform functions according to Section 14. Resultantly, the mandate of such an ineligible person gets automatically terminated and they are liable to be substituted by another arbitrator under Section 14.83 81 Law Commission of India (supra) [“60. The Commission, however, feels that real and genuine party autonomy must be respected, and, in certain situations, parties should be allowed to waive even the categories of ineligibility as set in the proposed Fifth Schedule. This could be in situations of family arbitrations or other arbitrations where a person commands the blind faith and trust of the parties to the dispute, despite the existence of objective “justifiable doubts” regarding his independence and impartiality. To deal with such situations, the Commission has proposed the proviso to section 12 (5), where parties may, subsequent to disputes having arisen between them, waive the applicability of the proposed section 12 (5) by an express agreement in writing. In all other cases, the general rule in the proposed section 12 (5) must be followed.”] 82 Section 14, Arbitration Act. [It reads: “14. Failure or impossibility to act – (1) The mandate of an arbitrator shall terminate and he shall be substituted by another arbitrator, if – (a) he becomes de jure or de facto unable to perform his functions or for other reasons fails to act without undue delay; and (b) he withdraws from his office or the parties agree to the termination of his mandate.