The definition has been amended and supplemented by three explanations, which settle the law in several matters of great importance. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 881 Manjit Singh & Anr. v. Darshana Devi & Ors. For the immediate purpose Explanation II is relevant. It states that actual possession is notice of the title of the person in possession. Prior to the amendment there had been some uncertainty because of divergent views expressed by various High Courts in relation to the actual possession as notice of title. A person may enter the property in one capacity and having a kind of interest. But subsequently while continuing in possession of the property his capacity or interest may change. A person entering the property as Tenant later may become usufructuary mortgagee or may be agreement holder to purchase the same property or may be some other interest is created in his favour subsequently. Hence, with reference to subsequent purchaser it is essential that he should make an inquiry as to the title or interest of the person in actual possession as on the date when the sale transaction was made in his favour. The actual possession of a person itself is deemed or constructive notice of the title if any, of a person who is for the time being in actual possession thereof. A subsequent purchaser has to make inquiry as to further interest, nature of possession and title under which the person was continuing in possession on the date of purchase of the property.” 12. The aforesaid decision of this Court makes it clear that Section 19 (b) of the Act, 1963 is an exception from the general rule and the onus is on the subsequent purchaser to prove that he purchased the property in good faith and also bona fide purchaser for value. 13. Section 3(2) of the General Clauses Act defines ‘good faith’ as follows:— “3(22). A thing shall be deemed to be done in good faith where it is in fact done honestly whether it is done negligently or not.” 14. Section 2(11) of the Bhartiya Nyaya Sanhita, 2023 defines “good faith”, as follows:— “2(11). “Good faith- Nothing is said to be done or believed in “good faith” which is done or believed without due care and attention;” 882 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 15. The abovesaid definitions and the meaning of the term ‘good faith” indicate that in to come to a conclusion that an act was done in good faith it must have been done with due care and attention and there should not be any negligence or dishonesty. Each aspect is a complement to the other and not an exclusion of the other. The definition of the Penal Code, 1860 emphasises due care and attention whereas General Clauses Act emphasises honesty. 16. The effect of abstention on the part of a subsequent purchaser, to make enquiries with regard to the possession of a tenant, was considered in Ram Niwas v. Bano, 2000 (6) SCC 685. It was held in paragraphs 16 and 18 therein as follows: “16.