It may simply challenge the report on grounds stated and pray for its rejection: it may while praying for rejection of the report also reiterate the allegations made in the petition of complaint and pray for further action by the court and in that view of the matter it would be a fresh complaint. In the case Jamini Kanta v. Bhabanath. AIR 1939 Cal 273, it was observed: “The word ‘naraji’ is often loosely used and it is necessary to examine the petition which is filed in a particular case “to determine its true import in that case on an examination of the petition it was found that it was not a complaint. The reports of the cases cited by Mr. Banerji do not contain any discussion about the nature of the statements made in the naraji petitions in those cases, but from the fact that the naraji petitions were treated as complaints it would appear that they did satisfy the requirements of a complaint as defined in section 4(h) of the Code in to be a complaint the petition must contain allegations of an offence and also a prayer for judicial action thereon. If therefore, the protest petition filed against an enquiry report filed or to be filed, while lodging a protest recites also the allegations already made and prays for action of the court thereon, there is no difficulty in treating it as a complaint and taking action thereon under Sections 202, 203 or 204 of the Cr PC. In the cases of Lachmi Shaw. AIR 1932 Cal 383 (1) (Supra) and Satkari Ghose. AIR 1941 Cal 439 (Supra) there were complaints to the police which were found on investigation to be false and the police submitted final reports and at the same time prayed for prosecuting the complainant under section 211 I.P.C. Naraji petitions were filed against the police reports but prosecutions were launched without considering them and it was held that 5 AIR 1968 (Cal) 238 [2024] 12 S.C.R. 11 Subrata Choudhury @ Santosh Choudhury & Ors. v. The State of Assam & Anr. the procedure followed was irregular and that the naraji petitions should be treated as complaints and treated and disposed of as such before the prayer for prosecuting the complainant could be entertained.” 17. In the light of the aforesaid decisions, we are of the view that a ‘narazi’ viz., disapproval against a final report submitted in a case investigated by the police on a first information report registered pursuant to the forwarding of a complaint under Section 156(3), Cr.P.C., for investigation should be treated as a complaint only if the same satisfies the requirement in law to constitute a complaint as defined under Section 2(d), Cr.P.C. As held in Sunil Majhi’s case (supra), if while praying for rejection of a final report after reiterating the allegations made in the original complaint and prayer for further action by the court, the same could be treated as a fresh complaint, but then, we may hasten to add that its maintainability depends upon the question as to how the original/protest petition was disposed of.