This has to be done in a manner that there is no adverse impact either on the environment or on human or animal health. The guiding principle for following the National agricultural biotechnology policy should be the economic well-being of farm families, food security of the nation, health security of the consumer, protection of the environment and security of our national and international trade in farm commodities”. x. The Committee recorded the admission of the concerned official of the Department of the Agriculture that if the dependence on Bt crops goes beyond a point, it would “be a gigantic task to revive the traditional cotton varieties from the gene bank and may take years together” at the same time it was recorded that, efforts and the direction were proceeding and it was not that the ship had sailed. xi. Certain other observations recorded by the Committee are essential: “8.97 India also entered the scene in developing and deploying transgenic crops (genetically modified crops) since early 1990s, with very good intentions and preparations to deal with ensuring the safety of such technology so that it does not harm the environment and human health. The policy and regulatory frameworks suggested, developed and implemented had all the good provisions to ensure public safety and ensure food sovereignty of the country. The policy and regulatory frameworks were put in place using well thought-out plans. However, the developments in technology and deployment over- took the speed of policy implementation which caused apprehensions in the minds of general public about the technology and the over-sight for its deployment.” 1920 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 29.1. At this stage, the Petitioners have placed reliance on the 301st Report of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Science and Technology, Environment and Forest titled “Genetically Modified Crops and its Impact on Environment” dated 25.08.2017. i. The Committee after taking an overview of the regulatory mechanism as also taking note of the official and non- official witnesses recorded as under: “The Committee takes note of the divergent views on the efficacy of existing regulatory mechanism. On the one hand, the Government claims that are very stringent regulatory mechanism has been put in place leaving no scope for any non- whatsoever by the technology developer whereas on the contrary, the Committee has been given to understand by some representatives of the civil society that the existing regulatory mechanism is stringent on paper only and the whole process of regulation depends upon the data made available to the regulators by the technology developers. The Committee is surprised to know that none of the Committees referred to in the preceding paragraphs conduct the closed field trials on their own but are solely dependent on the data provided to them by the technology developer. The Committee feels that this leaves the scope for the technology developers to fudge the data to suit their own requirements. The existing regulatory mechanism is, therefore, susceptible to manipulations. The Committee, therefore, recommends that the Central Government should, in consultation with the State Governments and Administrations of the Union Territories ensure that the whole process of field trials should be done in close environment keeping biosafety and health safety in mind and in collaboration with agricultural universities so as to minimise the scope of fudging the primary data.” ii.