6. On the other hand, learned counsel for the respondent Nos.1 to 31/complainants before the Commission, submitted that in view of the of the Constitution Bench of this Court in New India Assurance Company Limited’s case (supra), a maximum period of 45 days’ can be granted to opposite party to file the written statement and the Commission had rightly foreclosed the right of the appellant to file the written statement as from the date of acceptance of notice, more than 45 days had expired. The written statement had not yet been filed. It was the duty of the appellant to have asked for a copy of the complaint from the counsel for the complainant, in case it was not received or supplied. The appellant merely wants to delay the proceedings. 7. We have heard learned counsels for the parties and perused the relevant referred record. 8. It is evident from the impugned that in the complaint filed by the respondent Nos.1 to 31, notice was issued on 06.02.2024 to the Opposite Parties. As the counsel representing the appellant happened to be present before the Commission, and with a view to resolve the dispute between the parties expeditiously, he accepted the notice on the same day even though he did not have the vakalatnama executed by the appellant in his favour. Otherwise, the notice was issued to Opposite Party No. 2 and matter was fixed for 19.07.2024, the first date of hearing fixed by the Commission after issuance of such notice. As the copy of the complaint was not served upon the appellant or its counsel, the written statement could not be filed in time and accordingly, prayer was made on 19.07.2024 seeking further time for the purpose. However, the same was declined by the Commission while observing that it was an attempt on the part of the appellant to delay the proceedings. 8.1 However, considering the fact that the counsel for the appellant who happened to be present before the Commission on the very first date when the complaint was listed, accepted the notice, it does not show that there was any effort on the part of the 642 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports appellant to delay the process. The next date of hearing fixed by the Commission was on 19.07.2024 after issuance of notice to Opposite Party No.2. On that day, while foreclosing the right of the appellant to file the written statement, six weeks’ time was granted to the complainants to file affidavit in evidence and matter was posted for 09.01.2025. Under these circumstances, if some reasonable time is granted to the appellant to file the written statement and complainant to file replication thereof, the pleadings would be complete before the next date of hearing fixed and even affidavit of evidence can be filed by the complainants before that date. 9. The Constitution Bench of this Court in New India Assurance Company Limited’s case (supra) considered one of the questions as to what would be the commencing point of limitation of 30 days under Section 13 of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 and opined that the commencing point of limitation of 30 days would be from the date of receipt of the notice accompanied with the complaint by the opposite party and not on mere receipt of the notice of the complaint.