Paras 3 and 96 of Nand Kishore read as follows: - “3. The High Court, in the dated 30-11-2009 passed in Nand Kishore Gupta v. State of U.P. [ CMWP No. 31314 of 2009 decided on 30-11-2009 (All)] , basically pointed out that out of 12,282 landowners, 11,397 had already received their compensation under the agreement and the challenge related only to 21.03 ha out of 1604 ha of land. The High Court also took the view that the scales of justice must tilt towards the right to development of the millions who will be benefited from the road and the development of the area, as against the human rights of 35 petitioners therein, whose main complaint was that they were not heard before the declaration under Section 6 of the Act. The High Court also declined to give any direction to the State Government to consider to exempt 21.03 ha of land relating to the 35 petitioners therein on account of the fact that the construction of the road had to be made in an alignment and that alignment could not be changed. Identical view was taken in another writ petition filed by one Balbir 1084 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Singh. The High Court also expressed its concern that any direction to exempt the land covered by the construction might seriously jeopardise the Project. The High Court also reiterated that the acquisition of the land for interchange of the road was the essential part of the Project, as also the construction of bridges, culverts and interchanges, which were essential for the fast-moving six-lane Expressway. 96. We are not impressed by the argument that the encroachment issue was not a relevant factor. This argument was based on the reported decision in Om Prakash v. State of U.P. [(1998) 6 SCC 1] It must be said that the actual scenario in that case was different. In that case, the Court was considering the acquisition of area of about 500 acres comprising of 437 plots, whereas, in the present case, the area to be acquired for the Expressway alone was more than 1600 ha. This is apart from the 25 million sq m of land which was liable to be acquired for the purposes of development of five land parcels. There was interlinking between the acquisition of land for the highway and the acquisition of land for establishing the five townships.” (x) That the in Radhy Shyam carves out a clear distinction by observing that the in Nand Kishore related to the lands proposed to be acquired for construction of the expressway itself and not to the lands acquired for commercial, residential, and industrial purposes, for which the invocation of urgency clause was held to be untenable and bad in law. (xi) That neither the appellants have received any amount towards compensation for acquisition of the lands nor have they parted with the possession of the subject lands, and thus, quashing of the land acquisition notification would not have any adverse impact as no development has taken place on the lands in question.