(xi) In case of two possible constructions of a provision in the PC Act, it is the duty of the Court to interpret it in the manner which roots out corruption, as opposed to creating a road block in the fight against corruption. (xii) Section 17A of the PC Act is substantially similar to Section 197 of the Cr.P.C., and this Court has interpretively narrowed down the circumstances in which sanction under Section 197 of Cr.P.C. needs to be obtained, by holding that official duties, when discharged for collateral or other benefits, would fall outside the scope of the term “official duties”. 8 (2019) 9 SCC 469 [2024] 1 S.C.R. 591 Nara Chandrababu Naidu v. The State of Andhra Pradesh & Anr. (xiii) The in case of Yaswant Sinha vs. CBI (supra), relied upon by the appellant was not a binding precedent, as the portion thereof relied upon was a discordant note in Hon’ble Justice Joseph’s , which was in variance with the main . (xiv) The appellant was added as an accused by filing the “Accused Adding Memo” on 07.09.2023 and the petition for quashing the FIR was filed by the appellant merely 5 days later, on 12.09.2023. There was a clear attempt on the part of the appellant therefore to scuttle the investigation at the preliminary stage qua him. When there are adequate grounds to initiate a criminal investigation, the same cannot be scuttled more particularly when the other central agencies are also investigating the same scam alleged against the appellant. ANALYSIS: 10. At the outset, it may be noted that the PC Act 1988 sets the framework for prosecuting individuals involved in corrupt activities and provides measures to prevent corruption in various spheres of the society. By emphasizing accountability, transparency and strict legal consequences, the PC Act stands to combat corruption and to foster and uphold the culture of ethical conduct. The very objectives of the Act are to prevent corruption, to promote transparency and accountability in the public administration, to deter individuals from engaging in corrupt practices by imposing strict penalties, protects whistleblowers etc. It also provides for the investigation and prosecution of corruption cases, outlining the procedure for gathering evidence, conducting trials and ensuring a fair and expeditious legal process. By the Prevention of Corruption (Amendment) Act 2018 (hereinafter referred to as the Amendment Act, 2018), the PC Act 1988 was further amended, to fill in the gaps in the description and coverage of the offence of bribery so as to bring it in line with the current international practices and also to meet more effectively the country’s obligations under the United Nations Convention Against Corruption. The Central Government in exercise of the powers conferred by sub section (2) of Section (1) of the Amendment Act, 2018, had vide the Notification dated 26.07.2018 appointed the 26th July 2018 as the date on which the provisions of the said Amendment shall come into force. Accordingly, the said provisions of the Amendment Act, 2018 came into force on 26.07.2018.