Notably, Rule 25(c) of the Manual empowered the Deputy Commissioner to an enquiry in case of misconduct by a police officer, in direct variance with Section 14(2) of the Act of 2007 which unequivocally divests the Deputy Commissioner of such disciplinary power. This distinction, which was brought about in the administration of the police, must necessarily be kept in mind while considering the validity of the procedure prescribed under Rule 63(iii) of the Manual. As pointed out by Sir Rupert Cross in his ‘Statutory Interpretation (3rd Edition, 1995), a statutory provision has to be considered first and foremost as a norm of the current legal system whence it takes force, as it has a legal existence independent of the historical contingencies of its promulgation and should be interpreted in the light of its place within the system of legal norms currently in force. These observations were quoted with approval by this Court in Dharani Sugars and Chemicals Limited vs. Union of India and others1. 1 (2019) 5 SCC 480 [2024] 1 S.C.R. 481 The State of Assam and Others v. Binod Kumar and Others 13. That apart, one must also keep in mind that IPS Officers, being members of an All India Service, would be amenable to the 2007 Rules. Section 65 of the Act of 2007 makes it clear that police personnel in the State of Assam shall be governed by the existing Discipline and Appeal Rules and other Service Conduct Rules in force, as applicable to the Indian Police Service, State Police Service and others serving in the State Police Establishment. Therefore, merely because they are deployed/deputed to work in the State of Assam, IPS Officers cannot be denied the benefit of the 2007 Rules which would be applicable across the board to their ilk serving all over the country. It would, therefore, be incorrect to castigate such IPS Officers as insisting upon a ‘Reporting Authority’ of their choice. They are merely seeking parity with their kind working in other parts of the country. It is in this context that the extant 2007 Rules would have a direct impact on the issue under consideration. 14. The sheet anchor of the appellants’ case is the that the definition of “Reporting Authority’ in the 1970 Rules, post the 1987 amendment, and in the 2007 Rules does not require such authority to be ‘immediately superior’ to the officer being reported upon. Further, it is argued that, thereunder, the Government has been vested with the discretion of empowering any of the supervising authorities as the ‘Reporting Authority’ and the same would fall in the realm of policy-making. Trite to state, such discretion must be exercised judiciously and the resultant policy must necessarily fall within the four corners of the statutory scheme. The further argument that, as the designated reviewing and accepting authorities are senior officers in the police hierarchy, it would not make a difference if the ‘Reporting Authority’ is not from that department, needs mention only to be rejected. Each cog in the assessment process has its own role to play and this is clearly spelt out by Rule 63 of the Manual itself, which stipulates that inability or failure to report properly and objectively would be construed as a failure of the recording/reviewing officer and commented upon as such by the next level.