d. The respondent-plaintiff admitted that he used to file Income Tax returns being an employee of the Punjab Government, but 90 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports he did not show the amount of Rs.16,00,000/- in the Income Tax return. e. He also admitted that he had not obtained any permission from the department to purchase the suit land. f. The respondent-plaintiff admitted that the amount in question was not withdrawn from any bank and the currency notes used for the transaction were lying in his house. g. He also admitted that the market rate of the land in Village Cheema Khurd was around Rs.9-10 lakhs per Killa. h. He denied the suggestion given on behalf of the appellant- defendant that his brother Amarjeet Singh had procured the thumb impression of the appellant-defendant on blank stamp papers by fraud. 19. Learned counsel urged that the admissions as appearing in the testimony of the respondent-plaintiff, completely discredit the version regarding the execution of the disputed agreement. Therefore, he submitted that the findings recorded in the s of the Courts below are patently perverse and are based on misreading/ignorance of the admitted facts available on record and thus, the appeal merits acceptance and the impugned s deserve to be reversed. 20. Per contra, learned counsel representing the respondent-plaintiff, supported the findings recorded in the impugned s. He urged that the trial Court, the First Appellate Court and the High Court appreciated and re-appreciated the evidence minutely and have arrived at an unimpeachable conclusion that the transaction in question was a loan transaction inter se between the respondent- plaintiff and the appellant-defendant and thus, the appellant-defendant was rightly held liable to reimburse the amount of loan secured from the respondent-plaintiff at the time of the execution of the disputed agreement. He urged that the law is well settled that this Court whilst exercising the jurisdiction under Article 136 of the Constitution of India, would not enter into pure questions of fact so as to reverse the well-reasoned s of the Courts below. On these counts, learned counsel for the respondent-plaintiff implored the Court to dismiss the appeal. 21. We have given our thoughtful consideration to the submissions advanced at bar and have gone through the material placed on record. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 91 Lakha Singh v. Balwinder Singh & Anr. 22. It is trite law that jurisdiction under Article 136 of the Constitution of India should not be exercised unless the findings on facts recorded by the Courts below suffer from perversity or are based on omission to consider vital evidence available on record. 23. The scope of an appeal by special leave under Article 136 of the Constitution of India against concurrent findings is well-established. In the case of Sukhbiri Devi v. Union of India,10 this Court noted: “3. At the outset, it is to be noted that the challenge in this appeal is against concurrent findings by three Courts, as mentioned hereinbefore. The scope of an appeal by special leave under Article 136 of the Constitution of India against the concurrent findings is well settled.