The said writ petition was disposed of by allowing liberty to the petitioner therein to approach this Court again after regulations framed in connection with GE and modified food under Section 22 of the FSSA, 2006, are placed for consideration by the Parliament, in to test their legality upon constitutional sustainability. However, till date, no notification has been issued by the Union of India. 20.12 In addition, it was pointed out that GEAC in their communication addressed to Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT), dated 23.02.2018, had informed that it had not authorised or approved GM soyabean or any other products derived from GM soyabean seeds for import or cultivation in India. That being the case, it is not known on what basis is GM food being imported to India. 20.13 It was next submitted that there was a failure to undertake any socio-economic risk analysis by GEAC with regard to the failure of Bt cotton in accordance with the CBD and CPB. The need for such an assessment was also highlighted by TEC. 20.14 In this regard, reference was made to Mahyco Monsanto Biotec (India) Private Ltd. vs. Union of India, Writ Petition (Civil) No.12069 of 2015, filed before the Delhi High Court, in which the petitioner therein had challenged the price control issued by the Union of India under the Essential Commodities Act, 1955 as regards Bt cotton seeds. The challenge is pending before the Delhi High Court. Pertinently, the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, Government of India, in the said case, has stated that the farmers across the country have been financially burdened due to the increasing 2048 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports prices of Bt cotton seeds. They have also to spend on pesticides and other resources to make the crops more pest resistant and high-yielding. This has resulted in escalated expenses and reduced the margin of profit for the farmers. 20.15 It was also brought to our notice that the pink bollworm, a major pest to the cotton crop, has developed resistance in the last two or three years and has worried the farmers who have sown Bt cotton seeds. That, the cotton yields were stagnant in the last five years due to the fact that the technology was used not for yield improvement but only for prevention of loss. 20.16 Referring to Article 14(1)(b) of the Argentina Convention, it was submitted that a duty is cast on the Government of India to assess the impact of its policies and minimize adverse impacts, as India is a signatory to the said convention. 20.17 It was, thus, argued that the 1989 Rules, which are prior in time to the CPB, have to be brought in line with the said protocol. Similarly, the Biological Diversity Act, 2002, casts a duty on the Central Government to protect biodiversity as per Section 36 of the said Act. In this regard, reference was made to the of this Court in Gramophone Company of India Ltd. vs. Birendra Bahadur Pandey, (1984) 2 SCC 534 (“Gramophone Co. of India Ltd.”), and Vishaka vs. State of Rajasthan, (1997) 6 SCC 241 (“Vishaka”), which dealt with the doctrine of incorporation of international law into Indian law and how the same could be read to be part of national law unless they are in conflict with an Act of Parliament.