Thus, the price of arrack to be sold in retail is not dependent on the market forces but pre-determined within a range. Therefore, though price range is provided for by the statute, it cannot be said that because there is a price range providing for a minimum and a maximum, the sale price is not fixed. The sale price is fixed by the statute but within a particular range beyond which price, either on the higher side or on the lower side, the arrack cannot be sold by the excise contractor in retail. Therefore, the arrack is sold at a price which is fixed statutorily under Rule 4 of the 1967 Rules and thus the second condition stands satisfied. 16. Since both the conditions as mandated under Explanation(a)(iii) are satisfied, the excise contractors or the liquor vendors selling arrack would not come within the ambit of “buyer” as defined under Explanation(a) to Section 206C of the Income Tax Act. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 313 The Excise Commissioner Karnataka & Anr. v. Mysore Sales International Ltd. & Ors. 17. We have perused the s dated 17.01.2001 passed by the assessing officer under Section 206C(6) of the Income Tax Act. From a perusal of the said s, more particularly the in respect of the assessment year 2000-2001 which is the main passed by the assessing officer followed in other assessment proceedings, it is seen that the same was passed under Section 206C(6) of the Income Tax Act. By the said dated 17.01.2001 for the assessment year 2000-01, the assessing officer declared that Mysore Sales had failed to collect and deposit an amount of Rs. 3,90,57,516.00 as TDS from the excise contractors and, therefore, directed the appellant to deposit the said amount to the credit of the central government. That apart, interest was also charged and levied under Section 206C(6) following which demand notice of even date under Section 156 of the Income Tax Act was issued. Before passing the said , it is seen that the assessing officer had considered Section 206C of the Income Tax Act and the reply submitted by Mysore Sales to the show cause notice issued. 18. We have already analysed the various sub-sections of Section 206C of the Income Tax Act. As per sub-section (3), any person collecting TDS under sub-section (1) shall have to pay the same to the credit of the central government within seven days. Requirement under sub- section (5A) is that every person collecting TDS in terms of Section 206C (1) shall prepare half yearly returns for the periods ending on 30th September and 31st March respectively for each financial year and thereafter to submit the same before the competent assessing officer. Sub-rule (6) mandates that if any person responsible for collecting TDS fails to collect the same, he shall have to deposit the said amount to the credit of the central government notwithstanding failure to deduct TDS. 19. Though there is no express provision in sub-section (6) or any other provision of Section 206C of the Income Tax Act regarding issuance of notice and affording hearing to such a person before passing an thereunder, nonetheless, it is evident that an passed under Section 206C(6) of the Income Tax Act, as in the present case, is prejudicial to the person concerned as such an entails adverse civil consequences.