It means that the law confers upon a man no rights or benefits which he does not desire. In P. Dasa Muni Reddy v. P. Appa Rao, this Court held that “abandonment of right is much more than mere waiver, acquiescence or laches…. Waiver is an intentional relinquishment of a known right or advantage, benefit, claim or privilege….”. In paragraph 13 of the said decision, this Court put the law pithily in the following words: “13…. There can be no waiver of a non- existent right. Similarly, one cannot waive that which is not one’s as a right at the time of waiver. …” 16. Irrespective of whether the respondents concede or not, the Circular dated 09.04.1996 curtailed the rights of the owners to have additional TDR in certain circumstances. The Circular came under challenge before this Court and the decision of this Court in Godrej and Boyce Manufacturing Company Limited was delivered on 06.02.2009. As we have stated earlier, the decision in Godrej and Boyce Manufacturing Company Limited was in the case of the very appellant No. 1 herein though in respect of some other property. 17. To put it differently, what was cited by the Municipal Corporation in their of rejection dated 27.11.1998 as an impediment for the grant of additional TDR was the subject matter of challenge in the first round. It was made by the very appellant No. 1 herein, though in respect of another property. If the said decision in the first round had gone against appellant No. 1 herein, the rejection of the claim of the appellants for additional TDR on the basis of “prevailing policy” would have become final and unquestionable. 866 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 18. In other words, during the period from 1996 to 2009, the right to claim additional TDR was in suspended animation. Therefore, the appellants had to necessarily wait till the cloud over their right got cleared. To say that the wait of the appellants during the period of this cloudy weather, tantamount to abandonment, is clearly unjustified and unacceptable. Therefore, the finding recorded by the High Court on question No. 1 is not in tune with the law or the facts of the present case and hence question No.1 has to be answered in favour of the appellants herein.” (underlining by us) 14.1 The next question considered was whether the finding of fact arrived at by the High Court that the appellant therein did not and could not have developed the amenity, calls for any interference, especially in light of the statutory provisions and the facts of the case. The statutory provisions in Section 126(1)(b) were adverted to on the approach that the authorities ought to have in these matters and this Court observed as under: “21. As we have noted earlier, clauses (a), (b) and (c) were inserted by way of substitution in sub-section (1) of Section 126 under Maharashtra Act 10 of 1994 with effect from 25.03.1991. 22. As per Section 126(1), whenever the Planning Authority or Development Authority finds after the publication of a draft Regional Plan or a Development Plan that any land is required or reserved for any of the public purposes mentioned in the plan, such authority may acquire the land for the said public purpose.