Digital Supreme Court Reports has more choice in deciding whether or not they wish to view some particular content. Unlike television or radio, where obscene material may be publicly broadcasted and there is little to no choice to the users in terms of what content is made available, the consumption of pull media over the internet gives the viewer complete control and decision-making over what they watch. Therefore, the web-series is only available and accessible to those persons who wish to view it, and hence a higher threshold of obscenity must be applied to “pull content”. 8. Submissions of the complainant: We have heard learned counsel Mr. Arvind Singh, advocate-in-person, who is the complainant (respondent no. 2). He has argued that the present case is not fit for quashing. The alleged content of the web-series falls within the purview of Sections 67 and 67A of the IT Act and also offends Sections 3 and 4 of the Indecent Representation of Women (Prohibition) Act, 1986, which the High Court has failed to consider. Relying on the community standard test and the s of this Court in Aveek Sarkar (supra) and Devidas Ramachandra Tuljapurkar v. State of Maharashtra18, learned counsel has argued that the abovementioned portions of the web-series are obscene and sexually explicit. First, the material appeals to prurient interest in sex, as determined by the average person applying contemporary community standards. The titles of the episodes and the plot revolves around college students engaging in sexual activity. The content of the episodes also uses sexually explicit language and expletives, which cannot be termed as the “new normal”. Second, the material portrays sexual conduct in a patently offensive way. Third, the material lacks serious literary, artistic, political or scientific value. Fourth, the material tends to arouse sexually impure thoughts. Fifth, the material is not in the larger interest of public good or in the interest of art, literature, science and therefore, the obscenity is not justified. Learned counsel has also pointed out that the material in the present case is freely available on the internet and is accessible to any person, including children and hence must be regulated in the interests of public , morality, and decency. 9. Analysis: The central issue is whether the use of expletives and 18 [2015] 7 SCR 853 : (2015) 6 SCC 1 : 2015 INSC 414 [2024] 3 S.C.R. 1159 Apoorva Arora & Anr. Etc. v. State (Govt. of Nct of Delhi) & Anr. profane language in the titles and content of the episodes of the web-series ‘College Romance’ constitutes an offence of publication and transmission of obscene and sexually explicit content under Sections 67 and 67A of the IT Act. We will examine each of these provisions in the context of ‘obscenity’ for the purpose of Section 67 and ‘sexually explicit material’ for the purpose of Section 67A. A. Whether the material is ‘obscene’: 10. We will first deal with the contention that the material is obscene. Section 67 of the IT Act is as follows: “67.