2584 of 2022. The grievance in the said Writ Petition was regarding non-compliance with the s in the aforesaid Arbitration Petition by the government authorities regarding carrying out the survey and construction of the compound wall. The persons who raised objections to the survey were not impleaded in the Writ Petition. In the Writ Petition, a Division Bench directed the District Collector Palghar and the Superintendent of Police, district Palghar, to remain present before the Court through video conference. On 9th March 2022, the Division Bench passed an . Paragraph 3 of the said reads thus: “3. From the annexures to the Writ Petition it appears that this is a clear case of political pressure being exerted [2024] 5 S.C.R. 161 Ajay Ishwar Ghute & Ors. v. Meher K. Patel & Ors. on the Government officials like the Collector and the Superintendent of Police [see pages 252 read with 259D annexed to the Writ Petition]. However, s of the Court cannot be breached by any individual or organization by creating unrest and the authorities cannot be heard to say that they are unable to tackle such lawlessness. We therefore request the Advocate General to go through the Writ Petition and assist the Court. Stand over to 14th March, 2022, when the Collector and the Superintendent of Police shall remain present.” 7. Mr Dattartraya Tulshidas Shinde, the Superintendent of Police of Palghar district, filed an affidavit dated 14th March 2022 before the High Court. The affidavit notes that when the work of construction of the compound wall in terms of the in the Arbitration Petition commenced, the local tribals gathered an impression that it was an attempt to illegally dispossess some of them who were declared owners of certain lands. He stated that the tribals insisted that the lands be demarcated before constructing the compound wall. The Superintendent of Police has referred to his meeting held on 11th March 2022 with the learned Advocate-General of the State, the Collector of the District and the Superintendent of Land Records of the District. The affidavit further records that the Deputy Superintendent of Land Records agreed to provide staff for carrying out demarcation. In paragraphs 9 and 10 of his affidavit, the Superintendent of Police stated thus: “9. If while constructing the aforesaid wall if appropriate and adequate provision for access is made, enabling those agriculturists who own and possess various parcels of lands that are likely to get land locked because of the erection of the compound wall, to reach their respective agricultural lands owned and possessed by them, one of the important for obstructions to the compound wall, at hand of the tribals, will get resolved. 10. If an assurance is given to the tribals who legally own and possess various parcels of land that are likely to get covered by the proposed erection of the compound wall that they are not going to dispossessed or ousted, much 162 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports less illegally by the erection of the compound wall itself, in any view, major reason for obstruction to the erection of the compound wall, by the tribals, will disappear.” (emphasis added) 8.