Similarly, in Premium Granites & Anr. v. State of Tamil Nadu & Ors. reported in (1994) 2 SCC 691, this Court observed that it is not the domain of the courts to consider as to whether a particular policy is wise or that a better public policy can be evolved, and that such matters must be left to the discretion of the executive and legislature. The relevant observations read as under: - "54. It is not the domain of the Court to embark upon unchartered ocean of public policy in an exercise to consider as to whether the particular public policy is wise or a better, public policy can be evolved. Such exercise must be left to the discretion of the executive and legislative authorities as the case may be. …” (Emphasis supplied) 48. In yet one another decision of this Court in Delhi Science Forum and Others v. Union of India and Another reported in (1996) 2 SCC 405 it was observed that the courts should not express opinion as to whether a particular policy should be adopted or not, and no such direction can be given unless they pertain to the implementation of any policy as a result of which there is a violation or infringement of any constitutional or statutory provision. The relevant observations read as under: - [2024] 12 S.C.R. 93 Kirloskar Ferrous Industries Limited & Anr v. Union of India & Ors. “7. What has been said in respect of legislations is applicable even in respect of policies which have been adopted by Parliament. They cannot be tested in Court of Law. The courts cannot express their opinion as to whether at a particular juncture or under a particular situation prevailing in the country any such national policy should have been adopted or not. There may be views and views, opinions and opinions which may be shared and believed by citizens of the country including the representatives of the people in Parliament. But that has to be sorted out in Parliament which has to approve such policies. Privatisation is a fundamental concept underlying the questions about the power to make economic decisions. What should be the role of the State in the economic development of the nation? How the resources of the country shall be used? How the goals fixed shall be attained? What are to be the safeguards to prevent the abuse of the economic power? What is the mechanism of accountability to ensure that the decision regarding privatisation is in public interest? All these questions have to be answered by a vigilant Parliament. Courts have their limitations because these issues rest with the policy-makers for the nation. No direction can be given or is expected from the courts unless while implementing such policies, there is violation or infringement of any of the constitutional or statutory provision. The new Telecom policy was placed before Parliament and it shall be deemed that Parliament has approved the same. This Court cannot review and examine as to whether the said policy should have been adopted.