18. Pursuant to the above directions of NHRC, the Government of Uttar Pradesh responded by a communication dated 21 April 2020. The communication broadly flagged the grievance of the State Government that the version of the State Government was not adequately heard during the NHRC enquiry. It also stated that a separate enquiry was being conducted by the Commissioner, Basti Division, Basti. 19. The first report of the NHRC was followed by an dated 6 July 2020 whereby a recommendation was issued to the Chief Secretary, Government of Uttar Pradesh to pay a compensation of Rs 5 Lakhs to the petitioner and his family for the loss caused to them. The Chief Secretary and the Director General of Police were directed to submit compliance reports. 20. The NHRC dated 06 July 2020 was challenged by the State of Uttar Pradesh in a writ petition before the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad. The writ petition is pending before the High Court. 21. Besides the NHRC investigation, the issue was investigated by the Commissioner, Basti. The findings recorded by the Commissioner in an investigation report dated 18 June 2020 are extracted below : “After scrutiny and on-site inspection of records related to the case, it was found that: 1. For widening of the national highway in question, the DPR was not prepared by making a correct assessment [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2355 In Re: Manoj Tibrewal Akash of the availability of land, land requirement, etc. on the spot as per rules. 2. During road widening, written notice should have been issued giving sufficient time in connection with the removal of the affected houses and other establishments/shops. Whereas in this case a notice, regarding the removal of the alleged encroachment was not issued. Rather, on 12-09-2019, before the demolition in question, Duggi-Munadhi was made, which was confirmed on the spot, but for such a big action, mere Duggi-Munadhi was not enough. For this, notice should be issued in writing2. During road widening, written notice should have been issued giving sufficient time in connection with the removal of the affected houses and other establishments/ shops. Whereas in this case a notice, regarding the removal of the alleged encroachment was not issued. Rather, on 12-09-2019, before the demolition in question, Duggi-Munadhi was made, which was confirmed on the spot, but for such a big action, mere Duggi-Munadhi was not enough. For this, notice should be issued in writing to the affected persons as per rules. Which has not been done. to the affected persons as per rules. Which has not been done. 3. It has been accepted by NH officials themselves that 16-16 meters of land is to be taken from the middle to both sides for junction, and according to revenue records, there is only 16 meters’ width (8-8 meters from the middle of the road) of land is available on the spot. In such a situation, legal process has not been followed for additional land. 4. In the construction of the questioned road, as per the rules, compensation of landholding and other ownership land should be determined, which has not been done.