214. In paragraph 149, Krishna Iyer, J. while concluding observed that “the heady upper berth occupants from ‘backward’ classes do double injury. They beguile the broad community into believing that backwardness is being banished. They rob the need-based bulk of the backward of the ‘office’ advantages the nation, by classification, reserves or proffers”. 215. Fazal Ali, J. in paragraph 165, referring to clauses (24) and (25) of Article 366 of the Constitution observed that the said provisions create a presumption in favour of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes that they are backward classes of citizens. It is observed that it is not disputed that the members of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes are specified in the notifications issued under Articles 341 and 342 of the Constitution and, therefore, they must be deemed to be Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes for the purposes of the Constitution. 216. In paragraph 178, the Learned Judge observed that the concept of equality or equal opportunity as contained in Article 16 does not mean that same laws must be applicable to all persons under every circumstance. He observed that if this artificial interpretation is put on the scope and ambit of Article 16 it will lead to channelization of legislation or polarization of rules. It is observed that differences and disparities exist among men and things, and they cannot be treated alike by the application of the same laws. He observed that the law has to come to terms with life and must be able to recognize the genuine differences and disparities that exist in human nature. 217. The Learned Judge also held that the equality enshrined in clause (1) of Article 16 of the Constitution inherently implies that the opportunity must be given not only to a particular section of the society or a particular class of citizens who may be advanced or otherwise more affluent but to all classes of citizens. He observed that that this can be achieved by making a reasonable classification so that every class of citizens is duly represented in services which will enable equality of opportunity to all citizens. He lays down the conditions for the classification to be a reasonable one. 1564 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 218. It can thus be seen that in none of the s in N.M. Thomas it is held that the Scheduled Castes are a homogeneous class. It has been held that once the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes have been identified and they find a place in the Presidential List, they will continue to be the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. It has been held that by the very fact of they being included in the Presidential List, they are deemed to be backward and no further enquiry regarding their backwardness would be warranted. 219. In Akhil Bharatiya Soshit Karamchari Sangh (supra), Krishna Iyer, J., in paragraph 94, rejects the plea that because a few harijans are better off, therefore, the bulk at the bottom deserves no jack-up provisions and that a swallow does not make a summer.