PW-4, Dr. Jai Kumar Chunarkar, was the first to medically examine the complainant at Doundilohara Hospital. He had recorded burn injuries on his body which we have already referred above. Praneet Sharma (PW-5), is the father of the complainant who stated that on the midnight of 03.01.2013, he was informed by Aman Singh, that his son Arijit Sharma is not well and his son has been hospitalized at Sector -9 Hospital, Bhilai and when he reached the hospital, he saw his son in burnt condition and in severe pain. His son informed him that the two appellants were the ones who tried to kill him. He also said that at 12 noon on 03.01.2023 he received a phone call from the mobile number 7869590607, where the caller demanded a sum of Rs.8,00,000/- as ramson for the release of his son, Arijit Sharma. When he said that his son is in hospital with him and he would file a complaint against the caller, the phone got disconnected. This part of the statement of this witness (PW-5) who is the father of the complainant/injured, as regards the demand of ransom, however, has not been established in any manner. The complainant himself was examined as PW-6 who said in his examination in chief that he was staying in Bhilai as paying guest and on 02.01.2013 the accused Neeraj Sharma who was known to him called on his mobile phone and asked him to come to Nehru Nagar, Bhilai, from where they were supposed to go somewhere on a motorbike. After informing his land lady, he went to meet Neeraj Sharma at Nehru Nagar. Neeraj Sharma arrived after a few minutes on a motorcycle with Ashwani Kumar Yadav riding their pillion. The three went on this motorcycle towards Yugandar College and on their way, they also consumed liquor. They had also met Rahul, the brother of Neeraj Sharma, on their way. Past midnight, he requested Neeraj Sharma to stop the vehicle, as he wanted to ease himself and when the complainant was talking to Neeraj Sharma, the other accused Ashwani Kumar Yadav, came from behind and tied clutch wire around his neck and then both Ashwani Kumar Yadav and Neeraj Sharma made an attempt to strangulate him with the clutch wire. As a result, he fell down semi-conscious and he was thought to be dead by the two assailants who then poured petrol on him. He also heard Neeraj Sharma and Ashwani Kumar fetching petrol from their motorcycle. Neeraj Sharma also took away Rs.5000/- from his purse, and his cell phone. Later petrol was poured on him and then 48 [2024] 1 S.C.R. DIGITAL SUPREME COURT REPORTS he was set on fire. He somehow escaped and reached the nearby Bhilai plant and he informed the guard about the incident and gave the number of his landlord to him and subsequently ambulance was called and he was sent to the hospital. This witness was cross-examined at length by the defence counsel but nothing has come out which may cast a doubt on any of his statements.