He and his uncle proceeded ahead while talking with Bhola Shankar and Kuldeep Kumar Tiwari. This way they had reached the temple of Govardhan Nath Ji. In the meantime, from the southern side of Tulsi Park, Shree Dev and his four sons, viz., Munna Lal, Raju, Nitya Nand and Uchchav @ Pappu, resident of Mohalla Tiraha, Chodah Pore, P.S. Soron, armed with kanta, knives and country-made pistol confronted his father Satya Narain. All the accused persons caught hold of his father and started assaulting him with kanta and knives. On hearing the cries of his father, informant Sarwan Kumar and others dashed towards Satya Narain to save him. It was then that appellant Nitya Nand fired from his country- made pistol whereafter all the accused persons made good their escape from the south-western side. When the informant and others reached the spot, his father Satya Narain had already succumbed to the multiple injuries which he had suffered on his body. 6.1. A written report of the incident scribed by Kuldeep Kumar Tiwari i.e., the FIR was submitted by Sarwan Kumar at 05:10 PM on the same day at P.S. Soron. 6.2. It was mentioned that Shree Dev, deceased Satya Narain, and Laxmi Narain were the three brothers. Laxmi Narain, who was the youngest of the three, had no issue; so he had executed a will in favour of Satya Narain’s sons. Shree Dev and his sons including the appellant Nitya Nand were enraged by this disposition of property by Laxmi Narain. This led to filing of several cases between them. Due to such litigation, there was an old enmity and for that reason, the accused persons had fatally assaulted Satya Narain on that fateful day. 7. On the basis of the FIR, Crime No. 237/1992 was registered at P.S. Soron under Sections 147, 148, 149 and 302 IPC. The investigating officer had carried out investigation of the case. The post-mortem [2024] 9 S.C.R. 41 Nitya Nand v. State of U.P. & Anr. report indicated multiple ante-mortem injuries on the person of the deceased. On completion of the investigation, charges under Sections 148 and 302/149 IPC were framed against the accused Munna, Raju, Uchchav @ Pappu and Nitya Nand. Similarly, charges under Sections 147 and 302/149 IPC were framed against the accused Shree Dev. 8. The accused persons denied the charges and claimed to be tried. 9. To prove its case, the prosecution examined a total of five witnesses. After closure of the prosecution evidence, statements of the accused persons were recorded under Section 313 Cr.P.C. 10. The trial court on an appreciation of the evidence adduced and considering the materials on record, convicted the accused Shree Dev under Sections 147 and 302/149 IPC and also convicted the appellant and the other sons of Shree Dev i.e. Munna Lal, Raju and Uchchav @ Pappu under Sections 148 and 302/149 IPC. All the accused were thereafter sentenced as indicated above. 11. In appeal, the High Court observed that the eyewitness account of the incident stood fully corroborated by the medical evidence.