Digital Supreme Court Reports (o) “service” means service of any description which is made available to potential users and includes, but not limited to, the provision of facilities in connection with banking, financing insurance, transport, processing, supply of electrical or other energy, board or lodging or both, housing construction, entertainment, amusement or the purveying of news or other information, but does not include the rendering of any service free of charge or under a contract of personal service;” There is no doubt about the fact that any person watching a movie after remitting the necessary consideration becomes a consumer of service. The service in this case is that of entertainment. 10. The question for our consideration is whether there is any ‘deficiency’ in the provision of the entertainment service that the consumer has availed by paying the consideration through the purchase of a ticket. The complainant alleges that there is ‘deficiency’ in the service because what was shown in the film was not as per what was promised. Now, the definition of ‘deficiency’ becomes relevant and it is defined in Section 2(1)(g) of the Act as follows: “2. Definitions.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,— (g) “deficiency” means any fault, imperfection, shortcoming or inadequacy in the quality, nature and manner of performance which is required to be maintained by or under any law for the time being in force or has been undertaken to be performed by a person in pursuance of a contract or otherwise in relation to any service;” 11. As per the definition, there is deficiency when there is a fault, imperfection, shortcoming or inadequacy in the quality, nature, and manner of performance that is required to be maintained either in terms of a law or in terms of a contract.8 To appreciate the allegation of deficiency, it is necessary to refer to certain portions of the complaint: “3. The Complainant states that, her children are big fans of Shahrukh Khan and after watching the promos of the 8 Arulmighu Dhandayudhapaniswamy Thirukoil, Palani, Tamil Nadu v. Deptt. of Post Offices [2011] 10 SCR 43 : (2011) 13 SCC 220, para 18. [2024] 5 S.C.R. 151 Yash Raj Films Private Limited v. Afreen Fatima Zaidi & Anr. song ‘Jabra Fan’ they decided to go to the movie ‘Fan’ to watch the song ‘Jabra Fan’ on silver screen. She had given 2 option (1) Jungle Book and the second one was ‘Fan’ to both the children namely Nabeel and Flora. Out of two option they preferred the later one because of song ‘Jabra Fan’ to enjoy on celluloid. 4. The Complainant states that, she accordingly convinced her mother-in-law, father-in-law, sister and brother-in-law for the movie by saying that, the film is looking great and the song ‘Jabra Fan’ which is now become jingle, is also there for the entertainment which will feel great on the silver screen. She bought 7 Tickets of first day first show on 15.04.2016, show time 6.10 p.m. Friday of PVR Cinema of the row G-4 to G-10 of Rs.