47. This Court in the case of Canara Bank v. Debasis Das, (2003) 4 SCC 557 where of removal was passed against charged employee as he could not produce his written brief within the time as provided, the of removal was passed without considering his written brief. Upon preferring statutory appeal, though the employee filed written brief yet he could not convince the appellate authority and it was dismissed. While exercising writ jurisdiction, the Learned Single Judge Bench allowed the writ petition on the ground of violation of natural justice which was confirmed by Learned Division Bench of the High Court. This Court while exercising its jurisdiction under Art. 136 quashed the of the Learned Single Judge and the Division Bench based on the finding of violation of natural justice. [2024] 4 S.C.R. 191 Krishnadatt Awasthy v. State of Madhya Pradesh & Ors. 12. Residual and crucial question that remains to be adjudicated is whether principles of natural justice have been violated; and if so, to what extent any prejudice has been caused. It may be noted at this juncture that in some cases it has been observed that where grant of opportunity in terms of principles of natural justice does not improve the situation, “useless formality theory” can be pressed into service. 23. As was observed by this Court we need not go into “useless formality theory” in detail; in view of the fact that no prejudice has been shown. As is rightly pointed out by learned counsel for the appellants, unless failure of justice is occasioned or that it would not be in public interest to dismiss a petition on the fact situation of a case, this Court may refuse to exercise the said jurisdiction (see Gadde Venkateswara Rao v. Govt. of A.P. [AIR 1966 SC 828] ). It is to be noted that legal formulations cannot be divorced from the fact situation of the case. 48. Circling back to the facts of the instant case, when the hindsight a reasonable man looks at the action of appellants of not controverting their relationship with the parties and not demonstrating the manner in which they have been prejudiced before the revisional authority and Learned Single Judge Bench and Learned Division Bench of High Court, one would not be hesitant to hold that their representation before the collector would not have improved their case or compelled the collector to arrive at a different finding. Hence, in such a scenario, the plea of non-impleadment is a useless formality and the court should not entangle itself in procedural complexities. 49. In view of the principle of prejudice as carved out in the aforesaid judicial precedents and in the facts of this case, in my considered view the passed by the learned Single Judge as confirmed in writ appeal reaffirming the of the Collector and Commissioner, setting aside the selection of the appellants does not suffer from any infirmity, warranting the scope of interference of this Court in exercise of power under Article 136 of the Constitution of India.