Noticeably, during the arbitral proceedings none of the parties raised any objection to the Arbitrator adjudicating the dispute, be it on any ground, including bias. Each one of the claims stands separately considered and dealt with. 31. We find that the view taken by the Arbitrator is a plausible view and could not have been substituted for its own by the Court. 32. The reasons assigned by the Court under Section 34 of the A &C Act, to our mind, are totally extraneous to the controversy, to the lis between the parties and not borne out from the record. In fact, they are mutually contradictory. 32.1 In awarding an amount of 25% of the tender amount (incorrectly recorded as “over the tender amount” in some parts of the of the learned Civil Judge, Sirsi) in favour of the Claimant-Appellant, the Court has ipso facto accepted that the Claimant-Appellant had not breached the terms of the contract. In fact, the Court appears to have accepted the Claimant’s contention of delay in handing over the site drawings and supply of materials. The Court while noticing the change in the drawings, resorted to, a misadventure by observing that the changes in the drawings were “only minor” in the dimension of beam which as we find the Court have contradicted itself by recording the same to have been “noticed as essential in the execution of the contract”. The Court, in our considered view had no business to state that the Claimant is claiming the amount is from the pocket of the concerned engineer or his property. [2024] 1 S.C.R. 299 S.V. Samudram v. State of Karnataka & Anr “…Whether the claimant is claiming the such amount is from the pocket of concerned Engineers or from his property, whey should so much amount be paid from exchequer amount, it is heavily cast on the tax payer, that has to be consider by the court…” 32.2 Further observations as we extract hereunder, justifying the interference in the award, in our considered opinion, are totally scandalous: - “…Admittedly the arbitrator who is retired Engineer after retirement there will be no holding on the department, when the claimant is going to benefit so much amount there will be benefit to the arbitrator…” 32.3 The Court imputed its personal knowledge in assigning reasons by observing :- “…Even in this case also if the report of the arbitrator is accepted as it is, it is heavy burden on the exchequer not on the department…” 32.4 The reasoning given by the Court in interfering with the award which is extracted immediately hereafter, in our view, is preposterous: - “…It is the common sense and the general observation, whenever the work is entrusted to any contractor to put up the construction what they do is, they use to start excavation to lay a foundation. It is not the case of the 2nd opponent regarding digging at original spot or laying any foundation for construction of the residential house. So, under such circumstances the alleged loss pleaded by the opponent No.2 is only at his imagination.” 32.5 For it is no business of the Court to consider the burden on the exchequer.