The object of the cross- examination is to impeach the accuracy, credibility and general value of the evidence given in-chief; to sift the facts already stated by the witness; to detect and expose the discrepancy or to elicit the suppressed facts which will support the case of the cross-examining party. What we are trying to convey is that it is the duty of the Public Prosecutor to cross-examine a hostile witness in detail and try to elucidate the truth & also establish that the witness is speaking lie and has deliberately resiled from his police statement recorded under Section 161 of the Cr.P.C. A good, seasoned and experienced Public Prosecutor will not only bring the contradictions on record, but will also cross-examine the hostile witness at length to establish that he or she had actually witnessed the incident as narrated in his/her police statement. 70. In the case at hand, we have noticed that after Shaheena (PW- 3) was declared hostile, all that the public prosecutor did was to put few suggestions to her for the purposes of cross-examination. Surprisingly, even proper contradictions were not brought on record. In other words, the PW-3 was not even appropriately confronted with her police statement. It is not sufficient for the public prosecutor while cross-examining a hostile witness to merely hurl suggestions, as mere suggestions have no evidentiary value. 71. The trial judge also failed to play an active role in the present case. The trial judge should have been conscious of the fact that Shaheena (PW-3) was asked to depose in the open court in a charged atmosphere and that too in the presence of the accused who was none other than her own father. [2024] 6 S.C.R. 207 Anees v. The State Govt. of NCT 72. The impact of a court appearance on a child and the duty of the court towards a child witness have been very succinctly explained by the Constitutional Court of South Africa in the case of Director of Public Prosecutions, Transwal v. Minister of Justice and Constitutional Development reported in (2009) 4 SA 222 (CC). We quote the relevant observations as under: “101. A court operates in an atmosphere which is intended to be imposing. It is an atmosphere which is foreign to a child. The child sits alone in the witness stand, away from supportive relatives such as a parent. The child has to testify in the presence of the alleged abuser and other strangers including the presiding judicial officer, the accused’s legal representative, the court ly, the prosecutor and other court officials. While the child may have met the prosecutor before - at least one assumes that the prosecutor would have interviewed the child in preparing for trial - the conversation now takes place in a context that is probably bewildering and frightening to the child. Unless appropriately adapted to a child, the effect of the courtroom atmosphere on the child may be to reduce the child to a state of terrified silence. Instances of children who have been so frightened by being introduced into the alien atmosphere of the courtroom that they refuse to say anything are not unknown.” So far as conduct of the competency assessment of the child is concerned, it was held as follows: “102.