35. Submissions made by learned counsel for the parties have received the due consideration of the Court. We have also considered the summary of submissions as well as the s cited at the bar. Analysis 36. Let us at the outset refer to and analyse the relevant provisions of the 1996 Act. Section 31 of the 1996 Act deals with the form and contents of arbitral award. Section 31 has eight sub-Sections. Sub- Section (7) is relevant to the debate. Sub-Section (7) as it stood at the relevant point of time reads as under: 31. Form and contents of arbitral award – * * * * * (7)(a) Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, where and in so far as an arbitral award is for the payment of money, the arbitral tribunal may include in the sum for which the award is made interest, at such rate as it deems reasonable, on the whole or any part of the money, for the whole or any part of the period between the date on which the cause of action arose and the date on which the award is made. (b) A sum directed to be paid by an arbitral award shall, unless the award otherwise directs, carry interest at the [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1601 North Delhi Municipal Corporation v. M/s. S.A. Builders Ltd. rate of eighteen per centum per annum from the date of award to the date of payment. 36.1. From a minute reading of sub-Section (7), it is seen that it has got two parts: the first part i.e. clause (a) deals with passing of award which would include interest up to the date on which the award is made. The second part i.e. clause (b) deals with grant of interest on the ‘sum’ awarded by the Arbitral Tribunal. 36.2. Let us now discuss in detail the contours of the two clauses. As per clause (a), when an award is made by the arbitral tribunal for payment of money, the ‘sum’ which is awarded may include interest at such rate as the arbitral tribunal deems appropriate, on the whole or any part of the money and for the whole or any part of the period. The period for which the interest may be granted would be between the date on which the cause of action arose and the date on which the award is made. The expression which needs to be noticed in this part is the following: the arbitral tribunal may include in the sum for which the award is made interest at such rate as it deems reasonable. 36.3. The word ‘may’ appearing in the above expression is quite significant. It implies that the arbitral tribunal has the discretion to grant interest at a reasonable rate. In other words, it may grant interest or it may not grant interest; but if it grants interest, it would be included in the ‘sum’ which is awarded by the arbitral tribunal. 36.4. This brings us to the second part i.e.