28.06.1996. Assigning such a reason, the State Commission dismissed the appeal. It is the of the appeal confirming the of the District Forum that was taken up in revision before the NCDRC by the respondent herein, which culminated in the impugned . 7. A perusal of the impugned would reveal that for reversing the concurrent s and dismissing the complaint, the NCDRC assigned the reason that mere receipt and retention of the premium until after the death of the deceased-applicant or even the mere preparation of the policy and its blocking would not amount to acceptance of the proposal for insurance policy. To arrive at such conclusions, it relied on the decision of this Court in Life Insurance Corporation 458 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of India v. Raja Vasireddy Komalavalli Kamba and Ors.1. It was held that the fora below had erred in directing for payment of benefits in terms of the subject policy. 8. Various contentions were raised on behalf of the parties before us to support their rival contentions. We have already taken note of the factual contentions raised on behalf of the parties. In the light of the contentions the question to be considered is whether the NCDRC was justified in reversing the concurrent s of the forums below and in dismissing the complaint. It is to be noted that even after dismissing the complaint NCDRC took note of the offer made by the respondent to the appellant for payment of an amount of Rs. 1 Lakh ex-gratia vide paragraph 4 (d) of the memo of the revision petition, and issued a specific direction to the respondent to pay a sum of Rs. 1 Lakh to the appellant by way of ex-gratia. Before adverting to the rival contentions and looking into the correctness or otherwise of the reversal of the concurrent s we find it appropriate to dilate this aspect of the impugned . 9. As noted hereinbefore, as per the impugned the NCDRC dismissed the complaint. Therefore, the question is how can an carrying a specific direction for payment, even by way of ex- gratia, be issued in a complaint after dismissing the same. It is to be noted that such an was passed in a revision petition filed by the respondent herein. Jurisdiction of the NCDRC under the Act is provided under Section 21 thereof. Section 21 (a) has two Sub- clauses and Sub-clause (i) thereof deals with the original jurisdiction of NCDRC to entertain complaints and Sub-clause (ii) thereof deals with appeals against s of the State Commission. Section 21 (b) deals with its revisional power. Section 21 of the Act reads thus: - “21. Jurisdiction of the National Commission.— Subject to the other provisions of this Act, the National Commission shall have jurisdiction— (a) to entertain— (i) complaints where the value of the goods or services and compensation, if any, claimed exceeds [rupees one crore]; and 1 [1984] 3 SCR 350 : (1984) 2 SCC 719 [2024] 6 S.C.R. 459 Mrs. Bhumikaben N. Modi & Ors.