Further, it was held that if the defendants were proceeded against by the court, they may also be parallelly inquired against by the legislature for violation of rights and privileges. The proceedings are for different offences, may be conducted in their own right and such situations do not constitute a case of double punishment or double jeopardy. The Court (speaking through Wilson, CJ) held: “It is to my mind a proposition very clear that this Court has jurisdiction over the offence of bribery as at the common law in a case of this kind, where a member of the Legislative Assembly is concerned either in the giving or in the offering to give a bribe, or in the 76 [1885] 17 O.R. 524 [2024] 3 S.C.R. 563 Sita Soren v. Union of India taking of it for or in respect of any of his duties as a member of that Assembly; and it is equally clear that the Legislative Assembly has not the jurisdiction which this Court has in a case of the kind; and it is also quite clear that the ancient definition of bribery is not the proper or legal definition of that offence. … There is nothing more definitely settled than that the House of Commons in England, and the different colonial Legislatures, have not, and never have had, criminal jurisdiction. … But if these three persons had agreed that the two members of the House of Lords should make these false statements, or vote in any particular manner, in consideration of a bribe paid or to be paid to them, that would have been a conspiracy to do an act, not necessarily illegal perhaps, but to do the act by illegal means, bribery being an offence against the law; and the offence of conspiracy would have been complete by reason of the illegal means by which the act was to be effected. That offence could have been inquired into by the Court, because the inquiry into all that was done would have been of matters outside of the House of Lords, and there could therefore be no violation of, or encroachment in any respect upon, the lex parliament”. (emphasis supplied) 158. The decision in Bunting (supra) was before the Court in PV Narasimha Rao (supra). The Minority expressly relied on the decision, recognizing that bribing a legislator was treated as a common law offence under the criminal law in Canada and Australia and a legislator can be prosecuted in a criminal court for the offence. Agarwal, J noted: “54. […] In Australia and Canada where bribery of a legislator was treated as an offence at common law the courts in White [13 SCR (NSW) 332], Boston [(1923) 33 CLR 386] and Bunting [(1884-85) 7 Ontario Reports 524] had held that the legislator could be prosecuted in the 564 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports criminal court for the said offence. It cannot, therefore, be said that since acceptance of bribe by a Member of the House of Commons was treated as a breach of privilege by the House of Commons and action could be taken by the House for contempt against the Member, the Members of the House of Commons, on 26-1-1950, were enjoying a privilege that in respect of conduct involving acceptance of bribe in connection with the business of Parliament, they could only be punished for breach of privilege of the House and they could not be prosecuted in a court of law.