Learned State Counsel did not have any instructions from the Inspector Incharge regarding pendency of the present petition before this Court. 15.3 To similar effect is the affidavit filed by the Special Secretary, Home Department, Govt. of Odisha. 16. In compliance to the dated 06.12.2023 passed by this Court, a report has been received from the High Court. The comments of Judge ‘B’, as requested, were annexed with the report and original file of second bail application of appellant was also received from the High Court. It is mentioned therein that at the time of hearing of the second bail application, the court was not apprised of the factum of pendency of the SLP before this Court, in which notice had already been issued on 22.09.2023. 16.1 A copy of Standing No.2 of 2023, in partial modification of earlier Standing No.1 of 2020 issued by the High Court on 21.05.2023, was annexed with the report. It was issued in pursuance to the observation made by this Court in Pradhani Jani v. The State of Odisha16. The Standing was issued with reference to the listing of the bail applications under Sections 438 and 439 Cr.P.C. Para 2 of the Standing with reference to the bail applications under Section 439 Cr.P.C. is extracted below: 16 Criminal Appeal No.1503/2023 decided on 15.05.2023 [2024] 1 S.C.R. 619 Kusha Duruka v. The State of Odisha “2. The subsequent bail applications under section 439 Cr.P.C. including applications for interim bail shall be listed before the Hon’ble Judge who, at the earliest, decided any of the earlier bail applications under section 439 Cr.P.C. arising out of the same FIR (decided on merit or disposed of as withdrawn/ not pressed). In the event the Hon’ble Judge is not available on account of superannuation, transfer etc. or recuses, the said application shall be listed before the Hon’ble Judge who next disposed of any of those bail applications, and so on. If none of the Hon’ble Judges who decided the earlier bail applications is available, the application shall be listed before the regular Bench as per roster.” 17. In substance, it was directed that the Stamp Reporting Section will verify in case any bail application arising out of the same FIR has been disposed of earlier. The Stamp Reporting Section shall furnish complete details. The subsequent bail applications are to be listed before the same Judge. However, in case of non-availability or superannuation of the that Judge, alternate system has been provided. It is further directed that while listing the subsequent bail application, final (s) of earlier bail application(s) arising out of the same FIR shall be tagged. To put the record straight, the passed by this Court in Pradhani Jani’s case (supra) is extracted hereinbelow: “3. The perusal of the paper books would reveal that various applications filed by various accused have been entertained by different learned Single Judges of the same High Court. In many of the High Courts, the practice followed is that the applications arising out of the same FIR should be placed before one Judge.