In Supreme Court Advocates-on-Record Association v. Union of India,211 Justice J Chelameswar, writing for himself and Justice A K Goel, summarized the following principles of the bias test in India: “25.1. If a Judge has a financial interest in the outcome of a case, he is automatically disqualified from hearing the case. 25.2. In cases where the interest of the Judge in the case is other than financial, then the disqualification is not automatic but an enquiry is required whether the existence of such an interest disqualifies the Judge tested in the light of either on the principle of “real danger” or “reasonable apprehension” of bias. 25.3. The Pinochet case added a new category i.e. that the Judge is automatically disqualified from hearing a case where the Judge is interested in a cause which is being promoted by one of the parties to the case.” 107. Although there have been vacillations about the test in England, the Indian courts have been largely consistent in their approach by applying the test of real likelihood of bias or reasonable apprehension of bias. Recently, the court has used the real danger of bias test. However, the above discussion shows that there is no significant difference between the real danger of bias test and the real possibility of bias test if the question of bias is inferred from the perspective of a reasonable or fair-minded person. 108. This Court has consistently applied the test of real likelihood of bias to determine arbitrator bias. In HRD Corporation v. GAIL (India),212 the Court explained the application of the real likelihood of bias test to determine the issue of arbitrator bias thus: 211 (2016) 5 SCC 808 [25] 212 (2018) 12 SCC 471 [20] [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2249 Central Organisation for Railway Electrification v. M/s ECI SPIC SMO MCML (JV) A Joint Venture Company “20. […] As has been pointed out by us hereinabove, the items contained in the Schedules owe their origin to the IBA Guidelines, which are to be construed in the light of the general principles contained therein—that every arbitrator shall be impartial and independent of the parties at the time of accepting his/her appointment. Doubts as to the above are only justifiable if a reasonable third person having knowledge of the relevant facts and circumstances would reach the conclusion that there is a likelihood that the arbitrator may be influenced by factors other than the merits of the case in reaching his or her decision. This test requires taking a broad commonsensical approach to the items stated in the Fifth and Seventh Schedules. This approach would, therefore, require a fair construction of the words used therein, neither tending to enlarge or restrict them unduly.” (emphasis supplied) 109. In Government of Haryana v. GF Toll Road Private Ltd.,213 the Court had to decide whether a retired government employee could be appointed as an arbitrator by the state government. Justice Indu Malhotra, writing for the two-Judge Bench, observed that the test to be applied for bias is whether the circumstances are such as would lead a fair-minded and informed person to conclude that the arbitrator was in fact biased.