Hence, for shortlisting candidates for the purposes of interview, Allahabad University would score candidates as per the criteria laid down in Table 3A and the affiliated colleges in Table 3B. f. As per clause 7 of Tables 3A and 3B, 2 (two) marks are to be granted to a candidate for every year of his/her teaching experience or Post Doctoral experience. Since the contents of both the tables are similar, we propose to reproduce Table 3A later in this . g. Despite Respondent 1 fulfilling the eligibility criteria, she was not shortlisted for the interview as her score did not reach the cutoff marks. This happened because she was not awarded any marks under clause 7 in Table 3A for “Teaching/Post Doctoral experience”. Her past teaching experiences on contractual basis and as a guest faculty were not counted as ‘teaching experience’ by Allahabad University. h. According to Allahabad University, past teaching experience as a guest lecturer and on contractual basis do not fulfill the conditions provided under Reg.10(e) and (f)(iii), respectively; hence, it could not be counted as ‘Teaching/Post Doctoral experience’. i. As per clause 10(e), previous service as a ‘guest lecturer’ would not count as ‘teaching experience’. Furthermore, as per clause 5 2018 Regulations, hereafter 1802 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 10(f)(iii), previous service of a lecturer on contractual basis would count as ‘teaching experience’ only if the incumbent was drawing total gross emoluments not less than the monthly gross salary of a regularly appointed Assistant Professor, Associate Professor and Professor, as the case may be. Reg.10, in its entirety, would also be reproduced at a latter part of this for the sake of completeness of understanding. j. As mentioned above, Respondent 1 had served as a guest lecturer and on contractual basis before. Furthermore, as per the records, she was also not drawing a salary/honorarium equivalent to the monthly gross salary of a regularly appointed Assistant Professor, which at the relevant time was Rs. 35,654/-. Therefore, Respondent 1 was not granted any marks for her past services as guest lecturer and on contractual basis. Falling short of marks, she was not shortlisted for interview. k. Thereafter, litigation commenced with the following cases being presented by the Respondent 1: i. Upon the advertisement dated 28th September 2021 being issued and her experience not being marked, Respondent 1 invoked the writ jurisdiction by filing a petition6 praying that Allahabad University be directed to grant her marks for her teaching experience as ‘contractual faculty’ while shortlisting candidates for interview. Her petition was rejected by the Single Judge on 20th May 2022. Challenging the same, she filed the Special Appeal (Defective).7 ii. In respect of advertisement dated 30th August 2022, Respondent 1 filed another petition8 wherein, inter alia, she prayed for a declaration that Reg.10(f)(iii) of the 2018 Regulations be declared ultra vires Article 14 of the Constitution of India, 1950. This petition was dismissed on 2nd August 2023 in light of the pendency of the Special Appeal (Defective) filed earlier.