The High Court held that although the number of persons who witnessed the incident have not been examined, the [2024] 4 S.C.R. 325 Bhupatbhai Bachubhai Chavda & Anr. v. State of Gujarat appellants failed to adduce any evidence to falsify the prosecution’s version. By the impugned , after overturning the acquittal of the appellants, the High Court sentenced them to undergo life imprisonment. SUBMISSIONS 4. The learned senior counsel appearing for the appellants pointed out that the High Court, while overturning the of acquittal, had relied upon the police statement of PW-4 and had erroneously put the burden on the appellants to adduce evidence to show their innocence. He submitted that the entire approach of the High Court while dealing with an appeal against acquittal, is completely erroneous. He submitted that there is no finding recorded by the High Court that the only possible view which could be taken based on the evidence was that the guilt of the appellants had been proved. The learned senior counsel submitted that the High Court had erred in overturning the of acquittal. 5. The learned counsel appearing for the State vehemently submitted that in an appeal against acquittal, the High Court was duty-bound to reappreciate the evidence, and after finding that evidence of PW- 4, an eye-witness, completely inspires confidence, the High Court rightly interfered with the of acquittal. OUR VIEW 6. It is true that while deciding an appeal against acquittal, the Appellate Court has to reappreciate the evidence. After re-appreciating the evidence, the first question that needs to be answered by the Appellate Court is whether the view taken by the Trial Court was a plausible view that could have been taken based on evidence on record. Perusal of the impugned of the High Court shows that this question has not been adverted to. Appellate Court can interfere with the of acquittal only if it is satisfied after reappreciating the evidence that the only possible conclusion was that the guilt of the accused had been established beyond a reasonable doubt. The Appellate Court cannot overturn of acquittal only on the ground that another view is possible. In other words, the of acquittal must be found to be perverse. Unless the Appellate Court records such a finding, no interference can be made with the of acquittal. The High Court has ignored the well-settled principle that an of acquittal further strengthens the presumption of innocence of the 326 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports accused. After having perused the , we find that the High Court has not addressed itself on the main question. 7. The second error the High Court committed is found in paragraph 23 of the impugned . The High Court has gone to the extent of recording a finding that the appellants have failed to adduce evidence in their support, failed to examine the defence witness and failed to establish falsity of the prosecution’s version. This concept of the burden of proof is entirely wrong. Unless, under the relevant penal statute, there is a negative burden put on the accused or there is a reverse onus clause, the accused is not required to discharge any burden.