However, it is required to be noted that from the very beginning there were allegations of involvement of five persons in committing the offence. It is true that out of five accused, original accused No. 4 has been acquitted for want of sufficient evidence. However, on that ground alone the remaining accused could not have been acquitted for the offence punishable under section 396 of the IPC. As observed by the Hon’ble 1190 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Supreme Court in the case of Manoj Giri (Supra), in a given case it may happen that there can be five or more persons and the factum of five or more persons either is not disputed or is clearly established, but the Court may not be able to record a finding as to identity of all the persons said to have committed dacoity and may not be able to convict them and their acquittal, observing that thereafter identity is not established, or that otherwise there is insufficient evidence to convict them, in such case there can be a conviction of less than five persons or even one for dacoity. Similar is the view taken by the Hon’ble Supreme Court in the case of Saktu (Supra). Under the circumstances and in the facts and circumstances of the case, learned trial Court has materially erred in acquitting the remaining original accused Nos. 1, 2, 3 and 5 for the offences punishable under section 396 of the IPC. [6.6] Similarly, the learned trial Court has committed grave error in acquitting the original accused for the offence punishable under section 302 of the IPC. From the findings recorded by the learned trial Court as such the learned trial Court has specifically observed and given a finding that original accused Nos. 1, 2, 3 and 5 have committed the murder/loot and dacoity and there is ample material / evidence against them connecting them with respect to the murder of the deceased Bharatbhai. Therefore, as such the learned trial Court has already convicted the accused for the offence punishable under section 392 of the IPC. As observed hereinabove, original accused Nos. 1, 2, 3 and 5 are also held to be guilty for the offence punishable under section 396 of the IPC. Once the accused are convicted for the offence punishable under section 396 of the IPC i.e. dacoity with murder and the death of the deceased Bharatbhai was homicidal death, the learned trial Court ought to have convicted the accused for the offence punishable under section 302 of the IPC also. As observed hereinabove, the prosecution has been successful in proving and establishing the complete chain of events by leading cogent evidence and therefore, accused persons [2024] 2 S.C.R. 1191 Thakore Umedsing Nathusing v. State of Gujarat were liable to be convicted for the offence punishable under section 302 of the IPC. [6.7]. Now, so far as the reliance placed upon the decisions of the Hon’ble Supreme Court in the cases of Rakesh (Supra); Vijay Kumar (Supra) and Kanhaiyalal (Supra) relied upon by the learned advocate appearing on behalf of the original accused is concerned, it is required to be noted that on facts and the findings recorded by this Court, none of the aforesaid decisions shall be applicable and/ or of any assistance to the accused.