The key differentiation, evident from the aforementioned provisions of the American and Australian Constitutions, as opposed to Article 355, lies in the terminology employed—specifically, the use of ‘invasion’ and ‘domestic violence’ in contrast to ‘external aggression’ and ‘internal disturbance’ as outlined in Article 355. Another notable distinction is that, in the corresponding provisions of the American and Australian Constitutions, it is mandated that the State must apply to the Centre for protection against domestic violence. In contrast, no such condition is stipulated in India under Article 355. (b) Sarbananda Sonowal v. Union of India 356. In Sarbananda Sonawal (supra), the petitioner, a citizen of Assam, filed a writ petition challenging the constitutional validity of the Illegal Migrants (Determination by Tribunals) Act, 1983 (IMDT Act), which was made applicable to the state of Assam for the detection and deportation of illegal immigrants entering into India, on or after 25.03.1971. The petitioner therein alleged, inter alia, that the IMDT Act had failed to effectuate the detection and deportation of such illegal immigrants. In comparison, the Foreigners Act, 1946, which was applicable to the rest of the country, was asserted to be more effective in deporting illegal immigrants. The petitioner therein argued that since the unabated illegal immigration posed a threat to the security of the State, the IMDT Act would be violative of Article 355 of the Constitution. 357. The Court analyzed the provisions of the IMDT Act and noted that it laid down a high threshold for establishing an individual as an illegal immigrant. Moreover, if a citizen of India wanted to inform the authorities regarding the whereabouts of an illegal immigrant, such a citizen needed to be a resident of the same police station where the immigrant was purportedly residing. Since the immigrants were [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1137 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 constantly on the move, this condition was held to be arbitrary. In essence, the Court held that the IMDT Act had been purposefully enacted to provide shelter to the immigrants who entered Assam from Bangladesh after 25.03.1971. 358. The Court thereafter held that the Union has the duty to protect its citizens. While interpreting Article 355, the Court held that the term ‘aggression’ is of wide import and is different from the term ‘war’, which involves a contest between two nations for the purpose of vanquishing each other. On the contrary, the term ‘aggression’ is a broader term that may include complex situations depending on the fact situation and its impact. Accordingly, illegal immigration was held to be included in ‘external aggression’. Consequently, the Court held as follows: "62. […] The Governor of Assam in his report dated 8-11-1998 sent to the President of India has clearly said that unabated influx of illegal migrants of Bangladesh into Assam has led to a perceptible change in the demographic pattern of the State and has reduced the Assamese people to a minority in their own State. It is a contributory factor behind the outbreak of insurgency in the State and illegal migration not only affects the people of Assam but has more dangerous dimensions of greatly undermining our national security.