Further, the following witness accounts establish the presence of visitors and eyewitnesses: ¾ Amarendra Kumar Sinha (PW-10) has deposed and accepted the presence of Arbind Singh (PW-13), Shashi Bhushan Singh (PW-42), Ram Niranjan Chaudhary (A-6) and 7-8 other persons. ¾ Arbind Singh (PW-13), who was declared hostile, accepted that Amarendra Kumar Sinha (PW-10), Shashi Bhushan Singh (PW-42) and 5-7 other persons had come to the hospital. ¾ Rabindra Bhagat (PW-14), the injured witness who also turned hostile, deposed to the presence of two other persons accompanying Brij Bihari Prasad. Once the presence of a witness at the place of occurrence is proven, their testimony, if credible and truthful, should not be dismissed solely based on non-compliance with hospital and prison protocols. 13 See para 11(xv). 14 See para 23. 15 See para 17(ii). 1328 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 15. The reasoning given by the High Court to disregard and doubt the eyewitness account of Paras Nath Chaudhury (PW-1), on the premise that he ought to have been the informant because he is the brother-in-law of Brij Bihari Prasad and was present at the hospital at the time of occurrence, is conjectural and unfounded. This fact cannot ipso facto lead to the disavowal of his testimony. Such a presumption imposes a rigid formula for determining who should be an informant, which the law does not envision. It is an accepted and admitted position that the name of Paras Nath Chaudhury (PW-1) has been mentioned in the fardbeyan and in the FIR as one of the persons present at the hospital. Any person can be an informant of a case, and the police may also register a case on their own. The rationale of the High Court for dismissing the testimony of Paras Nath Chaudhury (PW-1) is fundamentally flawed. 16. Yet another reason for rejecting his testimony stems from contradictions about the presence of Rajan Tiwari (A-9) as an assailant at the hospital. In his police statement, Paras Nath Chaudhury (PW-1) identified Rajan Tiwari (A-9) as being at the hospital, but in his court testimony, he stated that Rajan Tiwari (A-9) was not present. In our considered view, this contradiction does not weaken Paras Nath Chaudhury’s (PW-1) account of witnessing Mantu Tiwari (A-4) and Vijay Kumar Shukla @ Munna Shukla (A-8) commit the offence. Indian law does not recognise the doctrine – falsus in uno, falsus in omnibus. In Deep Chand and Others v. State of Haryana,16 this Court had observed that the maxim falsus in uno, falsus in omnibus is not a sound rule to apply in the conditions of this country. This maxim does not occupy the status of rule of law. It is merely a rule of caution which involves the question of the weight of evidence that a court may apply in the given set of circumstances.17 In cases where a witness is found to have given unreliable evidence, it is the duty of the court to carefully scrutinise the rest of the evidence, sifting the grain from the chaff.