Hence, besides the administrative decision to hand over the maintenance of E.M. Bypass from KMDA to KMC, the respondent KMDA as the tendering authority, has a right to rectify the ambiguities in the bid document by cancelling the same.” (Emphasis supplied) 76. However, interestingly, the Notice of Cancellation dated 07.02.2023 that came to be issued by the respondent makes no mention of any such lacuna. In fact, there is no reference to the aforementioned clauses or any conflict in their interpretation. The aforesaid notice only states that the tender was found to be ‘non-specific’ and ‘not well defined’ which created ambiguity due to which the respondent is incurring losses, and nothing is stated either about the ambiguity in putting up the advertisement boards or for that matter which aspect of the tender is non-specific. 77. It is also apposite to mention that just a month prior to cancelling the tender, the respondent on 24.01.2023 issued a notice to the appellant, asking him to stop all work in respect of the tender. Remarkably, in the said notice, there is no whisper about there being any of the aforementioned technical faults in the tender floated by the respondent. In fact, a close reading of the aforesaid notice would reveal that the s to stop the work had been issued for an altogether different reason – i.e., handing over of the operation & maintenance of the concerned underpasses to another authority i.e., KMC. a. Scrutiny of Internal File-Notings and Deliberations of the State. 78. The appellant has in particular placed reliance on various notings made in the internal file of the respondent in respect of the tender to 590 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports contend that the cancellation of the same was arbitrary and influenced by extraneous considerations. The respondent on the other hand submitted that the internal file-notings cannot be used or relied upon to impute any ill-motives to the decision of cancelling the tender as they only reflect the opinion of a particular individual and cannot be construed or interpreted as the decision of the respondent. In this regard, reliance has been placed on the following decisions: - i. Pimpri Chinchwad New Township Development Authority v. Vishnudev Coop. Housing Society : (2018) 8 SCC 215. ii. Shanti Sports Club v. Union of India : (2009) 15 SCC 705. 79. This Court in its decision in Bachhittar Singh v. State of Punjab & Anr. reported in AIR 1963 SC 395 held that merely because something was written in the internal files and notesheet does not amount to an , it at best is an expression of opinion which may be changed, and it only becomes an when such opinion is formally made into a decision. The relevant observations read as under: - “9. The question, therefore, is whether he did in fact make such an . Merely writing something on the file does not amount to an . Before something amounts to an of the State Government two things are necessary.