Giving an opportunity of explanation would meet the bare minimal requirement of natural justice. Before the services of an employee are terminated, resulting in forfeiture of his right to be considered for employment, opportunity of explanation must be afforded to the employee concerned. The appellant was not afforded any opportunity of explanation before the issue of the impugned ; consequently the is rendered null and void being inconsistent with the principles of natural justice…” 12.5. This Court in Aureliano Fernandes v. State of Goa,12 in an unequivocal terms observed as follows: “73……This Court has repeatedly observed that even when the rules are silent, principles of natural justice must be read into them. 74. In its keen anxiety of being fair to the victim / complainants and wrap up the complaints expeditiously, the Committee has ended up being grossly unfair to the appellant. It has completely overlooked the cardinal principle that justice must not only be done, but should manifestly be seen to be done. The principles of audi alteram partem could not have been thrown to the winds in this cavalier manner.” 12.6. It is manifestly clear from the above s that reasons are heartbeat of every and every notice must specify the grounds on which the administrative or quasi-judicial authority intends to proceed; if any document is relied upon to form 12 [2023] 7 SCR 772 : (2024) 1 SCC 632 : 2023 SCC OnLine SC 621 [2024] 12 S.C.R. 437 Basudev Dutta v. The State of West Bengal & Ors. the basis of enquiry, such document must be furnished to the employee; it is only then a meaningful reply can be furnished; and the failure to furnish the documents referred and relied in the notice would vitiate the entire proceedings as being arbitrary and in violation of the principles of natural justice; and before taking any adverse decision, the aggrieved person must be given an opportunity of personal hearing. In the light of the same, we have no hesitation to hold that the of termination passed against the appellant is arbitrary, illegal and violative of the principles of natural justice and it cannot be sustained. 12.7. Though we are in agreement with the proposition laid down in the decisions cited on the side of the respondent(s), the same does not apply to the present case, which factually differs. 12.8. Thus, in the ultimate analysis, we find that the Tribunal was right in observing that without following the principles of natural justice and without affording any opportunity to explain his case before the authority, the appellant was terminated and hence, his termination cannot be sustained in the eye of law; and accordingly, set aside the of termination. However, the High Court erroneously allowed the writ petition filed by the State and set aside the of the Tribunal by observing that the action of the authorities in issuing a show cause notice and inviting a reply therefrom and the availing of such opportunity by the appellant, is in adherence with the principles of natural justice.