[Para 21(b)] Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 – s.4 – Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 – s. 204 – After a summons are issued u/s. 204 of the CrPC on taking cognizance of the offence punishable u/s. 4 of the PMLA on a complaint, if accused appears before the Special Court, would he be treated as in custody and is it necessary for him to apply for bail: Held: After a summons is issued under Section 204 of the CrPC on taking cognizance of the offence punishable under Section 4 of the PMLA on a complaint, if the accused appears before the Special Court pursuant to the summons, he shall not be treated as if he is in custody – Therefore, it is not necessary for him to apply for bail – However, the Special Court can direct the accused to furnish bond in terms of Section 88 of the CrPC. [Para 21(c)] Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 – Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 – s. 205 – In a case where the accused appears pursuant to a summons before the Special Court, whether the Special Court can grant exemption from personal appearance: Held: In a case where the accused appears pursuant to a summons before the Special Court, on a sufficient cause being 866 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports shown, the Special Court can grant exemption from personal appearance to the accused by exercising power under Section 205 of the CrPC. [Para 21(d)] Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 – Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 – s.70 – If the accused does not appear after summons are served or does not appear on a subsequent date, whether the Special Court can issue warrant within its power: Held: If the accused does not appear after a summons is served or does not appear on a subsequent date, the Special Court will be well within its powers to issue a warrant in terms of Section 70 of the CrPC – Initially, the Special Court should issue a bailable warrant – If it is not possible to effect service of the bailable warrant, then the recourse can be taken to issue a non-bailable warrant. [Para 21(e)] Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 – Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 – s.88 – Whether the accepting bonds u/s. 88 of the CrPC amounts to grant of bail: Held: A bond furnished according to Section 88 is only an undertaking by an accused who is not in custody to appear before the Court on the date fixed – Thus, an accepting bonds under Section 88 from the accused does not amount to a grant of bail. [Para 21(f)] Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 – Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 – s.89 r/w. s.70 – In a case where the accused has furnished bonds u/s. 88 of the CrPC, if he fails to appear on subsequent dates, whether the Special Court has power to issue warrant directing that the accused shall be arrested and produced before the Special Court and if such a warrant is issued, will it be open for the accused to apply for cancellation of the warrant by giving an undertaking to appear on all dates fixed: Held: In a case where the accused has furnished bonds under Section 88 of the CrPC, if he fails to appear on subsequent dates, the Special Court has the powers under Section 89 read with Sections 70 of the CrPC to issue a warrant directing that the accused shall be arrested and produced before the Special Court; If such a warrant is issued, it will always be open for the accused to apply for cancellation of the warrant by giving an undertaking to the Special Court to appear before the said Court on all the dates fixed [2024] 6 S.C.R.