1180 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports i. Immigrant is a Person of Indian Origin;70 and ii. Has entered into Assam71 from Bangladesh;72 and iii. Has entered into Assam prior to the cut-off date of 01.01.1966; and iv. Has been ordinarily resident in Assam since the date of entry. 97. Secondly, Section 6A sub-section (3) provides that persons of Indian origin who came into Assam from the territories now part of Bangladesh on or after 01.01.1966 but before 25.03.1971 and since then have been ordinarily resident in Assam and subsequently have been detected to be a foreigner, shall be liable to have their names deleted from the electoral rolls for a period of ten years from the date of their detection. The provision further stipulates that persons belonging to this category will be entitled to get themselves registered as citizens with the appropriate authority as per the prescribed procedure and the rules only upon detection as a foreigner and upon consequent deletion of their name from the electoral rolls. (6) Without prejudice to the provisions of section 8, — (a) If any person referred to in sub-section (2) submits in the prescribed manner and form and to the prescribed authority within sixty days from the date of commencement of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 1985, for year a declaration that he does not wish to be a citizen of India, such person shall not be deemed to have become a citizen of India under that sub-section; (b) If any person referred to in sub-section (3) submits in the prescribed manner and form and to the prescribed authority within sixty days from the date of commencement the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 1985, for year or from the date on which he has been detect-ed to be a foreigner, whichever is later, a declaration that he does not wish to be governed by the provisions of that sub-sec-tion and sub-sections (4) and (5), it shall not be necessary for such person to register himself under sub- section (3). Explanation. — Where a person required to file a declaration under this sub-section does not have the capacity to enter into a contract, such declaration may be filed on his behalf by any person competent under the law for the time being in force to act on his behalf. (7) Nothing in sub-sections (2) to (6) shall apply in relation to any person— (a) who, immediately before the commencement of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 1985, for year is a citizen of India; (b) who was expelled from India before the commencement of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 1985, for year under the Foreigners Act, 1946 (31 of 1946). (8) Save as otherwise expressly provided in this section, the provisions of this section shall have effect notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force. 70 Id., § 6A sub-section (1) cl. (d), “a person shall be deemed to be of Indian origin, if he, or either of his parents for any of his grandparents was born in undivided India”.