Even otherwise, ‘application’ under the Limitation Act includes a ‘petition’, thereby leaving no room for any doubt that a Section 11(6) petition is to be treated as an application. 83. As a petition under Section 11(6) of the Act, 1996 is not a suit, hence it would not be governed by sub-section (1) of Section 14 of the Limitation Act. Instead, it would be governed by sub-section (2) of Section 14 of the Limitation Act. Some of the conditions required to be fulfilled for seeking the benefit of exclusion under Section 14(2) are materially different from those required under Section 14(1) and are as follows: i. Both the earlier and the subsequent proceeding must be civil proceedings; ii. Both the earlier and subsequent proceedings must be between the same parties; iii. The earlier and subsequent proceeding must be for the same relief; iv. The earlier proceeding must have failed owing to a defect of jurisdiction of the earlier court or any other cause of a like nature; v. The earlier proceedings must have been prosecuted in good faith and with due-diligence; and vi. Both the earlier and the subsequent proceedings are before a court. 84. With every other ingredient remaining the same, the key difference between sub-sections (1) and (2) of Section 14 respectively is two-fold: i. First, the benefit of Section 14(1) can be availed of where the subsequent proceeding is a suit, whereas the benefit of Section 14(2) can be availed of where the subsequent proceeding is an application. ii. Secondly, Section 14(1) applies if both the earlier and the subsequent proceedings have the same matter in issue, whereas Section 14(2) applies when both the earlier and the subsequent proceedings are filed for seeking the same relief. [2024] 12 S.C.R. 183 M/s HPCL Bio-Fuels Ltd. v. M/s Shahaji Bhanudas Bhad 85. Clearly, the scope of the expression “same matter in issue” appearing in Section 14(1) is much wider than that of the expression “for the same relief” appearing in Section 14(2) of the Limitation Act. This is evident on account of the difference between the nature of a suit vis-à-vis an application. In a suit, a party generally seeks relief in the nature of the cause of action which is established on the basis of oral and documentary evidence and arguments. Whereas, an application is made under a particular provision of a statute and if it appears to the court that such provision of the statute is not applicable, then the application as a whole cannot be sustained. Thus, an application is made for a specific purpose as provided by the statutory provision under which it is made unlike a suit which is instituted based on a cause of action and is for seeking remedies falling in a wider conspectus. 86. Sub-section (3) of Section 14 stipulates that where liberty to withdraw any suit is granted under sub-rule (3) of 23 Rule 1 on the ground of defect of jurisdiction or other cause of a like nature, then, the exclusion of limitation period as provided by Section 14(1) will be available to the plaintiff to institute any fresh suit on the same subject-matter.