Valuation of the Corporate Debtor was thereby conducted by two different valuers, and an average thereof was carried out, leading to the fixing of the liquidation value of the Corporate Debtor at INR 04.25 Crores. The Appellant had put forth that the valuers had also observed that the valuations derived by them could be realised, subject to fulfilment of the rules of NSEZ and procedure of approval thereof. 5. The Resolution Plan dated 24.11.2019 (hereinafter referred to as “Resolution Plan”), which was prepared by the Respondent No. 03 – M/s Commodities Trading, being the Resolution Applicant (hereinafter referred to as “Resolution Applicant”) was put before the Committee of Creditors, which approved it in its 4th Meeting dated 06.01.2020. 6. An application was then filed under Sections 31(1) and 60(5) of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 (hereinafter referred to as “IBC 2016”) before the NCLT by the RP, seeking an approval of the Resolution Plan on behalf of the Committee of Creditors. The same was allowed by NCLT vide dated 05.10.2020, granting only INR 50 Lakhs to the Appellant against its admitted claim of INR 06.29 Crores. Aggrieved, the Appellant put forth its objections before the RP to the Resolution Plan and claimed payment of the entire amount of INR 06.29 Crores from the Corporate Debtor, 494 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports leaving open the legal remedy to recover the full dues, in case the same was not accepted. 7. Being at loggerhead with the RP with respect to the payment of admitted claim, the Appellant moved an application before the NCLT challenging the dated 05.10.2020, which approved the Resolution Plan. This was dismissed vide dated 27.11.2020, observing that the said tribunal did not have the jurisdiction to accept the prayer made in the application, which would amount to setting aside of the Resolution Plan, and the Appellant had the remedy of filing an appeal before the NCLAT. 8. Thereafter, the Appellant moved appeals under Section 61 of IBC 2016 before the NCLAT, challenging both the s, as referred to above. These appeals were also dismissed vide the impugned dated 14.02.2022. 9. The grievance put forth by the Appellant is with regard to the Appellant not being informed about the auction proceedings which were initiated at behest of the RP, thus, depriving it of its participation in the said proceedings. Once the total claim had been admitted by the RP, which was clearly indicated in the Resolution Plan, the said amount should have been disbursed to the Appellant prior to the claim of the other claimants, including the sole Financial Creditor. 10. Another aspect which has been pressed into service is with regard to Clause 10.9 of the Resolution Plan, as regards the exemptions from the NSEZ, asserted to be in direct contravention and contradiction to their established rules and principles of the functioning of the NSEZ. The Appellant, which works under the guidance of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, Government of India, could not have been commanded relating to its functions by the RP, especially with regard to the charges or penalties relatable to the change in any business model for transfer of units by the original allottee.