That leads us to the analysis of the provisions of Rule 6, on the one hand, and Rule 8, on the other. As we have already noticed, Rule 6(1)(a) provides for promotion to 65% of the posts to the Higher Judicial Service on the basis of the principle of merit- cum- seniority and the passing of a suitability test. The principle of merit- cum- seniority is an approved method of selection where merit 18 [2018] 10 SCR 348 : (2018) 14 SCC 129 [2024] 2 S.C.R. 1165 Dr Kavita Kamboj v. High Court of Punjab and Haryana & Ors is the determinative factor and seniority plays a less significant role.19 Where the principle of ‘merit-cum- seniority’ is the basis, the emphasis is primarily on the comparative merit of the judicial officers being considered for promotion. Resultantly, even a junior officer who demonstrates greater merit than a senior officer will be considered for promotion. 46. Through their letter dated 02 March 2023, the State Government raised an objection to the recommendations made by the High Court. The State requested the High Court to “clarify the non- recommendation” of certain officers who were higher in seniority to the officers recommended by the High Court. While as an abstract proposition, promotion of judicial officers on the basis of seniority alone may impart objectivity to the entire process, this Court has also cautioned against using seniority as the sole criterion for promotion in such cases. The Higher or Superior Judicial Service is a gateway to eventual appointments to the High Court. Steps may legitimately be taken by the High Court to ensure that appointments to the higher echelons of the judiciary does not become a parade of mediocrity. 47. In Sant Ram Sharma v. State of Rajasthan,20 a Constitution Bench of this Court held that consideration of merit along with seniority in the procedure of promotion is not violative of Article 14 and 16 of the Constitution. It was also observed: “9. [...] The question of proper promotion policy depends on various conflicting factors. It is obvious that the only method in which absolute objectivity can be ensured is for all promotions to be made entirely on grounds of seniority. That means that if a post falls vacant it is filled by the person who has served longest in the post immediately below. But the trouble with the seniority system is that it is so objective that it fails to take any account of personal merit. As a system it is fair to every official except the best ones; an official has nothing to win or lose provided he does not actually become so inefficient that the disciplinary action has to be taken against him. 19 B V Sivaiah v. K. Addanki Babu, [1998] 3 SCR 782 : (1998) 6 SCC 720 20 [1968] 1 SCR 111 : 1967 SCC OnLine SC 16 1166 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports But, though the system is fair to the officials concerns, it is a heavy burden on the public and a great strain on the efficient handling of public business.