54. Though sub-classification or sub division of castes from amongst the Scheduled Castes by the State for the purpose of reservation per se may not amount to inclusion or exclusion of any caste from the Presidential List of Scheduled Castes, it would certainly amount to tinkering with or varying the notification notified under Clause (1),which is clearly prohibited under Clause (2).When all castes, races or tribes enumerated in the Presidential List are deemed to be the “Scheduled Castes” for the purposes of the Constitution, any preference given to or any quota reserved for a particular caste or race or tribe out of the quota reserved for the entire class of the Scheduled Castes for the government jobs by the State, would certainly deprive the other members of the “Scheduled Castes” from having the benefit of reservation to the extent the quota is reserved for such particular caste or castes. Any such action on the part of the State would not only tantamount to discrimination in reverse and violation of Article 14 but would also tantamount to tinkering with Article 341 of the Constitution. 55. As per the settled legal position, every word or expression used in the Constitution has a purpose, and all the provisions of the Constitution [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1629 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. have to be read in harmony so that the meaning of such word or expression is validated by the Constitutional values and the scheme. A person belonging to any of the castes, races or tribes enumerated in the Presidential List acquiring special status as the member of the “Scheduled Caste” in relation to a particular State, would be entitled to all the rights including the fundamental rights enshrined under the Constitution,and therefore would also be entitled to be treated equally from amongst the other members of the “Scheduled Castes” enumerated in such Presidential List, in that particular State. If any State makes special provision of reservation by fixing quota for the entire “Scheduled Castes” for admission to educational institutions or for the appointments on the posts in the public services as permitted under Article 15 and 16, such quota of reservation should be made available to all the members of the “Scheduled Castes” specified in the Presidential List, as all the members of the castes, races and tribesspecified in such List are deemed to be “Scheduled Castes” for the purposes of the Constitution, and the State has no power to further sub-classify or sub-divide the “Scheduled Castes” for giving preferential treatment to a particular caste from the said list of “Scheduled Castes”. As stated earlier, the very object of Article 341 is to give new special status to the “Scheduled Castes” for the purposes of the Constitution and to keep the political interference of the States outside the purview of the said provisions. Therefore, under the guise of providing reservation for the weaker of the weakest castes, the State could not be permitted to make any variation in the notification nor could it be permitted to indirectly tinker with such notification published under Article 341(1).