41. In fact, S.K. Sharma’s case (supra), after noticing the leading case of Ridge vs. Baldwin, 1964 AC 40 expressly records that where there is total violation of principles of natural justice, the violation would be of a fundamental nature. S.K. Sharma’s case (supra) explicitly records that “a distinction ought to be made between violation of the principle of natural justice, audi alteram partem, as such and violation of a facet of the said principle. In other words, distinction between “no notice”/“no hearing” and “no adequate hearing” or to put it in different words, “no opportunity” and “no adequate opportunity”, was highlighted. The principle in S.K. Sharma’s case (supra) about the distinction between “no opportunity” and “no adequate opportunity” has also been followed in M.J. James (supra). 42. Unlike in S.K. Sharma’s case (supra) on which both the learned Single Judge and the Division Bench have relied upon to non-suit the appellants, the present is a case of no notice and no hearing in breach of an express rule. [2024] 4 S.C.R. 213 Krishnadatt Awasthy v. State of Madhya Pradesh & Ors. 43. In the present case, before the Collector, only the Complainant – Archana Mishra and the ex-officio respondents were arrayed as parties. Allegations directly on the conduct of the appellants and the committee members were traded thick and fast. The of the Collector and the Revisional Authority, in fact, makes no reference either to the definition of relative in the explanation to Section 40(c) or to the resolution providing for recusal of committee members who had their near relations appearing for the interview. The categories excluded from the definition of relatives are also not noticed. Based on inferences drawn from the records produced by the ex-officio respondents, conclusive findings were recorded by the Collector and the appointments of the appellants and four others were set aside. The of the revisional authority is a reiteration of the of the Collector. These have been endorsed in the of the learned Single Judge and the Division Bench. 44. As this Court observed in Charan Lal Sahu (supra), justice is a psychological yearning in which individuals seek acceptance of their viewpoint by having an opportunity, before their rights are affected. Lord Megarry in John vs. Rees and Others (supra) rightly emphasized the feeling of resentment to those who find that decision against them has been made behind their back. Those are telling observations. 45. The material that worms into the record behind the back of a party does have a tendency to condition the minds of the reviewing authorities. Very often, it may happen that the said one-sided version smuggled in stealthily, may cloud their mind and make them oblivious to the plight of the party who is denied audi alteram partem. Strong convictions then get mollified; the initial sense of outrage gets dampened and the feeling of unfairness that engulfed one at the commencement of the proceeding may slowly wither away. The opposing parties to justify the breach may then hunt for a rule from the basket of exceptions to the principles of audi alteram partem and offer it, to lend a veneer of legitimacy to the originally made in violation of the principles of natural justice.