● 694. Non-interference with religious practices or caste prejudices- (a) Interference with genuine religious practices or caste prejudices of prisoners should be avoided. But no relaxation of the working rules shall be allowed. Prisoners shall be permitted to perform their devotions at suitable times and in suitable places. Care should be taken to see that this principle is not made the cloak for frivolous complaints or for attempts to escape from jail labour or discipline. If the Superintendent feels any doubt as to the validity of any plea advanced by a prisoner on the grounds of caste or religion he should refer the matter for the s of the Inspector General whose decision shall be final. ● 741. Sickness in cells - In case of sickness immediate notice shall be given by the guard to the Head Warder on duty by passing the ward from sentry to sentry. The Head Warder shall at once report the case to the Medical Subordinate, who shall visit the cell, and, if necessary, remove the prisoner to hospital, and inform the Superintendent, Medical Officer and Jailor of the circumstance at their next visit. Two prisoners shall, under no circumstances whatever, be confined in one cell except in the case of female prisoners condemned to death. If male condemned prisoners or dangerous lunatics have to be watched by convicts, they must remain outside the grated door of the cell. Convict sweepers, cooks and watermen may enter the cells when necessary, accompanied by a warder. Food shall [2024] 10 S.C.R. 589 Sukanya Shantha v. Union of India & Ors. be cooked and carried to the cells by prisoner-cooks of suitable caste, under the superintendence of a jail officer. ● 793. percentage of prisoners employed as jail servants - The total number of prisoners employed regularly in essential jail services as cooks, barbers, water-carriers, sweepers, etc., shall not exceed 10 per cent. of the whole number of prisoners in Central and 1st or 2nd class District jails and 12 percent. in 3rd class District jails. (For the proportion of cooks, sweepers and hospital attendants to the number of prisoners to be attended to, see Rule 789.) The appointment of cooks is regulated by Rule 1117. The barber should belong to the A class. Sweepers should be chosen from the Mether or Hari caste, also from the Chandal or other castes, if by the custom of the district they perform similar work when free, or from any caste if the prisoner volunteers to do the work. Hospital attendants should be selected from prisoners passed for light work or those who have completed at least half their sentences. Hospital attendants shall wear a plain square red badge, 5 cm. x 5 cm., on the left breast of the kurta. Prisoners in the “convalescent and infirm” gang may be put to this duty under the Medical Officer’s s. If there is a large number of serious cases in hospital, the proportion of one attendant to 10 patients may be temporarily exceeded; with this exception, Superintendents must see that no more than the authorised percentage of prisoners is employed as jail servants or as convict officers.