17.10. P.W.10 – Basawaraj, ASI of DCIB Unit, deposed about the lodging of the complaint by the complainant and the registration of the First Information Report. He further deposed about the institution of trap on the respondent and drawing of entrustment mahazar (Ex.P2). 17.11. PW.12 – Maheshwargouda is the Investigating Officer, who deposed that on 05.08.2009, the complainant came and lodged a complaint and also produced the tape rec conversation recorded by him; on the basis of the same, FIR (Ex.P26) was registered against the respondent. He narrated in detail about the trap proceedings conducted on 05.08.2009 and successful completion of the same and drawing of seizure mahazar and material objects. Thus, PW.10 and P.W.12 consistently and categorically deposed about the demand and acceptance of bribe amount by the respondent and also recovery of tainted currency notes from the possession of the respondent and the same was reiterated by them in their cross-examination, which clearly corroborated with the evidence of P.W.l to P.W.3. 18. On the side of the respondent, no oral and documentary evidence were adduced to substantiate his stand. Though the learned counsel for the respondent made elaborate cross-examination, nothing was 1488 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports elicited to disbelieve the evidence of prosecution side witnesses. 19. Thus, from the aforesaid materials, it is absolutely clear that the evidence of P.W.1 to P.W.3 read with the evidence of P.W.4 and P.W.5 along with Investigating Officers (P.W.10 and P.W.12) who supported the case of the prosecution in entirety about ‘demand’ and ‘acceptance’ of the bribe amount and also recovery of the same from the possession of the respondent. 20. The main contention of the learned senior counsel for the respondent is that the bill was passed on 29.07.2009 and it was sent for preparation of cheque to P.W.4 on the same day itself and the cheque (Ex.P19) was also made ready on 30.07.2009 and hence, on the date of alleged trap i.e., on 05.08.2009, there was no work pending with the respondent and he did not demand or accept bribe from the complainant. However, the said cheque was not issued to the complainant and neither any intimation in this regard was sent to the school authorities, till 05.08.2009 nor was the complainant informed that the cheque was already ready. That apart, no plausible reason was adduced on the side of the respondent, as to why, it was retained in the office of the Sub Treasury without being issued to the party concerned. It is a common knowledge that when the bill was submitted to the office of Sub Treasury for sanction, only after issuance of the cheque to the concerned, the work will be treated as completed. In the instant case, no cheque was issued, and it was kept pending as on the date of trap. Therefore, the contention so made on the side of the respondent cannot be countenanced by us. 21. It is settled law that the two basic facts viz., ‘demand’ and ‘acceptance’ of gratification have been proved, the presumption under Section 20 can be invoked to the effect that the gratification was demanded and accepted as a motive or reward as contemplated under Section 7 of the Act.