Section 13(2)(f) on the other hand, relates to the rule making power to 1768 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports prescribe the procedure for obtaining a mineral concession in respect of any land in which the minerals vest in a person other than the Government, and the terms on which and conditions subject to which such a permit, license or lease may be granted or renewed. 10.8.2 In exercise of the rule-making power under Section 13 of the Act, the Central Government has enacted the Mineral Concession Rules, 1960, to provide, inter-alia, for the procedure for obtaining mineral concessions in respect of various categories of lands, the terms on which and conditions subject to which such a permit, license or lease may be granted or renewed. 10.8.3 Chapter IV of the Rules governs all matters connected with grant of mining leases in respect of land in which minerals vest in the Government. Applications for mining lease is to be made to the State Government in the manner prescribed under Rule 22. Rule 22(4) prescribes the manner in which the State Government is to act upon receipt of an application for grant of mining license. First, the State Government is required to take a decision as to the precise area for the said purpose and communicate such decision to the applicant. On receipt of communication from the State Government of the precise area to be granted, the applicant shall submit a mining plan within a period of six months or such other period as may be allowed by the State Government, to the Central Government for its approval. Thereafter, the applicant shall submit the mining plan, duly approved by the Central Government or by an officer duly authorised by the Central Government, to the State Government to grant mining lease over that area. The procedure for approval of mining plans, by the Central or State Government, as the case may be, has been detailed under Rule 22BB. 10.8.4 Rule 31 provides that where, on an application for the grant of a mining lease, an has been made for the grant of such lease, a lease deed in Form K is required to be executed by the State Government within six months of the granting lease. The State Government may, after giving an opportunity of being heard and for reasons to be recorded [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1769 Mineral Area Development Authority & Anr. v. M/s Steel Authority of India & Anr. Etc. in writing and communicated to the applicant, also refuse, in the manner specified under Rule 26, to grant a mining lease over whole or part of the area applied for. 10.8.5 Rule 27 prescribes the general conditions to which mining leases, in respect of land in which minerals vest in the Government, shall be subject to. The relevant portion of said Rule is extracted hereinunder for easy reference: “27. Conditions :- (1) Every mining lease shall be subject to the following conditions :- xxx xxx xxx (c) the lessee shall pay, for every year, except the first year of the lease, such yearly dead rent at the rates specified in the Third Schedule of the Act and if the lease permits the working of more than one mineral in the same area the State Government shall not charge separate dead rent in respect of each mineral: Provided that the lessee shall be liable to pay the dead rent or royalty in respect of each mineral whichever be higher in amount but not both; (d) the lessee shall also pay, for the surface area used by him for the purposes of mining operations, surface rent and water rate at such rate, not exceeding the land revenue, water and cesses assessable on the land, as may be specified by the state Government in the lease; xxx xxx xxx (t) the lessee shall pay to the occupier of the surface of the land such compensation as may become payable under these rules; (u) the lessee shall comply with the Mineral Conservation and Development Rules framed under section 18;” 10.8.6 While the aforesaid provisions contained in Chapter IV relate to mining leases in respect of land in which minerals vest in the Government, Chapter V prescribes the procedure for obtaining a mining lease in respect of land in which minerals vest exclusively in a person other than the 1770 [2024] 7 S.C.R.