The Court in the earlier round of litigation would conceivably have been justified in rejecting the challenge to the of the High Court but nonetheless held that closure was a matter of last option and that an opportunity for remediation ought to be granted. At the same time, while imposing an environmental compensation quantified at Rs. 100 crores, this Court clarified that TNPCB would be acting within the scope of its statutory powers including in directing closure, in the future. As the Court held: “50. … we make it clear that this will not stand in the way of the TNPCB issuing directions to the appellant 1132 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Company, including a direction for closure of the plant, for the protection of environment in accordance with law. 51. We also make it clear that the award of damages of Rs 100 crores by this against the appellant Company for the period from 1997 to 2012 will not stand in the way of any claim for damages for the aforesaid period or any other period in a civil court or any other forum in accordance with law.”7 22. The tenor of the reasoning and the directions of this Court, therefore, leave no manner of doubt that the industrial establishment was not exculpated of its liability for environmental violations. The High Court has, in this backdrop, undertaken a copious analysis of the grounds on which action adverse to the unit has been taken both by the TNPCB and the State Government. 23. In the notes of submissions which have been tendered before this Court, an alternative perspective on facts has been sought to be established. We are not inclined in the exercise of the jurisdiction under Article 136 of the Constitution to re-appreciate the findings of facts which have been arrived at by the High Court. The High Court, it must be noted, was exercising its jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution to judicially review the findings of statutory authorities and bodies entrusted with requisite powers under the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution Act) 1974 and the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act 1981. Apart from the exercise of jurisdiction by the statutory authorities, the proceedings before this Court had been preceded by an evaluation by the High Court which is not shown to suffer from error that would warrant the invocation of the jurisdiction under Article 136 of the Constitution. No special circumstances exist which justify the exercise of discretion by this Court nor is the conscience of the Court shocked by the of the High Court. 24. The closure of the industry is undoubtedly not a matter of first choice. The nature of the violations and the repeated nature of the breaches coupled with the severity of the breach of environmental norms would in the ultimate analysis have left neither the statutory 7 Sterlite Industries (supra). [2024] 2 S.C.R. 1133 Vedanta Limited v. The State of Tamil Nadu & Ors authorities nor the High Court with the option to take any other view unless they were to be oblivious of their plain duty.