The in TMA Pai [supra] describes India as ‘a land of diversity – of different castes peoples, communities, languages, religions and culture’. It was this inherent diversity that perhaps led the Constitution makers to make specific provisions to guard and celebrate the cultural, religious and linguistic diversity. The Constitution thus provided minorities, based on religion or language, the right to establish and administer, educational institutions of their choice. The right was geared towards educational institutions as it was felt that education forms the bedrock of the identity of the next generation of individuals which would help preserve, protect and further the cultural, religious and linguistic diversity. 6. This diversity is not a coincidence in India and is a product of inherent genetic built of Indian society. The citizens of this land mass, which we call India, or Bharat, are therefore inherently pluralistic and organically imbibe within them the ideals of religious, cultural and linguistic diversity. It is a function of this cultural synthesis that almost accidently and not necessarily by design, the fundamental rights are also provided for in the Constitution at two separate levels or units – the individual; and the group. The rights against arbitrariness, for equality, freedom of speech/ move freely/reside and settle/profession, freedom of life and liberty, freedom of religion, etc. are granted at an individualistic level. 7. At the same time, the freedom of trade, freedom of association, rights against untouchability, right to manage religious institutions and the right establish and administer educational institutions, are granted to group(s) or specific groups. The said individual rights and their interplay with groups rights colour the palette of Indian constitutional law and would assist the Court in chartering its future course. 8. The specific rights to the minorities under the Constitution, over and above the existing individual and group rights available to all citizens and/or groups which are agnostic to minority/non-minority classification, are to be theorised within the distinctive context of Indian nationhood. It is necessary to note that India is a “nation”, but not in the euro-centric sense, which merges linguistic identity with a colonial or medieval past. India is a continuum, it is a civilization that has perpetuated its course through the annals of history, carrying with it the lives and stories of every hue of human existence. India’s [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1923 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. national identity merges many diverging groups, communities, sects, etc. which often intersect with each other in varying fashions. This diversity does not rob the country of a unified past, a shared history and composite present. It is, in fact, this kaleidoscope of intermingling and off-shooting cultures that builds the national identity or the national character. The uniqueness of India, its nationalism, its shared cultural history and the context in which the Constitution came in to being, gives life to the provisions of Constitution. It is with this broad understanding that this Court would seek to locate the answers to the questions presented before it. B. undIsputed facts 9.