Supreme Court Reports (b) As per the information disclosed by the Resolution Professional on August 14, 2020, the CIRP Costs includes: i. Operating and Process Costs (Rs. 27.16 Crores, as of August 31, 2020) which includes fees, charges, salaries of Asset Protection Team (APT) of the Corporate Debtor and other costs incurred by the Resolution Professional in running the operations of the Corporate Debtor as a going concern; ii. Interim Finance Cost (Rs. 54.4 Crores, as of August 31, 2020). […] (d) The Resolution Professional has also disclosed to the Resolution Applicant that the Corporate Debtor has a positive bank balance of approx. Rs. 92 Crores and estimates to collect a further sum of Rs. 40 Crores in the next 2-3 months. […] (f) The Resolution Professional has estimated an approx. sum of Rs. 240 Crores (as of August 31, 2020) towards parking charges for aircrafts and airport space lease charges. Such amounts are good faith estimates of the Resolution Professional based on previous invoices as it has not received any invoice/ demand from any of the lessors/ owners for such amounts. The Resolution Applicant shall endeavour to negotiate the parking fee and rental fee for the Corporate Debtor with the various airports and will endeavour that the cost for such heads is kept to the minimum. […] (h) Based on the information provided, the Resolution Applicant have assumed that the amounts standing to the credit of the bank account of the Corporate Debtor (including amounts estimated to be received subsequently) are sufficient to cover for the CIRP Costs of the Corporate Debtor (excluding parking charges, rental charges, employee dues, taxes etc). Accordingly, the Resolution [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2065 State Bank of India & Ors. v. The Consortium of Mr. Murari Lal Jalan and Mr. Florian Fritsch & Anr. Applicant has set aside a sum of Rs. 25 Crores as CIRP Costs towards payment of any such costs until the Approval Date. Any expenses incurred by the Corporate Debtor from the Approval Date until the Effective Date will be incurred out of the positive bank balance of the Corporate Debtor. (i) As stated in Clause 6.3.1(d) above, if the CoC agrees to offer a clear and marketable title in the BKC Property (one floor) to the Resolution Applicant, then the Resolution Applicant shall settle the airport and parking charges (estimated at approx. Rs. 240 Crores, as of August 31, 2020). Savings from such charges will be distributed to the Assenting Financial Creditors. If the airport and parking charges over are over Rs. 245 Crores, then amounts over and above Rs. 245 Crores will be first paid out of Rs. 25 Crores reserved as CIRP Costs (if there are no outstanding CIRP Costs) and then out of the positive cash flows of the Corporate Debtor. Any amounts over and above such amounts will be shared between the Resolution Applicant and the Assenting Financial Creditors in equal proportion. (j) The Resolution Applicant states that if the CIRP Cost is less than the estimated amounts and the airport dues are less than Rs.