x. The assertion that ‘neutral’ institutions or non-minority institutions would in the natural course of things be ‘majoritarian’ or that Article 30 contemplates constitutionally protecting certain educational spaces from such ‘majoritarianism-by-default’ tendencies, is wholly erroneous. The purpose of Article 30 is not to create ‘minority only’ ghettos rather provide positive rights to the minorities to establish educational institutions of their choice and kind. xi. Article 30, as a feature of the Constitution, provides important rights which function within the larger penumbra of fundamental rights. There is substantial interplay, intermixing and balancing of rights inter se within the fundamental rights and Article 30 is not absolute and certainly do not exist in a silo. xii. The crux of Article 30(1) lies in its mandate to ensure parity between non-minority [or ‘neutral’] institutions and minority institutions. Its fundamental aim is to prevent any form of discrimination or preferential treatment to non-minority communities, thereby advocating for equal treatment under the law for one and all. This provision underscores that no specific category or type of institution should be disadvantaged or unduly favoured over another within the legal framework. xiii. To assume that the minorities of the country require some ‘safe haven’ for attaining education and knowledge is 2038 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports wholly incorrect. The minorities of the country have not just joined the mainstream but comprise an important facet of the mainstream itself. The institutions of national character of the country always serve the interests of the minorities and are diverse centers of learning. xiv. The UGC Act or the in Yashpal [supra], in no manner, comes to the aid of the parties challenging the correctness of the in Azeez Basha [supra]. xv. The amendment in the NCMEI Act does not come to the aid of the parties questioning the correctness of the decision in Azeez Basha [supra]. 267. The reference is answered in the above terms. The matters may be placed before an appropriate bench as per the prevailing rules. Result of the case: Reference Answered. †Headnotes prepared by: Bibhuti Bhushan Bose