It was further contended that the potential adverse impacts of using HT crops along with their matching herbicides have to be understood and are enumerated as under: a. Herbicide use destroys all the vegetation in and around the fields where the HT crop is cultivated, which is used by the rural community in significant ways. b. In India, the biodiversity found in and around fields is not considered “weeds” and therefore, not useless, as they are in the west. These plants, so called “weeds”, provide: i. leafy green vegetables and many kinds of saag like chaulai and bathua that provide valuable nutrition for free to poor rural families; 2030 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports ii. they also provide green fodder for rural livestock; iii. such “weeds” are also medicinal plants that traditional healers such as vaids and hakeems use in the treatment of human and animal diseases. c. Introduction of the HT trait will destroy the opportunity to do mixed farming which is prevalent in Indian agriculture. d. The HT trait will also strike against any efforts to promote organic agriculture, since it involves heavy chemical use of herbicides. e. The use of herbicides and their accumulation in the soil will damage soil health and the chemicals will enter the food chain to the detriment of human health. 17.14 It was also contended that GM has never been tested as an HT crop, despite having HT properties and in fact, India does not have any regulatory guidelines and protocols for testing of HT crops. Reliance has been placed on the TEC Report and our attention was drawn to various portions thereof, which we shall consider later. Similarly, reference was made to the 301st Report of the PSC. 17.15 Sri Parikh also submitted that the manner in which the conditional clearance was granted makes apparent the loopholes in the regulatory system. In this regard, it was submitted that on 21.03.2018, a decision was taken by GEAC in its 134th meeting to generate additional data on honey bees and other pollinators on soil microbial diversity. The same was given a go by subsequently after receipt of a letter from Prof. Deepak Pental dated 10.05.2022 and contrary to precautionary principles, it was decided by GEAC in its 147th Meeting dated 18.10.2022 that the field demonstration studies with respect to the effect of GE mustard on honey bees and other pollinators may be conducted post-environmental release. The said decision, besides causing adverse effects on the environment, would also be against the principle of assessing any harmful socio-economic impact in time, i.e., before granting approval. 17.16 Our attention was also drawn to various points regarding conflict of interest, details of which have also been given in [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2031 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. the written submissions, which we shall advert to during the course of our discussion. 17.17 It was next submitted that the 1989 Rules are not compliant with the CPB, which was ratified by India on 17.01.2003 and which came into effect on 11.09.2003.