[Para 12.14] 1942 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Constitution of India – Entry 8-List II – Intoxicating liquor – Contours of interpretation: Held: [Per B.V. Nagarathna, J.] In deciding on “intoxicating liquors”, the contours of interpretation must be concerned only with the very nature of the product of “intoxicating liquors” rather than the entire industry concerning alcohol – Entry 8-List II provides the legislative competence to States to regulate production, manufacture, possession, transport, purchase and sale of only “intoxicating liquors” – It must follow from this that what is being produced or manufactured or possessed or transported or purchased or sold must actually be “intoxicating liquors” and not any other alcoholic product. [Para 12.16] Constitution of India – Entry 52-List I – Industries (Development and Regulation) Act – Item 26 of the First Schedule – s.18G: Held: [Per B.V. Nagarathna, J.] The IDRA is enacted by Parliament under Entry 52-List I taking control of, inter alia, “Fermentation Industries” as noted in Item 26 of the First Schedule to the said Act – Section 18G deals with any article or class of articles relatable to any scheduled industry i.e. “Fermentation Industries” in the instant cases – The Explanation to Section 18G states that the expression “article or class of articles” relatable to any scheduled industry i.e. “Fermentation Industries” herein includes any article or class of articles imported into India which is of the same nature or description as the article or class of articles, manufactured or produced in the scheduled industry – The explanation is inclusive and not an exhaustive one – For immediate reference Item 26 of the First Schedule of the IDRA pursuant to the 2016 amendment is “The fermentation industries (other than potable alcohol): (i) Alcohol; (ii) other products of fermentation industries” – The Item 26 w.e.f. 14.05.2016, has been amended to clarify that “Fermentation Industries” refers to industries others than potable alcohol – This is for the reason that “intoxicating liquors” in Entry 8-List II is equated to only potable alcohol and rest of the industry of the “Fermentation Industries” other than potable alcohol is a scheduled industry – Once an industry is a scheduled industry under the provisions of IDRA, in the context of Section 18G the Central Government may notwithstanding anything contained in any other provision [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1943 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons of IDRA by a notified provide for regulating the supply and distribution thereof and trade and commerce therein of a product of scheduled industry. [Paras 15.7, 15.8] Constitution of India – Art.254 – Doctrine of repugnancy in the context of the legislative subjects which are enumerated in List III or the Concurrent List: Held: [Per B.V. Nagarathna, J.] Article 254 of the Constitution applies the doctrine of repugnancy in the context of the legislative subjects which are enumerated in List III or the Concurrent List – While applying the principles of repugnancy under Article 254, a sine qua non is to identify the conflict between the laws made by the Parliament and the laws made by the State Legislature – The conflict between the said laws is the basis for the application of Article 254 – The conflict could be direct when both the laws cannot operate together or it could be indirect when the State law entrenches upon a Parliamentary or Central law – But when laws made by the Parliament or the State Legislature can be implemented without there being any conflict, the principle of repugnancy would not apply inasmuch as there would be no contrary results owing to the applicability of both sets of laws – In other words, there cannot be a situation where obeying the State laws would result in disobeying the Parliamentary laws – Thus, when laws are made under an Entry in List III or the Concurrent List by both the Parliament as well as by the State Legislature, the Court must first ascertain whether the two sets of laws can operate harmoniously, if not, whether harmonious interpretation could be given to the said laws so as to avoid a conflict between the two – It is only when there is a conflict between the two sets of laws inasmuch as the State laws would be abridging the Parliamentary law, in such a case, the doctrine of Parliamentary supremacy would apply i.e.