As a result to that extent, the State Legislature would be denuded of its powers to legislate under Entry 24 - List II. It was contended that the industry in respect of which control is assumed for the purpose of their development and regulation have been set out in the First Schedule and in the manner provided in the statute i.e. IDRA which also provides the limit of control to the extent mentioned in the said Act. It was contended that Section 2 has to be read along with the Act and not read de hors the Act. This would mean the provision of the Act would make the control concrete and specific and the manner in which exercise has to be laid down and not some abstract control. Thus, the control has to be concrete and the mode and method of its exercise must be regulated by law. That under the IDRA, Sections 3 to 30 set out various modes and methodology, power and procedure to effectuate the control which the Union acquired by virtue of the declaration contained in Section 2 of the IDRA. On these contentions, it was observed that absence of the words “to the extent herein provided” in Section 2 of the IDRA would not lead to the conclusion that the control assumed was to be something in abstract, total and unfettered and not as per the provisions of the IDRA. It was thus held that to the extent Union acquired control by virtue of declaration in Section 2 of the IDRA as amended from time to time, the power of the State Legislature under Entry 24 - List II to enact any legislation in respect of declared industry so as to encroach upon the field of control occupied by IDRA would be taken away. 13.2.2 In this regard, reliance was placed on Baijnath Kedia vs. State of Bihar, AIR 1970 SC 1436 (“Baijnath [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2129 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons Kedia”). Thus to the extent the provision of the IDRA occupies the field, the State Legislature stands denuded of its power to legislate in respect of such declared industry. Examining the provision of the IDRA, it was held that in pith and substance, the impugned Act was one for acquisition of scheduled undertakings to the corporation, which would in no way come in conflict with any of the provision of the IDRA or would not trench upon any control exercise by the Union under the various provisions of the IDRA. That the IDRA is not concerned with the ownership of industrial undertaking in declared industry except the control over the management of the undertaking by the owner. Thus the legislative power of the State under Entry 24 - List II is eroded only to the extent control is assumed by the Union pursuant to a declaration made by the Parliament in respect of a declared industry as spelt out by the legislative enactment and the field occupied by such enactment is the measure of erosion.