In a series of cases, this Court has directed demolition of unauthorised constructions. This does not appear to have any salutary effect in cases of unauthorised construction coming to this Court. While directing demolition of unauthorised construction, the court should also direct an enquiry as to how the unauthorised construction came about and to bring the offenders to book. It is not enough to direct demolition of unauthorised construction, where there is clear defiance of law. In the present case, but for the observation of the High Court, we would certainly have directed an enquiry to be made as to how the project was conceived and how the agreement dated 4-11-1993 came to be executed.” 1342 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports (iv) In Esha Ekta Apartments Coop Housing Society Limited v. Municipal Corporation of Mumbai,15 it was observed by this Court that the courts are expected to refrain from exercising equitable jurisdiction for regularisation of illegal and unauthorised constructions and the relevant passage of the said decision is extracted below: “1. In the last five decades, the provisions contained in various municipal laws for planned development of the areas to which such laws are applicable have been violated with impunity in all the cities, big or small, and those entrusted with the task of ensuring implementation of the master plan, etc. have miserably failed to perform their duties. It is highly regrettable that this is so despite the fact that this Court has, keeping in view the imperatives of preserving the ecology and environment of the area and protecting the rights of the citizens, repeatedly cautioned the authorities concerned against arbitrary regularisation of illegal construction by way of compounding and otherwise.” “8. At the outset, we would like to observe that by rejecting the prayer for regularisation of the floors constructed in wanton violation of the sanctioned plan, the Deputy Chief Engineer and the appellate authority have demonstrated their determination to ensure planned development of the commercial capital of the country and the s passed by them have given a hope to the law-abiding citizens that someone in the hierarchy of administration will not allow unscrupulous developers/builders to take law into their own hands and get away with it.” “56. We would like to reiterate that no authority administrating municipal laws and other similar laws can encourage violation of the sanctioned plan. The courts are also expected to refrain from exercising equitable jurisdiction for regularisation of illegal and 15 (2013) 5 Supreme Court Cases : (2013) 3 Supreme Court Cases (Civil) 89 [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1343 Rajendra Kumar Barjatya and Another v. U.P. Avas Evam Vikas Parishad & Ors. unauthorised constructions else it would encourage violators of the planning laws and destroy the very idea and concept of planned development of urban as well as rural areas.” (v) The aforesaid view was reiterated in Supertech Limited v. Emerald Court Owner Resident Welfare Association and others16 by holding that illegal constructions have to be dealt with strictly to ensure compliance with rule of law.