1 on 28.7.2003. There is no evidence on record as to the time when injunction was passed by the trial court and the time when the release deed was executed and registered in favour of Harvinder Singh. This apart, sale in violation of an injunction passed by the courts would not render the transaction void ab initio and, at best, proceedings under 39 Rule 2A of the Code can be initiated by the aggrieved party. There is nothing on record suggestive of the fact that respondent-plaintiff initiated any such proceedings against Iqbal Singh or Harvinder Singh. Moreover, the injunction dated 28.7.2003 also lost its life the moment suit for permanent injunction was later dismissed in the year 2004. Counsel for the respondent-plaintiff has failed to cite any provision 1154 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports in law or a precedent that if suit property is transferred in favour of the vendor of a litigant claiming bona fide purchaser during pendency of earlier litigation, he is not entitle to protection under Section 41 of the TP Act irrespective of whether he was aware of pendency of that litigation or otherwise. The release deed in favour of defendant No. 2 and sale deed in favour of the appellants were subject to outcome of suit for injunction that was eventually dismissed by the Court. In this view of the matter, findings of the courts to reject plea of bona fide purchaser of the appellants on account of pendency of suit for permanent injunction are not based upon any legal ground, thus, unjustified.” 11. While allowing the second appeal, the High Court though has upheld the concurrent findings as to the execution of the agreement to sell, and that the appellant had paid Rs. 2.50 lakhs as earnest money to respondent no. 3. Consequently, the High Court gave the alternate relief to the appellant, as indicated above. 12. On behalf of the appellant, we have heard learned counsel Mr. Rameshwar Singh Malik, Sr. Advocate and Mr. Narender Hooda, Sr. Advocate on behalf of respondents 1-2. Though service by way of publication was done for respondents 3 and 4, they have not entered appearance. 13. Mr. Narender Hooda, Sr. Adv for the respondents/defendants has relied on the findings of the High Court to submit that respondents 1-2 made due enquiries about the suit property, however, the revenue records did not indicate that another agreement to sell was executed in favour of the appellant. Further, it is argued that PW-7 had never informed them about the injunction passed in favour of the appellant. Thus, they are the bonafide purchasers for valuable consideration and possession has been taken over by the respondents 1-2 since 2004 subsequent to which, they have renovated the land and installed a pump there as well. 14. Mr. Rameshwar Singh Malik, Sr. Adv on behalf of the appellant/plaintiff would on the other hand submit that the High Court committed a grave error in reversing the concurrent findings of the Courts below. The transaction qua the suit property was executed by the respondents [2024] 5 S.C.R.