82. To appreciate the above contentions, it would be helpful to note the relevant portion of the Gujarat Rules,2005 prior to the 2011 amendment: “In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to Article 309 read with Article 234 of the Constitution of India, the Governor of Gujarat, after consultation with the High Court of Gujarat and the Gujarat Public Service Commission, and in supersession of the Gujarat Judicial Services Recruitment Rules, 1961 hereby makes the following Rules regulating the Recruitment to the Gujarat State Judicial) Service.” 83. The relevant portion of Gujarat Rules,2005(as amended in 2011) is next extracted: [2024] 6 S.C.R. 583 Abhimeet Sinha & Ors. v. High Court of Judicature at Patna & Ors. “In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article a) read with Articles 233 and 234 of the Constitution of India, the Governor of Gujarat after consultation with the High Court of Gujarat hereby makes the following rules further to amend the Gujarat State Judicial Service Rules, 2005.” 84. The omission of the words “and the Gujarat Public Service Commission” in the 2011 Rules is a relevant aspect, that requires attention. Articles 233, Article 234 and 235 in the Constitution which deals with “Subordinate Courts” would bear consideration here. Article 233 provides for the appointment of District Judges without requirement of consultation with Public Service Commission. The Article 234 empowers the Governor of a State to make appointments of persons other than District Judges to the judicial service of a State in accordance with the Rules after consultation with the State Public Service Commission and with the High Court exercising jurisdiction in relation to such State. Article 235 provides for the control of the High Court over the Subordinate Courts. Article 234 is relevant for our purpose: “Appointment of persons other than district judges to the judicial service of a State shall be made by the Governor of the State in accordance with rules made by him in that behalf after consultation with the State Public Service Commission and with the High Court exercising jurisdiction in relation to such State” 85. Since the Rules were framed as per the proviso to Article 309, it is also extracted below for ready reference: “309. Recruitment and conditions of service of persons serving the Union or a State Subject to the provisions of this Constitution, Acts of the appropriate Legislature may regulate the recruitment, and conditions of service of persons appointed, to public services and posts in connection with the affairs of the Union or of any State:Provided that it shall be competent for the President or such person as he may direct in the case of services and posts in connection with the affairs of the Union, and for the Governor of a State or such 584 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports person as he may direct in the case of services and posts in connection with the affairs of the State, to make rules regulating the recruitment, and the conditions of service of persons appointed, to such services and posts until provision in that behalf is made by or under an Act of the appropriate Legislature under this article, and any rules so made shall have effect subject to the provisions of any such Act.” 86.