Mr. M.R. • While undertaking the process of Shamshad, Sr. demolition, the authorities or nominated Adv. officers shall not consider demolition of unauthorized/illegal houses by targeting one house or few houses in a particular neighborhood or the town. 744 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports S.No. TOPIC/ ISSUE COUNSEL’S/ SUMMARY OF SUGGESTIONS PARTY NAME • In case the Appropriate authority is of the opinion that a house or a set of particular houses are liable to be demolished, to ensure fairness and non-discriminatory act of appropriate authorities, the Municipal authority or Appropriate authority shall undertake the overall exercise of identifying illegal constructions and fix the timeline for removal of the encroachment/demolition. • Under no circumstances, one or two houses shall be demolished in a particular neighborhood until the authority is of the opinion that no other house has illegal construction/encroachment etc. • Violation of this guideline shall attract penal consequences against the erring Officers and the aggrieved person shall be adequately compensated for consequential effect of the violation. In addition to this the violation of this guideline shall also amount to contempt of this Court on the lines of violation of the guidelines in terms of the of this Hon’ble Court in D.K. Basu v. State of W.B., (1997) 1 SCC 416 8. COMPENSATORY Mr. C.U. Singh, Damages for Set-Aside Demolition: If the DAMAGES TO Sr. Adv. and proposed demolition is set aside, the owner OWNER NI CASE Ms. Fauzia is entitled to damages for mental agony, OF MALICIOUS Shakil, Adv. harassment, and litigation costs. OR ILLEGAL Compensatory Damages for Illegal DEMOLITION Demolition: • If the demolition is carried out in violation of guidelines or declared illegal by the court, the owner is entitled to compensatory damages, which include: ° Cost of reconstruction of the demolished structure ° Loss of belongings ° Loss of reputation ° Rent paid for alternate accommodation • The court may also direct the authorities to rebuild the structure and award punitive damages. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 745 In Re: Directions in The Matter of Demolition of Structures S.No. TOPIC/ ISSUE COUNSEL’S/ SUMMARY OF SUGGESTIONS PARTY NAME COMPENSATORY Ms. Nitya Appointment of Claim Commissioner: DAMAGES TO Ramakrishnan, • Any judicial officer may be appointed as a OWNER NI CASE Sr. Adv. Claim Commissioner, empowered to grant OF MALICIOUS compensation or restitution to persons OR ILLEGAL whose buildings or structures have been DEMOLITION demolished illegally or arbitrarily by the authority. • s for compensation by the Claim Commissioner shall be treated as decrees of a Civil Court and executed accordingly. Personal Liability of Officers: • If an officer willfully or negligently fails to comply with Supreme Court guidelines, causing damage or loss, they will be personally liable for recovery of damages. • Recovery may occur through salary deductions, forfeiture of entitlements, or other lawful means, subject to a proper inquiry where the officer will be given an opportunity to be heard by the Claim Commissioner. State Compensation Scheme for Illegal Demolition: • The State must establish a scheme to provide relief, restitution, and compensation to persons whose property has been illegally demolished.