Digital Supreme Court Reports by filing, Criminal Miscellaneous Application No.18603/2021, for quashing the said summons and also the complaint case itself. The of the High Court was delivered dismissing the application filed by the appellant on 23.03.2023 and it is this which is under appeal before us. The main reason for dismissal of the appellant’s quashing plea was that the subject-complaint involved adjudication of disputed questions of fact. Referring to the s of this Court in the cases of Neeharika Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. -vs- State of Maharashtra and Ors. [(2021) 19 SCC 401], R.P. Kapur -vs- State of Punjab [AIR 1960 SC 866], State of Haryana and Ors. -vs- Bhajan Lal and Ors. [1992 SCC (Cr.) 426], State of Bihar and Anr. -vs- P. P. Sharma, IAS and Anr. [1992 SCC (Cr.) 192] and lastly Zandu Pharmaceutical Works Ltd. and Ors. -vs- Mohd. Sharaful Haque and Another [2005 SCC (Cr.) 283], the High Court refrained from considering the defence of the accused. 6. In the case of Neeharika Infrastructure Ltd (supra), a three-judge Bench of this Court examined the factors which were to be considered by the High Court for quashing an F.I.R. at the threshold, relating to factors which would apply to a proceeding which forms the subject- matter of the present case. Referring to the in the case of R.P. Kapur (supra), principles for quashing were set down as:- “10.1 The first case on the point which is required to be noticed is the decision of this Court in the case ofc8R.P. Kapur (supra). While dealing with the inherent powers of the High Court under Section 561-A of the earlier Code (which is pari materia with Section 482 of the Code), it is observed and held that the inherent powers of the High Court under Section 561 of the earlier Code cannot be exercised in regard to the matters specifically covered by the other provisions of the Code; the inherent jurisdiction of the High Court can be exercised to quash proceedings in a proper case either to prevent the abuse of the process of any court or otherwise to secure the ends of justice; ordinarily criminal proceedings instituted against an accused person must be tried under the provisions of the Code, and the High Court would be reluctant to interfere with the said proceedings at an interlocutory stage. After observing this, thereafter this Court then carved out some exceptions to the above-stated rule, which are as under: [2024] 1 S.C.R. 1141 Sachin Garg v. State of U.P. and Anr. “(i) Where it manifestly appears that there is a legal bar against the institution or continuance of the criminal proceeding in respect of the offence alleged. Absence of the requisite sanction may, for instance, furnish cases under this category. (ii) Where the allegations in the first information report or the complaint, even if they are taken at their face value and accepted in their entirety, do not constitute the offence alleged; in such cases no question of appreciating evidence arises; it is a matter merely of looking at the complaint or the first information report to decide whether the offence alleged is disclosed or not.