589 M/s Bajaj Alliance General Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Rambha Devi & Ors. the death of respondent’s wife. It was brought to the notice of the Court that the 1994 amendment to the MV Act, replaced “medium goods vehicle” and “heavy goods vehicle”, with “transport vehicle.” The 2-judge bench observed as under: “19. “Light motor vehicle” is defined in Section 2(21) and, therefore, in view of the provision, as then existed, it included a light transport vehicle. xx 20. From what has been noticed hereinbefore, it is evident that “transport vehicle” has now been substituted for “medium goods vehicle” and “heavy goods vehicle”. The light motor vehicle continued, at the relevant point of time to cover both “light passenger carriage vehicle” and “light goods carriage vehicle”. A driver who had a valid licence to drive a light motor vehicle, therefore, was authorised to drive a light goods vehicle as well.” [emphasis supplied] 44.1. In the pertinent , this Court held that the amendments carried out in 1994 had a prospective operation and at the time of the accident (pre-amendment), a driver holding a valid license to drive a ‘Light Motor Vehicle’ was also authorised to drive a ‘light goods vehicle’. However, post-amendment, a separate endorsement would be necessary. Thus, the insurance company was held liable to remit the compensation since the accident occurred before the change in law. 44.2. The above interpretation on prospective application in the context of the 1994 amendment, however does not seem to be correct since the mention of the term ‘Transport Vehicle’, does not exclude transport vehicles that are already classified as ‘LMV’, under Section 10. If this interpretation were accepted, it would imply that medium or heavy vehicles would no longer require ‘specific’ endorsements, as those classes were removed by the amendment. This would lead to impractical outcomes. 44.3. The contention that since Light Motor Vehicles and Transport Vehicles are mentioned separately, those Transport Vehicles which (weighing less than 7,500 kg) fall within the class of LMV would require the driver to have a separate driving license or 590 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports an endorsement does not appeal well to our understanding. This would be contrary to the legislative intent. The classes mentioned therein do not appear like watertight compartments and some degree of overlap is discernible. An LMV license which typically covers two-wheelers may also be used for commercial activities like small-scale deliveries and the driver may not be required to obtain a separate endorsement for the ‘Transport Vehicle’ class. It is difficult to accept the argument that a driving license issued for a particular class is limited and the intention of the legislature was to exclude the Transport Vehicles falling within the LMV class. According to our understanding, the correct way to view the legal implication would be that ‘transport vehicles’ mentioned in Section 10 would cover only those vehicles whose gross vehicle weight is above 7,500 kgs. Such an interpretation aligns with the broader purpose of the amendments and ensures that the licensing regime remains efficient and practical for vehicle owners and drivers.