15. On 12 February 2019, while hearing the appeal against the of the Division Bench, a three-Judge Bench of this Court presided over by Chief Justice Ranjan Gogoi noticed that the High Court relied on the decision in Azeez Basha (supra). It also noticed that the reference in Anjuman-e-Rahmaniya (supra) on the correctness of Azeez Basha (supra) was yet to be determined. The observations in Azeez Basha (supra) that the words “establish” and “administer” in Article 30(1) must be read conjunctively were referred to. Having noticed all of the above, the three-Judge Bench observed that the correctness of the question arising from the decision in Azeez Basha (supra) is unanswered: “1. This Court in S. Azeez Basha and Anr. Vs. Union of India, inter alia, has observed as follows: “It is to our mind quite clear that Art. 30(1) postulates that the religious community will have the right to establish and administer educational institutions of their choice meaning thereby that where a religious minority established an educational institution, it will have the right to administer that. An argument has been raised to the effect that even though the religious minority may not have established the educational institution, it will have the right to administer it, if by some process it had been administering the same before the Constitution came into force. We are not prepared to accept this argument. The Article in our opinion clearly shows that the minority will have the right to administer 1690 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports educational institutions of their choice provided they have established them, but not otherwise. The Article cannot be read to mean that even if the educational institution has been established by somebody else, any religious minority would have the right to administer it because, for some reason or other, it might have been administering it before the Constitution came into force. The words “establish and administer” in the Article must be read conjunctively and so read it gives the right to the minority to administer an educational institution provided it has been established by it. ……….We are of the opinion that nothing in that case justifies the contention raised on behalf of the petitioners that the minorities would have the right to administer an educational institution even though the institution may not have been established by them. The two words in Art. 30(1) must be read together and so read the Article gives the right to the minority to administer institutions established by it. If the educational institution has not been established by a minority it cannot claim the right to administer it under Art. 30(1).” […] 8. The said facts would show that the correctness of the question arising from the decision of this Court in S. Azeez Basha (supra) has remained undetermined. 9. That apart, the decision of this Court in Prof. Yashpal and another vs. State of Chhattisgarh and others and the amendment of the National Commission for Minority Educational Institutions Act, 2004 made in the year 2010 would also require an authoritative pronouncement on the aforesaid question formulated, as set out above, besides the correctness of the view expressed in the of this Court in S. Azeez Basha (supra) which has been extracted above.” (emphasis supplied) [2024] 11 S.C.R.