PW-6 also admitted that deceased Malagounda, his father[(complainant)(PW-1)] and two brothers(Shivanagouda and Banagouda) were arraigned as accused for the murder of Sangound(son of A-4). The incident of murder of Sangound happened two years prior which is far too remote in point of time so as to impute motive to the appellants that in to seek revenge, they had murdered the deceased Malagounda. 55. It has been laid down by this Court in a catena of decisions that motive acts as a double-edged sword. Hence, the very fact that members of the prosecution party were arraigned as accused in the murder of Sangound, son of A-4, this could also have been the motive for the prosecution witness to rope in the accused appellants for the murder of Malagounda. [2024] 5 S.C.R. 197 Babu Sahebagouda Rudragoudar and Others v. State of Karnataka 56. The High Court heavily relied upon the circumstance of recoveries of weapons made at the instance of the accused as incriminating evidence. However, as was rightly pointed out by learned counsel representing the accused appellants, the complainant(PW-1) admitted in his cross-examination that he was shown the weapons of the offence by the police on the date of incident itself. 57. At this stage, we would like to note that the Investigating Officer(PW-27) who investigated the matter, claims to have effected the recoveries in furtherance of the disclosure statements of the accused and testified as below to prove the procedure of disclosure and the discoveries: - “On 1.10.2001 PSI Tikota produced accused Babusaheb Sahebgouda Biradar and Alagond Sahebgouda Biradar who were interrogated and recorded vol. statement of both accused persons. I now see the vol. statement or Alagond which is at Ex.P.15. It bears my signature and the LTM of Alagond. I now see the vol. statement of Babu and it is marked as Ex.P.16 and it bears my signature and the LTM of Babu Biradar. I recorded vol. statement of Babu Sahebgouda Pudragoudar and Alagond Sahebgouda Biradar. And accordingly conducted seizure panchanama and seized two axes and one koyta produced by Pudragoudar i.e. Babu Sahebgouda Pudragoudar, in the field of Anasari. And accordingly also seized one Jambiya produced by Alagond Biradar. I recorded the statements of Krishnaji Govindappa Kulkarni. On 2.10.2001 produced both the accused before the Hon’ble Court. On 3.10.01 I arrested accused Mudakappa Gadigoppa@ Sahebgouda Pudragoudar and the interrogated to him and also recorded his voluntary statement. As per the vol. st. conducted seizure panchanama and seized two sickles, 0 pen shirt which was blood stained, bush-shirt which was blood stained which were belonging to accd. Gradi and one plastic carry bag.Which articles are kept in land of Basappa Gradi.” 58. We would now discuss about the requirement under law so as to prove a disclosure statement recorded under Section 27 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872(hereinafter being referred to as ‘Evidence Act’) and the discoveries made in furtherance thereof. 198 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 59. The statement of an accused recorded by a police officer under Section 27 of the Evidence Act is basically a memorandum of confession of the accused recorded by the Investigating Officer during interrogation which has been taken down in writing.