Before proceeding further we may recall that the punishment awarded to the petitioner is of ‘admonition’. Learned counsel for the respondents submitted that on [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2319 S.P. Pandey v. Union of India & Ors. date, the petitioner has retired from service and any further indulgence would gain no fruitful result even if the punishment of ‘admonition’ is set aside and now the issue involved remains only of academic interest. 12. Be that as it may, we feel it worth mentioning that from the sequence of events on record, it is evident that the entire episode got triggered by the fact that in a civil area, i.e. at a railway crossing, the petitioner, like many other service/civil motor cyclists had overtaken the long queue of cars to position themselves in front row, close to the railway crossing barrier. No doubt, it is expected of every Air Warrior/Airman to uphold highest degree of discipline inside and outside his service place. But at the same time, from the events noticed hereinbefore, it is borne out that the petitioner had overtaken the parked four wheelers and motorcycles on a public road near the railway crossing barrier and had parked his motorcycle in the front row, may be to avoid rush of traffic when the barrier opened. It appears that this gesture of the petitioner was taken as an affront by the Sqn Ldr H.V. Pandey and he approached the petitioner from the rear and forcefully took away the keys of the motorcycle; confiscated the motorcycle on the ground that the petitioner violated traffic rules and general road discipline, ed the petitioner to report to the guard room and took the applicant in custody. It was on his s the petitioner was locked in a cell. The strict action taken by Sqn Ldr H.V. Pandey in a public place over a trivial issue cannot at the same time be appreciated. Even if in the opinion of Sqn Ldr H.V. Pandey the petitioner had committed some wrong in public place, the circumstances of the case required him to have advised the petitioner to mend his ways in future keeping in view the high discipline and dignity of the Air Force. But the manner in which the whole incident was highlighted in full public gaze, and consequent action taken by him, permitting a trivial happening to escalate out of proportion, cannot be appreciated. An offence is an officer and his behaviour should also be officer-like. His behaviour has to set up an example. The incident could have been handled by the officer more appropriately. 2320 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 13. From the record, it is revealed that the petitioner was assured in writing on two occasions that the punishment entry will be expunged. Despite that, the respondent chose to proceed afresh. It gives an indication of vindictiveness and perhaps it was instigated by the officer. 14. For reasons mentioned hereinabove, we are of the considered view that the Summary of Evidence and punishment of ‘admonition” awarded to the applicant deserve to be set aside.