However, the conclusion that the Clause only provides consequences for the non-payment of the balance consideration by the purchaser and not for the non- production of certificates by the vendors is an error apparent on the face of the record. The correctly notes that Clause 3 prescribes that the advance amount paid will be forfeited if the balance is not paid by the petitioner in three months. However, this Court missed that the Clause also provides a consequence for not producing the documents within three months, which is the cancellation of the sale agreements. This Court seems to have missed the phrase “and this agreement of sale will be cancelled..”. If this Court had read “and this agreement of sale will be cancelled” as a consequence of the non-fulfilment of the obligation cast on the purchaser, it could still be argued that it was a probable (though in our opinion, erroneous) view and not an error apparent on the face of the record. However, the completely disregards the phrase “and this agreement of sale will be cancelled” in Clause 3. In paragraph 32 of the judgement, this Court further notes that non-payment of the balance consideration would lead to a severe consequence of “forfeiture”: [2024] 11 S.C.R. 685 M/s Siddamsetty Infra Projects Pvt. Ltd. v. Katta Sujatha Reddy & Ors. “33. Coming to the aforesaid indicators, the language of the agreements makes it clear that severe consequences of forfeiture would ensue if the payment is not made within three months of the date of the agreements.” 25. Clause 3 has two parts. The first part casts an obligation on the purchaser/petitioner and prescribes consequences for it, that is, the forfeiture of the advance paid. The word “and” disjuncts this part from the second part which casts an obligation on the vendors. The second part prescribes the consequence if the vendors do not furnish the documents. 26. This Court further noted that the “language of the agreements” ensures severe consequences of forfeiture if the balance consideration is not paid within three months. This Court further referred to Clauses 21 and 23 to substantiate this interpretation: “32. […] It may be noted that as per Clause 21, the parties had entered into an earlier agreement to sell dated 10.03.1994, which did not materialize and accordingly the agreed price therein was no longer applicable. It is in this context that the fresh agreements were entered into between the parties, so as to provide a last opportunity for them to successfully enter into a sale-purchase agreement. The aforesaid intention of the parties is also made clear through Clause 23 of the agreement to sell, which reads as under: […] 33. The aforesaid clause clearly freezes any enhancement of the agreed sale consideration, which cannot be independent of a fixed time period. A contrary interpretation would render the contract commercially unreasonable and unworkable. The moratorium on the enhancement of rates prescribed under Clause 23 should be interpreted to be predicated on a fixed time and be executable within a reasonable period.