It would be worthwhile to note that Section 15 of the POCSO had undergone a significant change by virtue of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Amendment) Act, 2019 (for short, the “2019 Amendment Act”), whereby several key changes were introduced. We shall discuss the said provision viz-à-viz the unamended provision of Section 15 along with the object and purpose behind the 2019 Amendment Act in more detail in the latter part of this . [2024] 10 S.C.R. 195 Just Rights for Children Alliance & Anr. v. S. Harish & Ors. 51. Section 30 of the POCSO provides for the presumption of culpable mental state and provides that where any offence under the POCSO requires a culpable mental state on the part of the accused, the existence of such mental state on the part of the accused shall be presumed by the Special Court, and that it shall be open for the accused to rebut this presumption. In other words, the accused can prove that he had no such mental state with respect to any offence under the Act. The relevant provision reads as under: - “30. Presumption of culpable mental state. – (1) In any prosecution for any offence under this Act which requires a culpable mental state on the part of the accused, the Special Court shall presume the existence of such mental state but it shall be a defence for the accused to prove the fact that he had no such mental state with respect to the act charged as an offence in that prosecution. (2) For the purposes of this section, a fact is said to be proved only when the Special Court believes it to exist beyond reasonable doubt and not merely when its existence is established by a preponderance of probability. Explanation. – In this section, “culpable mental state” includes intention, motive, knowledge of a fact and the belief in, or reason to believe, a fact.” 52. This Court in its decision in Independent Thought v. Union of India & Anr. reported in 2017 INSC 1030 held that the preamble to the POCSO recognizes and mandates that the Act and its provisions ought to operate and be interpreted in a manner that would be in the best interest and well-being of the child. It should i) ensure that the sexual exploitation and abuse of children are addressed effectively and ii) induce a healthy physical, emotional, intellectual and social development of the child. The relevant observations read as under: - “42. [...] The Preamble to the POCSO Act also recognizes that it is imperative that the law should operate “in a manner that the best interest and well being of the child are regarded as being of paramount importance at every stage, to ensure the healthy, physical, emotional, intellectual and social development of the child”. Finally, 196 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the Preamble also provides that “sexual exploitation and sexual abuse of children are heinous crimes and need to be effectively addressed”.