[2024] 10 S.C.R. 1736 : 2024 INSC 803 K.C. Kaushik and Others v. State of Haryana and Others (Civil Appeal No. 11711 of 2024) 21 October 2024 [Pankaj Mithal and R. Mahadevan,* JJ.] Issue for Consideration Whether retired Lecturers/Principals of Government Aided Private Colleges, who were granted arrears of revised pension, are entitled to interest on delayed payment of revised pension. Headnotes† Haryana Civil Services (Revised Pension) Part I Rules, 2009 – Appellants were Lecturers/Principals from Government Aided Private Colleges in Haryana – Claimed parity with Lecturers/Librarians of Government Colleges for increase of pension based on 2009 Rules – Interest on delayed payment of revised pension sought – Claims rejected – Writ petition filed – During pendency of petition, State agreed to revise pension – Statement made in court on instructions that interest on delayed payment will be made – Single Judge dismissed appeals as withdrawn – State filed LPA to challenge payment of interest on arrears – Division Bench allowed appeal vide impugned – Held, Appellants being fence-sitters not entitled to interest which was not granted to Government College employees – Appeals dismissed: Held: Appellants are retired Lecturers/Principals from Government Aided Private Colleges in Haryana – They claimed parity with Lecturers/Librarians in Government Colleges for increase in pension based on the Haryana Civil Services (Revised Pension) Part I Rules, 2009 which were deemed to have come into force on 01.01.2006 – Respondent authorities denied claims for revision – Writ petitions filed by appellants – During pendency of writ petitions, State agreed to claims for revised pension – State Counsel also gave undertaking based on instructions of an * Author [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1737 K.C. Kaushik and Others v. State of Haryana and Others assistant present in court that interest on delayed payment would be made – Single Judge of High Court recorded statements and dismissed the writ petition filed as withdrawn – Review application by State to review the in respect of payment of interest on the amount of arrears from 01.01.2006 was dismissed with liberty to file before appropriate forum – Letters Patent Appeals filed by State allowed by Division Bench of High Court vide impugned . Retired employees/Lecturers of the Government Colleges were given revised pension with effect from 01.01.2006 once their litigation achieved finality in 2014 – They were not granted interest on delayed pension – Since present Appellants were claiming parity, they should not be entitled to payment of interest – Appellants initiated writ proceedings in 2015 – They waited till rights of the retired employees/Lecturers of the Government Colleges crystalised and thereafter, made representation to Respondent authorities – Hence not entitled to receive interest – To be treated as fence-sitters – Though there may be lapses on part of officials representing the State in furnishing instructions, that by itself will not give room to Appellants to get unjust enrichment – Appeals dismissed. [Paras 17-19] Court should pass s only based on written instructions – enable to Court to fix liability in case of misrepresentation: Held: Appellants’ case rests on the factum recorded by the Single Judge that the Assistant present in Court gave oral instructions to State counsel – No written instruction furnished by the State, matter was not argued on merits, and was passed only on concessions made on behalf of State – Each party should present truthful and accurate information to court to facilitate fair adjudication – Officials/ counsel appearing for the State should have proper written instructions from competent authority – Relying on oral instructions may lead to factual errors, misunderstanding/misrepresentations, etc., compromising integrity of judicial process – Court should pass s only based on written instructions to enable it to fix the liability on correct official(s), responsible for any such wrongful representations/ instructions.