(5) The Management may fill in every temporary vacancy by appointing a person duly qualified to fill such vacancy. The of appointment shall be drawn up in the form prescribed in that behalf, and shall state the period of appointment of such person.” 5. It is the case of the respondent no.1 that on acquiring requisite qualifications for the post of Shikshan Sevak, he submitted several representations to the appellant no.1 for being appointed to the said post, but the same were not considered favourably. In the year 2006, one Mr. B.R. Dhakne, who was working as a Physical Education teacher in the school, was to retire on attaining the age of superannuation. The appellant no.1 claims to have issued an advertisement on 01st June, 2008, published in the daily newspaper, 528 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports ‘Lokmaan’ inviting application for appointment to the post of Shikshan Sevak. The appellants claim that though the respondent no.1 was aware of the said vacancy and the advertisement issued for filling up the vacancy for appointment to the post of Shikshan Sevak, he did not submit his application. Instead, after the post was filled up by the appellants, he challenged the appointment of the respondent no.5 by filing a Writ Petition4 before the High Court. The respondent no.1 separately filed an appeal5 before the School Tribunal, Latur, which was dismissed for want of prosecution. On 31st January, 2007, the respondent no.1 approached the High Court by filing a Writ Petition, which has been decided in his favour by virtue of the impugned . 6. Mr. Adarsh Kumar Pandey, learned counsel for the appellants submits that the High Court has erred in allowing the Writ Petition filed by the respondent no.1 for the reason that it failed to take into consideration the fact that the respondent no.1 was given promotion from the post of a Peon (non-teaching staff) to the post of Shikshan Sevak, which is a teaching post which is in contravention of the provisions of the Act and the Rules. In support of the said submission, he seeks to place reliance on Clause 3 of the Schedule ‘F’ of the Maharashtra Employees of Private School Rules, 1981, that lays down the guidelines for fixation of seniority of non-teaching staff and casts an obligation on the concerned school to maintain a common seniority list of the lower grade staff on the basis of the date of their appointment and further mandates that if any of the lower grade staff improves his qualification as prescribed for the post of Laboratory Assistant or Clerk, then the said employee ought to be given preference by filling up the said post as per his placement in the common list of seniority. It is submitted by learned counsel for the appellants that respondent no.1 was working on the post of a Peon and at best, he could have been promoted in accordance with the placement of his name in the seniority list, to the position of a Laboratory Assistant or Clerk, but to no other post, including the post of Shikshan Sevak, which was under the category of teaching staff.