The then Chief Justice,27 on behalf of the Bench, responded that the Government is not like a private individual who can pick and choose the person with whom it will deal. When the Government is trading with the public, the democratic nature of Government demands equality coupled with an absence of arbitrariness and discrimination in such transactions. The activities of the Government have a public element and, therefore, they should be conducted with fairness and equality. The State need not enter into any contract with anyone, but if it does so, it must do so fairly, without discrimination and without adopting an unfair procedure. 43. In Ramana Dayaram Shetty v. International Airport Authority of India,28 relying upon the principle established by Erusian Equipment (supra), this Court, observed: 25 See paragraphs 7 and 8 of this for specifics of GoM Nos. 243 and 244. 26 [1975] 2 SCR 674 : (1975) 1 SCC 70 27 A.N. Ray, CJI. 28 [1979] 3 SCR 1014 : (1979) 3 SCC 489 1404 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “…This proposition would hold good in all cases of dealing by the Government with the public, where the interest sought to be protected is a privilege. It must, therefore, be taken to be the law that where the Government is dealing with the public, whether by way of giving jobs or entering into contracts or issuing quotas or licences or granting other forms of largesse, the Government cannot act arbitrarily at its sweet will and, like a private individual, deal with any person it pleases, but its action must be in conformity with standard or norms which is not arbitrary, irrational or irrelevant. The power or discretion of the Government in the matter of grant of largesse including award of jobs, contracts, quotas, licences, etc. must be confined and structured by rational, relevant and non-discriminatory standard or norm and if the Government departs from such standard or norm in any particular case or cases, the action of the Government would be liable to be struck down, unless it can be shown by the Government that the departure was not arbitrary, but was based on some valid principle which in itself was not irrational, unreasonable or discriminatory.” 44. These principles were reiterated in Common Cause, A Registered Society v. Union of India,29 where this Court quashed certain petroleum pump allotments made by the Minister in exercise of his discretionary power. This Court observed: “22. The Government today — in a welfare State — provides large number of benefits to the citizens. It distributes wealth in the form of allotment of plots, houses, petrol pumps, gas agencies, mineral leases, contracts, quotas and licences etc. Government distributes largesses in various forms. A Minister who is the executive head of the department concerned distributes these benefits and largesses. He is elected by the people and is elevated to a position where he holds a trust on behalf of the people. He has to deal with the people’s property in a fair and just manner.