Some of the salient aspects concerning the distribution of the legislative powers between Parliament and State Legislature as per the three Lists in the backdrop of the provisions could be alluded to. 6.3 Article 246 of the Constitution deals with the distribution of legislative powers between the Union and the States. The said Article has to be read along with the three Lists, namely, the Union List, the State List and the Concurrent List. The taxing powers of the Union as well as the States are also demarcated as separate Entries in the Union List as well as the State List i.e. List I and List II respectively. The Entries in the Lists are fields of legislative powers conferred under Article 246 of the Constitution. In other words, the Entries define the areas of legislative competence of the Union and the State Legislature. (vide: State of Karnataka vs. State of Meghalaya (2023) 4 SCC 416 para 56), (“State of Karnataka”). 2056 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Interpretation of Legislative Entries: 6.4 On the aspect of interpretation of legislative Entries in the three Lists, the following principles are apposite as discussed in State of Karnataka: (i) The power to legislate, which is dealt with under Article 246 has to be read in conjunction with the Entries in the three Lists which define the respective areas of legislative competence of the Union and State Legislatures. While interpreting these Entries, they should not be viewed in a narrow or myopic manner but by giving the widest scope to their meaning, particularly, when the vires of a provision of a statute is assailed. In such circumstances, a liberal construction must be given to the Entry by looking at the substance of the legislation and not its mere form. However, while interpreting the Entries in the case of an apparent conflict, every attempt must be made by the Court to harmonise or reconcile them. Where there is an apparent overlapping between two Entries, the doctrine of pith and substance is applied to find out the true character of the enactment and the Entry within which it would fall. The doctrine of pith and substance, in short, means, if an enactment substantially falls within the powers expressly conferred by the Constitution upon the Legislature which enacted it, the same cannot be held to be invalid merely because it incidentally encroaches on matters assigned to another Legislature. Also, in a situation where there is overlapping, the doctrine has to be applied to determine to which Entry, a piece of legislation could be related to. In to examine the true character of an enactment or a provision thereof, due regard must be had to the enactment as a whole and to its scope and object. It is said that the question of invasion into another legislative territory has to be determined by substance and not by degree. (ii) In case of any conflict between Entries in List I and List II, the power of Parliament to legislate under List I will supersede when, on an interpretation, the two powers cannot be reconciled.