It is pertinent to note that with regard to signature found in Ex.P7/passport application, no opinion was given by him as to who signed the same. It is crucial to note that evidence of PW-16 is not corroborated by any other evidence. This Court in catena of decisions has held that, without 632 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports independent and reliable corroboration, the opinion of the handwriting experts cannot be solely relied upon to base the conviction. This Court in Padum Kumar v State of Uttar Pradesh reported in (2020) 3 SCC 35 has held as under :- “14. The learned counsel for the appellant has submitted that without independent and reliable corroboration, the opinion of the handwriting experts cannot be relied upon to base the conviction. In support of his contention, the learned counsel for the appellant has placed reliance upon S. Gopal Reddy v. State of A.P. [S. Gopal Reddy v. State of A.P. (1996) 4 SCC 596 : 1996 SCC (Cri) 792], wherein the Supreme Court held as under: (SCC pp. 614-15, para 28) “28. Thus, the evidence of PW 3 is not definite and cannot be said to be of a clinching nature to connect the appellant with the disputed letters. The evidence of an expert is a rather weak type of evidence and the courts do not generally consider it as offering “conclusive” proof and therefore safe to rely upon the same without seeking independent and reliable corroboration. In Magan Bihari Lal v. State of Punjab [Magan Bihari Lal v. State of Punjab (1977) 2 SCC 210 : 1977 SCC (Cri) 313] , while dealing with the evidence of a handwriting expert, this Court opined: (SCC pp. 213-14, para 7) ‘7. …we think it would be extremely hazardous to condemn the appellant merely on the strength of opinion evidence of a handwriting expert. It is now well settled that expert opinion must always be received with great caution and perhaps none so with more caution than the opinion of a handwriting expert. There is a profusion of precedential authority which holds that it is unsafe to base a conviction solely on expert opinion without substantial corroboration. This rule has been universally acted upon and it has almost become a rule of law. It was held by this Court in Ram Chandra v. State of [2024] 9 S.C.R. 633 Yogarani v. State by The Inspector of Police U.P. [Ram Chandra v. State of U.P., AIR 1957 SC 381 : 1957 Cri LJ 559] that it is unsafe to treat expert handwriting opinion as sufficient basis for conviction, but it may be relied upon when supported by other items of internal and external evidence. This Court again pointed out in Ishwari Prasad Misra v. Mohd. Isa [Ishwari Prasad Misra v. Mohd. Isa, AIR 1963 SC 1728] that expert evidence of handwriting can never be conclusive because it is, after all, opinion evidence, and this view was reiterated in Shashi Kumar Banerjee v. Subodh Kumar Banerjee [Shashi Kumar Banerjee v. Subodh Kumar Banerjee, AIR 1964 SC 529] where it was pointed out by this Court that an expert’s evidence as to handwriting being opinion evidence can rarely, if ever, take the place of substantive evidence and before acting on such evidence, it would be desirable to consider whether it is corroborated either by clear direct evidence or by circumstantial evidence.