12.10 Learned trial Judge also found that though the incident was of 7th June 1992 at around 12:00 A.M. and it had been reported to the Investigating Officer at 12:40 A.M., the arrest of the accused persons had been made only on 15th June 1992, which creates a doubt on the prosecution version. This is more so when the distance between the place of occurrence and the police station is hardly 1 to 1 ½ kms. 13. The above points, that we have culled out from the of the learned trial Judge, make it clear that the learned trial Judge has done a very elaborate exercise of discussing the evidence in great detail. We therefore would not like to burden our with more details. The aforesaid points are more than sufficient to come to a conclusion that the prosecution has failed to prove any of the incriminating circumstances beyond reasonable doubt and in no case, the chain of circumstances, which was so interlinked to each other that leads to no other conclusion, than the guilt of the accused persons. We have no hesitation to hold that the findings of the learned trial Judge are based on correct appreciation of the material placed on record. 60 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 14. This elaborate exercise of the learned trial Judge, has been washed away by the learned Division Bench of the High Court in a totally cursory manner. Insofar as the testimony of Beni Prasad (PW-1) and Sumitra Bai (PW-6) is concerned, the Division Bench of the High Court observed thus: “8.…...After considering the entire testimony of Beni Prasad (PW-1) and Sumitra Bai (PW-6) we come to the conclusion that there are improvements and exaggerations in their court statement. But on this ground their whole testimony cannot be brushed out as the principle “Falsus in uno, Falsus in Omnibus” is not applicable in criminal trial. Sometimes, the witnesses are in fear that if their testimony cannot be relied upon by the Court, the main culprit may be acquitted. Therefore, naturally they improve their statement to some extent.” 15. The testimony of S.K. Banerjee/Investigating Officer (PW-15), which has been disbelieved by the learned trial Judge, giving sound reasons, has been believed by the learned Division Bench of the High Court, by placing it in paragraph 12 as under: “12. We do not find any reason to disbelieve the testimony of Investigation Officer who impartially performed his duty with sincerity. He had no enmity with the respondents or relationship with the deceased. Therefore, we are inclined to rely upon his testimony. It cannot be brushed aside simply on the basis of conjectures and surmises in favour of the respondents.” 16. We find that the learned trial Judge had given sound and cogent reasons for discarding the testimony of the IO and the other witnesses. We are of the view that the High Court has totally erred in observing that the trial Judge had brushed aside the evidence of the IO simply on the basis of conjectures and surmises.