Senior counsel appearing on behalf of the eighth respondent has adverted to the provisions of Section 38(3) in terms of which on the occurrence of any casual vacancy, inter alia, in the office of the Mayor, the Corporation is required within a month of the occurrence of the vacancy to elect one of its members as Mayor to hold office for the remainder of the term of office of the predecessor. [2024] 2 S.C.R. 709 Kuldeep Kumar v. U.T. Chandigarh and Others 35. In the underlying writ petition before the Punjab & Haryana High Court, the appellant had, inter alia, sought the setting aside of the election process and for the holding of a fresh election process and consequential reliefs. However, we are of the considered view that it would be inappropriate to set aside the election process in its entirety when the only infirmity which has been found is at the stage when the counting of votes was recorded by the Presiding Officer. Allowing the entire election process to be set aside would further compound the destruction of fundamental democratic principles which has taken place as a consequence of the conduct of the Presiding Officer. 36. This Court has consistently held that free and fair elections are a part of the basic structure of the Constitution.5 Elections at the local participatory level act as a microcosm of the larger democratic structure in the country. Local governments, such as municipal corporations, engage with issues that affect citizens’ daily lives and act as a primary point of contact with representative democracy. The process of citizens electing councillors, who in turn, elect the Mayor, serves as a channel for ordinary citizens to ventilate their grievances through their representatives – both directly and indirectly elected. Ensuring a free and fair electoral process throughout this process, therefore, is imperative to maintain the legitimacy of and trust in representative democracy. 37. We are of the considered view that in such a case, this Court is duty-bound, particularly in the context of its jurisdiction under Article 142 of the Constitution, to do complete justice to ensure that the process of electoral democracy is not allowed to be thwarted by such subterfuges. Allowing such a state of affairs to take place would be destructive of the most valued principles on which the entire edifice of democracy in our country depends. We are, therefore, of the view that this Court must step in in such an exceptional situation to ensure that the basic mandate of electoral democracy at the local participatory level is preserved. Pertinently, this is not an ordinary case of alleged malpractice by candidates in an election, but electoral misconduct by the presiding officer himself. The brazen nature of the malpractice, visible on camera, makes the situation all the more 5 Kihoto Hollohon v. Zachilhu and Ors., [1992] 1 SCR 686 : AIR 1993 SC 412; Indira Nehru Gandhi v. Raj Narain, [1976] 2 SCR 347 : 1975 Supp SCC 1. 710 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports extraordinary, justifying the invocation of the power of this Court under Article 142.