Digital Supreme Court Reports character. Consequently, all the three avenues for appointment to the Higher Judicial service are distinct and the High court was justified in imposing a minimum eligibility requirement of 50% in the written test and the viva voce independently; (vii) Interviews in the present case were conducted by six of the senior-most Judges of the High Court, including the Chief Justice and there is no allegation of mala fides or an attribution of illegality to the interview. Marks in the written examination were disclosed only after the final results were declared. A candidate cannot contend that they were casual in the course of the interview only because they expected to do well in the written examination; (viii) In consequence, no prejudice has been caused to any candidate by the High Court not having disclosed the minimum eligibility cut-off of 50% prior to the date of the interview. No prejudice is caused to any candidate because it cannot be contended that a candidate would have prepared differently if they were made aware of the eligibility requirement; (ix) On the aspect of consultation with the State Government within the ambit of Articles 233 and 235, the High Court has relied on settled precedent, including the decisions of the Constitution Benches of this Court which emphasize that in matters of appointments to the District Judiciary, the High Court remains the sole repository of power; (x) The consistent view of this Court has been that the requirement of minimum marks for interviews in the appointments of District Judges is necessary since the selection has to be made on the basis of merit-cum-seniority; (xi) In the present case, the appellants have sought a mandamus before the High Court for the enforcement of the Resolution of the Full Court of 2013. That being the position, it is not open to them to challenge the ability of the High Court to frame a resolution for modifying the terms of the earlier Resolution dated 29 January 2013; and (xii) As regards the conduct of the State of Haryana, it is apparent that initially the only objection of the State Government was in regard to the non-recommendation of more senior persons in [2024] 2 S.C.R. 1155 Dr Kavita Kamboj v. High Court of Punjab and Haryana & Ors the Service. It is thereafter when an objection was raised by an advocate in a representation to the effect that the cut-off of 50% had not been communicated to the candidates, that this issue has been raised by the State Government. 28. Mr Rameshwar Singh Malik, senior counsel, has urged that: (i) The Rules being silent, the High Court had the power to fill in the gap by the issuance of administrative directions; (ii) Since no amendment of the Rules was being brought about, there was no requirement of consultation with the State Government; and (iii) The criterion which was fixed by the Resolution of the Full Court dated 29 January 2013 is not under challenge and, in fact, the relief which was sought before the High Court was for the restoration of the criteria under the Resolution.