569 Abhimeet Sinha & Ors. v. High Court of Judicature at Patna & Ors. 52. In Shayara Bano v Union of India26, after examining a long line of precedents, the Supreme Court noted that a legislation can also be struck down for being manifestly arbitrary, if it is “irrational, capricious and/or without an adequate determining principle”. This principle of manifest arbitrariness has been highlighted in other decisions of this Court27. The issue to be examined now is whether the vice of arbitrariness is attracted for the Rules prescribing qualifying marks for the viva voce test. 53. The challenge raised on behalf of the writ petitioners to the prescription of minimum marks for viva voce is not uncommon and the precedents suggest that much turns on the nature of the post and the extent of weightage given to viva voce. For the present matters, the distinction between the Bihar Rules, 1951 governing the selection process for higher judiciary, specifically District Judges, and Rule 8(3) of the Gujarat Rules, 2005 which pertains to the recruitment of both Civil and District Judges would need careful consideration. 54. The relevant clauses of Bihar Rules,1951 dealing with the appointment to the Higher judiciary are extracted below for ready reference: “10. candidate will qualify for interview only if he secures minimum 45% marks in each paper and 55% marks in aggregate in the written test. Provided that in case the number of qualified candidates are not adequate, the High Court may, in the interest of judiciary, relax the qualifying marks in aggregate as may be required but this relaxation will not be below 50% in aggregate. 11. The candidates must secure at least 10 marks out of 50 marks in the interview. 12. The candidate must pass both the written test and interview before he is considered for appointment.” 26 [2017] 9 SCR 797 : 2017 (9) SCC 1 27 Association for Democratic Reforms v Union of India, 2024 INSC 113; Joseph Shine v Union of India 2019 (3) SCC 39; Lok Prahari v Union of India 2018(6) SCC 1; Shayara Bano v Union of India, 2017 (9) SCC 1 570 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 55. The significance of interview for selection in judicial service can be best understood from the opinion of Justice O Chinappa Reddy J in Lila Dhar v State of Rajasthan28: “5. …It is now well recognised that while a written examination assesses a candidate’s knowledge and intellectual ability, an interview test is valuable to assess a candidate’s overall intellectual and personal qualities. While a written examination has certain distinct advantage over the interview test there are yet no written tests which can evaluate a candidate’s initiative, alertness, resourcefulness, dependableness, cooperativeness, capacity for clear and logical presentation, effectiveness, in discussion, effectiveness in meeting and dealing with others, adaptability, , ability to make decision, ability to lead, intellectual and moral integrity. Some of these qualities may be evaluated, perhaps with some degree of error, by an interview test, much depending on the constitution of the interview Board.” 56.