Digital Supreme Court Reports set aside on certain specified grounds. In the very same decision taking note of the opinion as is in “Russel on Arbitration”, reiterated the need for the Court to look at the substance of the findings, rather than its form, stood reiterated and the need for adopting an approach of reading the award in a fair and just manner, and not in what is termed as “an unduly literal way”. All that is required is as to whether the reasons borne out are intelligible or not for adequacy of reasons cannot stand in the way of making the award to be intelligibly readable. 18. Emphasizingly, it is reiterated that if the view taken by the Arbitrator is a plausible view, no interference on the specified grounds is warranted (Konkan Railway Corpn. Ltd. v. Chenab Bridge Project 7). 19. It is also a settled principle of law that an award passed by a technical expert is not meant to be scrutinised in the same manner as is the one prepared by a legally trained mind (Delhi Airport Metro Express Private Limited v. Delhi Metro Rail Corporation Limited8). 20. We are dealing with an award passed on 18th February, 2003, prior to the amendment brought in Section 34 by virtue of the Arbitration and Conciliation (Amendment) Act, 2015. For the purpose of ready reference the relevant portion of the amended and the unamended provisions are extracted as under :- “Prior to 2015 Amendment 34. Application for setting aside arbitral award. - (1) Recourse to a court against an arbitral awärd may be made only by an application for setting aside such award in accordance with sub-section (2) and sub-section (3). (2) An arbitral award may be set aside by the court only if- … (v) the composition of the Arbitral Tribunal or the arbitral procedure was not in accordance with the agreement of the parties, unless such agreement was in conflict with a provision of this Part from which the parties cannot 7 (2023) 9 SCC 85 (Three Judge Bench) 8 (2022) 1 SCC 131 (Two Judges Bench) [2024] 1 S.C.R. 293 S.V. Samudram v. State of Karnataka & Anr derogate, or, failing such agreement, was not in accordance with this Part; or (b) the court finds that— (i) the subject-matter of the dispute is not capable of settlement by arbitration under the law for the time being in force, or (ii) the arbitral award is in conflict with the public policy of India. Explanation.-Without prejudice to the generality of sub- clause (ii), it is hereby declared, for the avoidance of any doubt, that an award is in conflict with the public policy of India if the making of the award was induced or affected by fraud or corruption or was in violation of Section 75 or Section 81. (Emphasis supplied) Post 2015 Amendment 34. Application for setting aside arbitral award.—(1) Recourse to a Court against an arbitral award may be made only by an application for setting aside such award in accordance with sub-section (2) and sub-section (3).