Such a condition cannot be a condition of bail. 108 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 8. In view of sub-section (2) of Section 441 of the CrPC, the conditions imposed by the Court while granting bail always stand incorporated in the bail bond executed by the accused. Therefore, the accused is bound by the conditions imposed while granting bail. If the accused, after being enlarged on bail, commits a breach of bail conditions or commits any offence, the Courts always have the power to cancel the bail. 9. A condition cannot be imposed while granting bail which is impossible for the accused to comply with. If such a condition is imposed, it will deprive an accused of bail, though he is otherwise entitled to it. CONDITION OF DROPPING PIN ON GOOGLE MAP 10. Firstly, we will deal with the issue of the condition of dropping a PIN on Google Maps. The condition imposed on the appellant of dropping a PIN on Google Map gives an impression that the condition will enable the first respondent Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) to monitor the movements of the accused on a real-time basis, which will be violative of the right to privacy guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution of India. To understand the technical aspects of “dropping a PIN on Google Map”, we issued a notice to Google LLC, having its office in the USA. Accordingly, Shri R. Suresh Babu, authorised signatory of Google LLC, has filed an affidavit. Paragraphs 5 to 10 of his affidavit read thus: “5. Google Maps is a web and app-based service that enables users to search for and navigate to local places. It inter alia offers real-time traffic conditions, and route planning for travelling by foot, car, bike, air, and public transportation. Google Maps can be accessed through the Google Maps application available on mobiles or through a web browser at www.google.com/maps. 6. One of the features available to users on Google Maps is the ability of users to drop a ‘PIN’ on a location of their choosing on the map. Dropping a PIN, allows the user to mark or identify a location on the map without necessarily requiring access to the user’s location data. Users may drop a PIN either on the mobile application or on the web browser. To drop a PIN, a user may either: [2024] 7 S.C.R. 109 Frank Vitus v. Narcotics Control Bureau & Ors. a. press and hold the desired location where the PIN is to be dropped on the map on the mobile application; or b. click on the desired location on the map on a web browser. 7. Upon dropping the PIN, the user dropping the PIN can identify the specific coordinates of the location on the map. Through the Google Maps app or through a web browser, the user dropping the PIN may opt to get directions to the location, mark the location with a label, add a business address to the location, or share the location with another user.