The charging section provided that the tax was “in respect of all passengers carried and goods transported by motor vehicles at such rate not exceeding one-eight of the value of the fare or freight.” This Court held that the tax was on passengers and goods which could be traced to Entry 56 of List II of the Seventh Schedule. As regards the measure of the levy, it was held that that the measure was furnished by the amount of the fare and freight charged. 286. It is a settled position that the measure of tax is not a true test of the nature of tax.364 The standard adopted as a measure of tax may be a relevant consideration in determining the nature of tax, but is not conclusive. In Sir Byramjee Jeejeebhoy v. The Province of Bombay,365 the Bombay Provincial Legislature levied ‘urban immovable property tax’ at ten percent of the annual letting value of lands and buildings. The Bombay High Court upheld the validity of the levy. Justice Broomfield observed that the power to impose taxes on lands and buildings meant the power to impose taxes on persons, owners, or occupiers as the case may be in respect of these properties. Justice Harilal Kania (as the learned Chief Justice then was) observed that the adoption of the annual letting value as the standard for fixing the tax rate did not necessarily make it a tax on income. The learned Judge further observed that the standard on which the tax is levied does not determine the nature of the tax. 287. In Ralla Ram v. The Province of East Punjab,366 the issue that fell for consideration of the Federal Court was whether the provisions 361 Federation of Hotel & Restaurant Association of India v. Union of India (1989) 3 SCC 634 [37] 362 B Shama Rao v. Union Territory of Pondicherry, 1967 SCC OnLine SC 29 363 [1962] 1 SCR 517 364 R R Engineering Co. v. Zilla Parishad, Bareilly (1980) 3 SCC 380 [16] 365 1942 SCC OnLine Bom 30 366 1948 SCC OnLine FC 9 [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1723 Mineral Area Development Authority & Anr. v. M/s Steel Authority of India & Anr. Etc. of the Punjab Urban Immoveable Property Tax Act 1940 were ultra vires the legislative powers of the Provincial Legislature. Section 3 of the legislation levied a tax on lands and buildings at a rate not exceeding twenty percent of the annual value. It was contended that the levy was in substance a tax on income since the measure adopted, that is the annual value of lands and buildings, was also used to calculate income from property. Justice Fazl Ali observed that annual value is not necessarily actual income, but only a standard by which income may be measured. The learned Judge analyzed the substance of the impugned levy to observe that the legislation used annual value merely for the purpose of determining the value of the property to be taxed. The Court observed that if a tax is levied on property, it would not be irrational to correlate it to the value of the property and to make some kind of annual value the basis of the tax without intending to tax income.