As discussed hereinbefore in paragraph 40 of the , the Board of Directors of the defendant company, passed a resolution dated 20.04.1992 to the effect that the company had become a sick company for the purposes of the 1985 Act and thus a reference to the BIFR was required to be made. In accordance with the resolution, a reference was accordingly made under Section 15(1) of the 1985 Act. Subsequently, a bench of the BIFR took up the reference of the defendant company for consideration and vide dated 06.11.1992, inter alia, decided that the company fulfilled all the criteria prescribed under Section 3(1)(o) of the 1985 Act for being declared a sick company. The bench also granted the defendant company and the Government of India time till 31.03.1993 to submit a proposal for rehabilitation of the company for the consideration of the bench. 70. The defendant company continued to remain a sick company under the 1985 Act and proceedings before the BIFR continued and it was only on 27.06.2013, after a detailed consideration of the progress made by the company towards revival, that the BIFR declared the defendant company to have ceased to be a sick industrial company. Consequently, the defendant company was deregistered from BIFR on the said date. 71. It is the case of the original defendants that the original civil suit for the recovery of money having been filed against the defendant company during the pendency of proceedings before the BIFR, the trial court committed an error in deciding the suit despite the statutory bar as envisaged under Section 22(1) of the 1985 Act. 72. From a perusal of the facts as discussed above, it is clear that the civil suit was instituted by the original plaintiff on 21.11.1996, that is, indeed, during the pendency of the proceedings in respect of the defendant company before the BIFR. Thus, the first condition precedent for the applicability of the restriction under Section 22(1) of the 1985 Act being satisfied, the only aspect that is now required to be determined is whether the suit instituted by the original plaintiff was of a nature as contemplated under Section 22(1). 350 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 73. From a bare reading of the provision, it appears that any ‘suit for recovery of money’ against a sick industrial company shall not lie or be proceeded with during the pendency of the proceedings in respect of such a company before the BIFR or the AAIFR, except with the permission of the BIFR or the AAIFR, as the case may be. However, it has been contended by the original plaintiff that it is not a suit for recovery of money simpliciter is not barred under the provision, and only such suits for recovery of money which are instituted towards recovery of liabilities admitted by the sick company before the BIFR that fall within the protective ambit of Section 22(1). 74. In other words, the contention of the original plaintiff is that if a suit for recovery of money is brought against a sick company during the pendency of proceedings before the BIFR or the AAIFR with respect to the recovery of an acknowledged debt, then such a suit will be hit by Section 22(1) and cannot lie or be proceeded with except with the permission of the BIFR or the AAIFR, as the case may be.