Supreme Court Reports b. The submission that a person did not have the power to ‘establish’ a university before the enactment of the UGC Act is rejected. The words establishment and incorporation cannot be interchangeably used. They connote different meanings. The former refers to founding an institution, which in the case of teaching colleges that were converted to universities would refer to any person or community who undertook the efforts the establish the teaching college. c. The minority character of the institution is not ipso facto surrendered upon the incorporation of the University 97. The Solicitor General argued that Azeez Basha (supra) — correctly understood — holds that the Muslim minority surrendered its rights as a denominational institution before the Constitution was adopted by approaching the imperial legislature to recognise the degrees. He argued that the decision tacitly recognised the fact that two broad groups existed during the freedom struggle. The first of these groups was determined to conduct their affairs without assistance from or reference to the imperial legislature. It set up institutions which granted degrees which were not recognised by the imperial government. They did not seek recognition of the degrees granted by their institutions at that time. Instead, such institutions (and the degrees granted by them) were recognised post-independence. Examples of such universities include Shantiniketan; the predecessor of IIT Roorkee. In contrast, the second group chose to collaborate with the imperial government and sought recognition of the degrees awarded by its universities. Having approached the imperial government for such recognition, the second group surrendered their denominational status (comparable to minority status under Article 30). It was submitted that the founders of AMU formed a part of the second group. While MAO College may have been of a denominational character, it has been urged that the incorporation of the institute as AMU resulted in the surrender of rights. Since we are only dealing with the principles of law, we will address this argument without referring to the factual aspects submitted by the learned Solicitor General. In short, the argument is that the minority character of an educational institution is surrendered upon the incorporation of the institution. 98. The minority character of institutions cannot be rejected if they were conferred a legal character by a statute enacted prior to 1950. The [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1733 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. enactment was necessary to award degrees recognized by the British government, allowing graduates to gain degree recognition and secure employment. The enactment of the statute is a ministerial and a legislative act, which confers juristic personality as well as legal rights in terms of the law in force. The statute grants the power to the educational institution to confer the degrees. The incorporation by way of statute is a legal requirement. That being the case, we will not accept the argument that compliance with legal requirement would tantamount to the ‘establishment’ of an institution by the Legislature, and thereby the linguistic and religious minority forgo the guarantees and protection under clause (1) of Article 30 of the Constitution.