However, the definition provides an authoritative guide to understanding the meaning and remit of parliamentary privileges. The definition evidently divides privileges into two constituent elements. The first is the sum of rights enjoyed by the House of Parliament and the second is the rights enjoyed by members of the House individually. Rights and immunities such as the power to regulate its own procedure, the power to punish for contempt of the House or to expel a member for the remainder of the session of the House, belong to the first element of privileges held by the House as a collective body for its proper functioning, protection of members, and vindication of its own authority and dignity. The second element of rights exercised individually by members of the House includes freedom of speech and freedom from arrest, among others. 49 Erskine May’s Treatise on the Law, Privileges, Proceedings and Usage of Parliament, LexisNexis, 25th ed. (2019) 239. [2024] 3 S.C.R. 517 Sita Soren v. Union of India 77. The privilege exercised by members individually is in turn qualified by its necessity, in that the privilege must be such that “without which they could not discharge their functions.” We shall elucidate this limb later in the course of this . These privileges enjoyed by members of the House individually are a means to ensure and facilitate the effective discharge of the collective functions of the House.50 It must therefore be noted that whereas the privileges enjoyed by members of the House exceed those possessed by other bodies or individuals, they are not absolute or unqualified. The privilege of an individual member only extends insofar as it aids the House to function and without which the House may not be able to carry out its functions collectively. 78. Subhash C Kashyap has explained parliamentary privileges as they may be understood in the Indian context.51 In his book on parliamentary procedure, the author has opined as follows: “[…] In Parliamentary parlance the term ‘privilege means certain rights and immunities enjoyed by each House of Parliament and its Committees collectively, and by the members of each House individually without which they cannot discharge their functions efficiently and effectively. The object of parliamentary privilege is to safeguard the freedom, the authority and the dignity of the institution of Parliament and its members. They are granted by the Constitution to enable them to discharge their functions without any let or hindrance. Parliamentary Privileges do not exempt members from the obligations to the society which apply to other citizens. Privileges of Parliament do not place a member of Parliament on a footing different from that of an ordinary citizen in the matter of the applications of the laws of the land unless there are good and sufficient reasons in the interest of Parliament itself to do so. The fundamental principle is that all citizens including members of Parliament should be treated equally before the law. The privileges 50 Erskine May’s Treatise on the Law, Privileges, Proceedings and Usage of Parliament, LexisNexis, 25th ed.