The majority had reached a similar conclusion, but by another reasoning. They did not discuss Article 31-C or Article 39(b) and (c). Although, the legislation in question was passed by the State legislature, declaring in its objects and reasons that the Act was enacted with the purpose of achieving the aim of Article 39 (b) and (c) of the Constitution of India. When the Karnataka Act was challenged in the High Court, the State defended the legislation relying upon Article 39 (b) and (c) in the light of Article 31-C of the Constitution. The Division Bench of the High Court rejected the arguments of the State as it saw no public purpose in the acquisition. Again, when the case came to this Court in Appeal, the entire argument of the appellant was built on Article 39(b) and (c) and the protection the law had under Article 31-C. The minority of Three Judges thus were not answering a question which was never there, but to the contrary, they chose to answer the fundamental question which was before them. 29. My respectful submission here is that the of Three Judges in Ranganatha Reddy does not fall under clause (5) of Article 14555 as a dissenting or opinion, though yes it is also true that what will be called as a and opinion of the Court, will be what was given by the majority of four Judges since “no and no such opinion shall be delivered by the Supreme Court save with the concurrence of a majority of the Judges present at the hearing of the case..” [Article 145(5)] When later the opinion of the Three Judges is followed by the Five Judges in Sanjeev Coke it was done as the Five Judge Constitution Bench was persuaded by the logic and reasoning of the Three Judges. In doing this no judicial discipline was broken as the majority of Four 55 Article 145: Rules of Court, etc. : (1) … (2) … (3) … (4) … (5) No and no such opinion shall be delivered by the Supreme Court save with the concurrence of a majority of the Judges present at the hearing of the case, but nothing in this clause shall be deemed to prevent a Judge who does not concur from delivering a dissenting or opinion. 298 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Judges did not give a contrary opinion on the subjects. Admittedly, there was no before Sanjeev Coke which had held a view contrary to what was held in Ranganatha Reddy. Coming back to Ranganatha Reddy while answering this question, the minority of Three Judges did not go against any of the observations or findings of the majority judges. All they did was give a clear opinion on a question of law, which they were called upon to do. That was the crucial question before the Supreme Court which the Three Judges had answered. 30. The question now is that when in Sanjeev Coke, the Five Judge Constitution Bench unanimously followed the minority judgement in Ranganatha Reddy did it violate judicial discipline of not following the majority but the minority decision.