36. Moving on to decisions of not too distant an origin, we notice that this Court in Rafique Bibi v. Sayed Waliuddin16 whilst relying on Vasudev Dhanjibhai Modi (supra), has made valuable observations as to the circumstances where an passed could be regarded as a nullity. The relevant observations made in Rafique Bibi (supra) read thus: “6. What is ‘void’ has to be clearly understood. A decree can be said to be without jurisdiction, and hence a nullity, if the court passing the decree has usurped a jurisdiction which it did not have; a mere wrong exercise of jurisdiction does not result in a nullity. The lack of jurisdiction in the court passing the decree must be patent on its face in to enable the executing court to take cognizance of such a nullity based on want of jurisdiction, else the normal rule that an executing court cannot go behind the decree must prevail. 7. Two things must be clearly borne in mind. Firstly, ‘the court will invalidate an only if the right remedy is sought by the right person in the right proceedings and circumstances. The may be ‘a nullity’ and ‘void’ but these terms have no absolute sense: their meaning is relative, depending upon the court’s willingness to grant relief in any particular situation. If this principle of illegal relativity is borne in mind, the law can be made to operate justly and reasonably in cases where the doctrine of ultra vires, rigidly applied, would produce unacceptable results.” (Administrative Law, Wade and Forsyth, 8th Edn., 2000, p. 308.) … 16 (2004) 1 SCC 287 542 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 8. A distinction exists between a decree passed by a court having no jurisdiction and consequently being a nullity and not executable and a decree of the court which is merely illegal or not passed in accordance with the procedure laid down by law. A decree suffering from illegality or irregularity of procedure, cannot be termed inexecutable by the executing court; the remedy of a person aggrieved by such a decree is to have it set aside in a duly constituted legal proceedings or by a superior court failing which he must obey the command of the decree. A decree passed by a court of competent jurisdiction cannot be denuded of its efficacy by any collateral attack or in incidental proceedings.” (underlining ours, for emphasis) 37. Also, a reading of Rafique Bibi (supra) makes it clear that the lack of jurisdiction must be patent on the face of the decree to enable an executing court to conclude that the decree was a nullity. Hence, it is clear that all irregular or wrong decrees would not necessarily be void. An erroneous or illegal decision, which was not void, could not be objected in execution or incidental proceedings. This dictum was also affirmed by a Bench of 3 (three) Hon’ble Judges of this Court in Balvant N. Viswamitra v. Yadav Sadashiv Mule17. 38. What follows from a conspectus of all the aforesaid decisions is that jurisdiction is the entitlement of the civil court to embark upon an enquiry as to whether the cause has been brought before it by the plaintiff in a manner prescribed by law and also whether a good case for grant of relief claimed been set up by him.