In the facts and circumstances of the case, it can also be held that the appellant was concerned with the specified goods in connection with ‘fraudulent evasion or attempt at evasion’ of duty chargeable on the specified goods. It is well known, that it is very difficult for the prosecution, to prove every link, in respect of the commission of the offence under the Act by direct evidence. The whole process of smuggling, for evading payment of custom duty [2024] 10 S.C.R. 253 Just Rights for Children Alliance & Anr. v. S. Harish & Ors. consists of different links. The links aid and abate each other, sometimes through a remote control. That is why, Parliament has introduced Section 138-A in the Act. [...] The provision relates only to burden and nature of proof at the trial, as such it was applicable in the present case. In view of the aforesaid section, a presumption has to be drawn, in respect of existence of the alleged mental state. An option has been given to the accused to prove by way of defence the fact, that he did not have any such mental state with respect to the act charged which is an offence. It can be said that the provision aforesaid is an exception to the general criminal jurisprudence that onus never shifts on the accused and he has only to raise a doubt in the mind of the court, in respect of the correctness of the prosecution version. It is different from Sections 106 and 114 of the Evidence Act. In view of Section 138-A, once a presumption is raised about a culpable mental state on the part of the accused, that he had stored the silver ingots, to export them outside the country evading payment of custom duties, the accused has to prove as a defence that no such mental state with respect to the act charged, did exist. [...]” (Emphasis supplied) 160. In another decision of this Court in Devchand Kalyan Tandel v. State of Gujarat reported in (1996) 6 SCC 255, it was reiterated that the statutory presumption engrafted in Section 138A of the Customs Act was out of necessity in view of the growing number of cases pertaining to evasion of duty or prohibitions or other alike economic offences and the inherent difficulty of the prosecution in establishing ingredients of such offences. It held that, once the recovery of prohibited goods from the accused person has been duly established by the prosecution, the statutory presumption would arise. It further held, that the question in such cases would be whether in the proved facts and circumstances, could the recourse of the statutory presumption be taken. The relevant observations read as under: - “10. [...] It is no doubt true that in a charge for violation of the provisions of Section 135(1)(a) it is required for the prosecution to establish that the accused have fraudulently evaded or attempted to evade any duty chargeable on 254 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the goods or have violated the prohibition imposed under the Act in respect of the goods.