87. The respondent has contended that the expression “other cause of a like nature” used in Section 14 of the Limitation Act should be given a wide interpretation as Section 14 is meant to advance the cause of the justice and not thwart it by procedural impediments. In view of liberal interpretation of Section 14, the respondent submitted that the case at hand is one fit for the grant of relief under Section 14 of the Limitation Act. 88. This Court in M.P. Housing Board v. Mohanlal & Co. reported in (2016) 14 SCC 199 observed thus on the liberal interpretation of Section 14 of the Limitation Act: “16. From the aforesaid passage, it is clear as noonday that there has to be a liberal interpretation to advance the cause of justice. However, it has also been laid down that it would be applicable in cases of mistaken remedy or selection of a wrong forum. As per the conditions enumerated, the earlier proceeding and the latter proceeding must relate to the same matter in issue. It is worthy to mention here that the words “matter in 184 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports issue” are used under Section 11 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908. As has been held in Ramadhar Shrivas v. Bhagwandas [(2005) 13 SCC 1], the said expression connotes the matter which is directly and substantially in issue. We have only referred to the said authority to highlight that despite liberal interpretation placed under Section 14 of the Act, the matter in issue in the earlier proceeding and the latter proceeding has to be conferred requisite importance. That apart, the prosecution of the prior proceeding should also show due diligence and good faith. (Emphasis supplied) 89. Undoubtedly, this Court over a period of time has taken a consistent view that the expression “other cause of a like nature” appearing in Section 14 should be given a wide interpretation. However, while considering the applicability of Section 14 of the Limitation Act, one must not lose sight of the fact that the applicability of the provision is contingent upon not just the reason for the failure of the earlier proceedings, but is also dependent on several other factors as explained in the preceding paragraphs. It is only when all the ingredients required for the applicability of Section 14 are fulfilled that the benefit would become available. In this context the appellant has submitted that as the proceedings undertaken by the respondent before the IBC and the proceedings for the appointment of arbitrator before the High Court are not for the “same relief”, hence the benefit of Section 14 of the Limitation Act will not be available to the respondent. To address this contention of the appellant, it is important to understand the purpose of IBC proceedings vis-à-vis proceedings under Section 11(6) of the Act, 1996. a. Application under Section 11(6) of the Act, 1996 is not for the same relief as an application under Section 9 of the IBC 90.