Dermott International vs Burn Standard (2006 (11) SCC 181) Clause 1. Definitions. Quote “Products: means goods but not spare or replacement parts supplied by Micromax (but not [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1161 M/s Arif Azim Co. Ltd. v. M/s Micromax Informatics Fze necessarily manufactured, assembled or, in the case of software, owned by Micromax Inc. or any of its subsidiary companies or affiliates) to the Distributor. ..Unquote (emphasis supplied) Quote “Supplementary agreements: means further agreement(s) as may be executed between the parties including such other commercial terms and conditions which are not incorporated in this agreement”. Cl. 5.4 Payment ……….. Cl. 5.4.3 “Micromax shall be entitled to deduct from any monies due to the Distributor any sums owed by Distributor to Micromax……” Unquote Cl. 22 Interpretation ……… “22.4. references to Micromax shall be deemed to include reference to affiliates of Micromax where the context so requires”. 24. Assignment - Micromax may assign or otherwise transfer this Agreement or any of its rights and obligations hereunder whether in whole or in part” …….. Unquote. 12.5 Acting upon the supplementary terms, the petitioner made a payment of $109500 by SWIFT to Micromax Inc. in Bombay. (page 64 Annexure P7). In juxtaposition, curated details of the two emails originating from Sh. Vikash Jain (deponent in the counter) who is the Executive Director of Micromax FZE (at page 62 Annex P-4) and an authorised representative of Micromax Inc. is given below: Date: 11 December, 2012 Dear Ali Bhai, Please find attached your debit balance to Micromax, India. Also sending a credit balance statement from FZE, Would appreciate if you can make the mentioned payment to India and we remit credit balance to you back from FZE. 1162 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Thanks Vikas” (Page 52 of the Paper book) “Date 11 December, 2012 Dear Ali Bhai, This is about $190K that we owe back to your firm from FZE. Would appreciate if we can resolve the accounts at the fastest. Thanks Vikas” (Page 54 of the Paper book) Final submission- Mere expression of venue of arbitration will not entail that the parties intended it to be the seat. The intention of the parties- keeping intact Party autonomy - has to be determined from other clauses of the Agreement and the conduct of the parties.” ii. Submissions on behalf of the Respondent. 19. Mr. Mudit Sharma the learned counsel appearing for the petitioner in his written submissions has stated thus: - “WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS “M/S MICROMAX FZE (UAE)” I. PETITION NOT MAINTAINABLE AND THIS HON’BLE COURT LACKS JURISDICTION: 1. It is humbly submitted that this Hon’ble Court does not have the jurisdiction to either entertain the Petition under Section 11(6) of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 (“the Act”) and / or appoint an Arbitrator in terms of the Arbitration Agreement between the Petitioner and the Respondent i.e. M/s. Micromax Informatics FZE(UAE) for neither the arbitration seat is India nor the parties ever envisaged the redressal of disputes through arbitration in terms of Indian laws and in India as per the Distributor Agreement dated 09.11.2010 between the Parties (Ann.