2 of Police Line Nehru Nagar. Come with me, I will hand over it to you.” 54. The disclosure statement made by the Appellant led to the discovery and subsequent seizure of the knife, namely, the weapon of offence. Subsequently, a seizure memo (Ex.P.20) was prepared, which stated as follows: “One knife made of iron with wooden handle the total length of which is about 14 ½ inches, the length of handle is about 4 ¾ inches and length of blade is about 10 inches 240 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports and width of blade is about 1 ¼ inches, the tip of knife is pointed, blood is present in the front (agla) part of the blade which has dried up. On producing by accused Dharmendra @ Dhamma, the same was taken in possession of Police and sealed pack on the spot itself as evidence.” 55. The question that requires determination is whether the above-stated disclosure statement is admissible in evidence? The issue regarding the admissibility of a disclosure statement within the meaning of Section 27 of the IEA was comprehensively addressed by this Court in Pulukuri Kottaya v. Emperor,6 delineating the following briefly summed up criteria: (i) There should be a discovery of the fact. (ii) The discovery of fact should be in consequence of information received from a person accused of an offence. (iii) The person giving the information should be in the custody of a Police Officer. (iv) Only that portion of information which relates distinctly or strictly to the fact discovered can be proved. 56. The testimony of the Investigating Officer (P.W.14) unfolds that the Appellant voluntarily made the disclosure statement while he was in police custody, pursuant to which the weapon of offence (knife) was recovered. Whether the said statement was made voluntarily or was secured through coercion is essentially a question of fact. In this regard, the testimony of Lallu Vishwakarma (P.W.11) assumes significance as the disclosure statement was duly witnessed by him. In our considered opinion, the disclosure statement of the Appellant to the extent it led to the recovery of a knife fulfils the basic tenets of Section 27 of IEA and has been correctly admitted in evidence. 57. We may hasten to add at this stage that the prosecution version was not only accepted by the Trial Court but the High Court has also affirmed it in appeal. In our quest to find out whether the Appellant is guilty beyond a reasonable doubt, we have expanded the wings of our limited jurisdiction and assumed the role akin to that of the 1st Appellate Court. We are conscious of the fact that the jurisdictional 6 1946 SCC OnLine PC 47 [2024] 7 S.C.R. 241 Dharmendra Kumar @ Dhamma v. State of Madhya Pradesh magnification ought to be an exception and be invoked with great circumspection, in a case of extreme hardship, after taking into consideration the socio-economic conditions of the victim(s) of a crime, the accused, as well as the vulnerable witnesses.