of any person accused of having committed a non-bailable offence to seek anticipatory bail can lead one to assume that neither a blanket restriction can be read into the text of Section 438 CrPC by this Court, nor can inflexible guidelines in the exercise of discretion be insisted as that would amount to judicial legislation. vii. A statutory restriction on the right to apply for pre-arrest bail is also found under Sections 18 and 18A(2) respectively of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989 (for short, “the Act, 1989”). The said provisions provide that Section 438 of the CrPC shall not apply to cases under the Act, 1989. That despite the statutory bar under Sections 18 and 18A(2) respectively of the Act, 1989 a three- Judge Bench of this Court in Prathvi Raj Chauhan v. Union of India reported in (2020) 4 SCC 727 held that if a complaint does not make out a prima facie case for applicability of the Act, 1989 the bar under Sections 18 and 18A(2) respectively of the said Act shall not apply. The aforesaid indicates the judicial approach of adopting an interpretation in favour of personal liberty. 8. In such circumstances referred to above, Mr. Dave prayed that there being no merit in the appeal, the same may be dismissed. C. VIEWS OF DIFFERENT HIGH COURTS ON THE ISSUE IN QUESTION 9. In Sunil Kallani (supra), a learned Single Judge of the High Court of Rajasthan took the view that an application for anticipatory bail would not be maintainable at the instance of a person who is already arrested and is in police custody or judicial custody in relation to a different case. The line of reasoning adopted by the High Court in taking such a view was that a person who is already in custody cannot have a reason to believe that he would be arrested as he already stood arrested, albeit in a different case. The High Court observed that arrest means to actually touch or confine the body of the person to the custody of a police officer and an essential part of arrest is placing the corpus, that is the body of the person, in custody of the police authorities. In light of this essential requirement to constitute an arrest, a person who is already in custody cannot have a reason to believe that he may be arrested as he stood already 268 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports arrested. The High Court tried to fortify its view by relying on some of the observations made by this Court in Narinderjit Singh Sahni (supra). A few relevant observations made by the High Court are extracted hereinbelow: “17. The Scheme of Code of Criminal Procedure does not define the word arrest. In Chapter V of Code of Criminal Procedure, Section 41 lays down when police may arrest without warrant. Section 41B lays down procedure of arrest and duties of officer. Section 46 mentions how arrest is to be made.