.…the reason why a breach of clear undertaking given to the court amounts to contempt of court is that the contemner by making a false representation to the court obtains a benefit for himself and if he fails to honour the undertaking, he plays a serious fraud on the court itself and thereby obstructs the course of justice and brings into disrepute the judicial institution. The same cannot, however, be said of a consent or a compromise decree where the fraud, if any, is practised by the person concerned not on the court but on one of the parties. Thus, the offence committed by the 23 [1979] 3 SCR 685 : (1980) 3 SCC 47 438 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports person concerned is qua the party not qua the court, and, therefore, the very foundation for proceeding for contempt of court is completely absent in such cases…... (emphasis added) O. BREACH OF AN UNDERTAKING 40. Coming next to the word “undertaking”, the same has not been defined in the Act but it has different connotations. In the backdrop of contempt proceedings, the word “undertaking” has been defined in Black’s Law Dictionary, Fifth Edition as : “A promise, engagement, or stipulation. An engagement by one of the parties to a contract to the other, as distinguished from the nutual engagement of the parties to each other. It does not necessarily imply a consideration. In a somewhat special sense, a promise given in the course of legal proceedings by a party or his counsel, generally as a condition to obtaining some concession from the court or the opposite party. A promise or security in any form.” 41. The Osborn’s Concise Law Dictionary, 10th Edition defines “undertaking” in the following words : “A person, especially a promise in the course of legal proceedings by a party or his counsel, which may be enforced by attachment or otherwise in the same manner as an injunction.” 42. In M v. Home Office,24 the Court issued a caution on how an undertaking would be treated and observed that : “If a party, or solicitors or counsel on his behalf, so act as to convey to the court the firm conviction that an undertaking is being given, that party will be bound and it will be no answer that he did not think that he was giving it or that he was misunderstood.” P. QUALIFIED APOLOGY VIS-À-VIS UNCONDITIONAL APOLOGY 24 (1992) Q.B. 270 [2024] 8 S.C.R. 439 In Re: Patanjali Ayurved Ltd. Through Its Mangg. Dir., Acharya Balkrishna & Baba Ramdev in The Matter of: Indian Medical Asso. and another v. Union of India and others 43. We may next touch upon the aspect of a qualified apology vis-à-vis an unconditional apology. It must be understood that any apology tendered by a party in contempt proceedings must be unconditional and unqualified. Such an apology must also demonstrate that it has been made with a bona fide intention and not just to wriggle out of a tight situation.