Digital Supreme Court Reports decision of Hukumdev Narain Yadav (supra) was not brought to the notice of this Court when Mangu Ram (supra) was decided (we have discussed Mangu Ram in the preceding paragraphs). Much reliance has been placed by the learned counsel for the appellant Shri Agarwal on this observation of the Court. Hukumdev Narain Yadav as we have already discussed above relates to election laws which falls in an entirely different category, as far as period of limitation is concerned. A bare comment of this Court that a case was not considered would not mean that the entire findings of the court arrived in Mangu Ram (supra) are wrong. We must appreciate Gopal Sardar for what it decides and the facts and the context on which this decision is based. What were the facts of Gopal Sardar and what were the findings of this Court? In Gopal Sardar, this Court was again dealing with the period of limitation relating to West Bengal Land Reforms Act, 1955 and the application of Section 5 of the Limitation Act. Section 8 of the West Bengal Land Reforms Act, 1955 gave certain right to a “raiyat” for transfer of land of co-sharer, exercising his right of pre-emption but this right had to be exercised “within a period of 4 months of the date of cause of action”. The same Act in its Section 14-‘O’ and Section 19 while discussing the period of appeal provides that Section 5 of the Limitation Act would apply. This Court thus came to a finding that though Section 5 of the Limitation Act would apply in the case of appeal but it will not apply in a case when the proceedings itself had to be initiated in form of suit under Section 8 of the Act which had to be done within a period of 4 months. Section 8 of the West Bengal Land Reforms Act, 1955 reads as under: “8. Right of purchase by co-sharer or contiguous tenant.—(1) If a portion or share of a plot of land of a raiyat is transferred to any person other than a co-sharer of a raiyat in the plot of land, the bargadar in the plot of land may, within three months of the date of such transfer, or any co-sharer of a raiyat in the plot of land may, within three months of the service of the notice given under sub-section (5) of Section 5, or any raiyat possessing land adjoining such plot of land, may, within four months of the date of such transfer, apply to the Munsif having territorial jurisdiction for transfer of the said portion or share of the [2024] 2 S.C.R. 649 Mohd Abaad Ali & Anr. v. Directorate of Revenue Prosecution Intelligence plot of land to him, subject to the limit mentioned in Section 14-M on deposit of the consideration money together with a further sum of ten per cent of that amount. This is what this Court said on these two provisions: “19.