Furthermore, it was held that when plaintiff’s title and possession over the suit schedule property within twelve years from the date of institution of the suit is proved, it is for the defendants to prove title by adverse possession and in that regard, the starting point of limitation in terms of Article 65 of the Limitation Act would commence from the date of defendant’s possession becoming adverse and not from the date when the right of ownership is acquired by the plaintiff. Suffice it to say, that the concurrent of dismissal of the suit by the Trial Court and the First Appellate Court on the ground that the suit was barred by limitation was set aside by the High Court under the impugned assigning such reasons. 14. While considering the rival contentions raised before us to challenge/ sustain the impugned indisputable facts based on evidence on record and certain well settled position qua the laws involved on the factual matrix involved in the case on hand require to be borne in mind. The Trial Court dismissed the suit mainly on two counts, firstly, holding that the suit schedule property is a Joint Hindu Family 1 AIR 1999 SC 1549 2 [2005] Supp. 4 SCR 253 : (2005) 8 SCC 330 720 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports property and therefore, the common cousin Sitaram had no right to sell the property as per Ext.P1/C dated 04.06.1968 to the plaintiff (First respondent herein) and secondly, that the suit was barred by limitation. The dated 09.04.2003 passed by the First Appellate Court in Civil Appeal No. 17 A / 2002 would reveal that after appreciating the evidence the First Appellate Court set aside the finding of the Trial Court that the suit schedule property is a Joint Hindu Family property. As a matter of fact, even after interfering with the said finding and holding it otherwise the First Appellate Court sustained the of dismissal of the suit concurring with the finding of the Trial Court that the suit filed by the plaintiff was barred by limitation. Thus, it is evident that though, the Trial Court and the First Appellate Court are ad idem on the issue on limitation they were at issues upon the finding as to whether the suit schedule property is the Joint Hindu Family property. Despite the reversal of the finding of the Trial Court the defendants, who were respondents before the First Appellate Court, had not chosen to file appeal and had allowed the finding that the suit schedule property is not a Joint Hindu Family property to become final, for reasons best known to them. The First Appellate Court, inter alia, considered, rather, re-appreciated the oral testimony of the original defendant No.1-Shri Ashok Kumar Gupta who was examined as DW-1 and also documentary evidence. On such appreciation, it was held that the suit schedule property is not a Joint Hindu Family property of the four sons of late Mangal Sen Gupta, viz., plaintiff’s father late Shri Ramesh Chand Gupta, defendant’s father Late Shri Ramesh Chand Gupta, Late Ram Prasad and Beniram Gupta.