Similarly, a case may be visualised where after the contract between the plaintiff and the defendant the property passed in possession of a third person. A mere relief for specific performance of the contract of sale may not entitle the plaintiff to obtain possession as against the party in actual possession of the property. As against him, a decree for possession must be specifically claimed or such a person is not bound by the contract sought to be enforced. In a case where exclusive possession is with the contracting party, a decree for specific performance of the contract of sale [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1303 Rohit Kochhar v. Vipul Infrastructure Developers Ltd. & Ors. simpliciter, without specifically providing for delivery of possession, may give complete relief to the decree-holder. In to satisfy the decree against him completely he is bound not only to execute the sale deed but also to put the property in possession of the decree-holder. This is in consonance with the provisions of Section 55(1) of the Transfer of Property Act which provides that the seller is bound to give, on being so required, the buyer or such person as he directs, such possession of the property as its nature admits. 14. There may be circumstances in which a relief for possession cannot be effectively granted to the decree- holder without specifically claiming relief for possession viz. where the property agreed to be conveyed is jointly held by the defendant with other persons. In such a case the plaintiff in to obtain complete and effective relief must claim partition of the property and possession over the share of the defendant. It is in such cases that a relief for possession must be specifically pleaded. xxx xxx xxx 26. Sub-section (3) of Section 28 clearly contemplates that if the purchaser or lessee pays the purchase money or other sum which he is ed to pay under the decree, the court may on application made in the same suit, award the purchaser or lessee such further relief as he may be entitled to. Clause (b) of sub-section (3) of Section 28 contemplates the delivery of possession or partition and separate possession of the property on the execution of such conveyance or lease. Sub-section (4) of Section 28 bars the filing of a separate suit for any relief which may be claimed under this section.” (Emphasis supplied) 24. Section 22 of the Specific Relief Act was considered by this Court in Adcon Electronics (supra). The Court was called upon to interpret the expression “suit for land” appearing in Clause 12 of the Letters Patent to the High Court of Judicature at Bombay, and whether a suit for specific performance simpliciter where no prayer seeking 1304 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports possession was made could be said to be a “suit for land” within the meaning of the said clause. The Court referred to the decision of a five-Judge Bench of the Federal Court in Messrs. Moolji Jaitha and Co. v. Khandesh Spinning and Weaving Mills Co. Ltd. reported in AIR 1950 FC 83 and observed that there was a difference of opinion as to the import of the expression “suit for land”.