[2024] 1 S.C.R. 851 Bilkis Yakub Rasool v. Union of India & Others 14. In the instant case, once the crime was committed in the State of Gujarat, after the trial been concluded and of conviction came to be passed, all further proceedings have to be considered including remission or pre-mature release, as the case may be, in terms of the policy which is applicable in the State of Gujarat where the crime was committed and not the State where the trial stands transferred and concluded for exceptional reasons under the s of this Court. 15. Consequently, the petition is allowed. The impugned dated 17th July, 2019 is set aside. 16. The respondents are directed to consider the application of the petitioner for pre-mature release in terms of its policy dated 9th July, 1992 which is applicable on the date of conviction and may be decided within a period of two months. If any adverse is passed, the petitioner is at liberty to seek remedy available to him under the law.” 36.3. The following aspects are noted by this Court in the dated 13.05.2022: (i) that the crime was committed in the State of Gujarat but this Court in Transfer Petition (Crl.) No.192 of 2004 had considered it appropriate to transfer Sessions Case No.161 of 2004 pending before the learned Additional Sessions Judge, Dahod, Ahmedabad to the competent court in Mumbai for trial and disposal by dated 06.08.2004. (ii) that the trial court, Mumbai in Sessions Case No.634 of 2004, on completion of the trial held the said respondent as well as the other accused guilty and sentenced them to undergo rigorous imprisonment for life by and dated 21.01.2008. (iii) that one of the co-accused Ramesh Rupabhai had approached the Bombay High Court by filing Writ Petition (Crl.) No.305 of 2013 seeking premature release but his application was dismissed by 05.08.2013 on the premise that the crime was committed in the state of Gujarat and his trial was transferred to the competent 852 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports court in Maharashtra and once the trial had concluded and sentence has been passed, the appropriate Government would be the State of Gujarat and accordingly, the application filed by the said co-accused for premature release was to be examined as per the policy applicable in the State of Gujarat. (iv) that the on which learned counsel for the State of Gujarat had placed reliance (V.Sriharan) was not of any assistance for the reason that under Section 432 (7) of the CrPC, the appropriate Government can be either Central or State Government but there cannot be a concurrent jurisdiction of two State Governments under the said provision. (v) that once the crime was committed in the State of Gujarat, after the trial has been concluded and the of conviction came to be passed, all further proceedings had to be considered including remission or pre-mature release, as the case may be, in terms of the policy which is applicable in the State of Gujarat where the crime was committed and not the State where the trial stood transferred and concluded for exceptional reasons under the of this Court.