47.2 On a reading of the above, it is clear that the stand of the MoEF&CC before the Parliament has been as follows: (i) that processed GM foods is dealt with under Section 22 of the FSSA, 2006, which had not yet been operationalised. This was as on 15.03.2021, but thereafter on 02.11.2021, the Central Government has appointed the said date as the date on which clause (2) of Explanation of Section 2 of the FSSA, 2006 shall come into force. The said clause deals with GM or engineered organisms obtained through modern biotechnology. (ii) More critically, it is also admitted by the MoEF&CC that the FSSAI has not undertaken any study on impact of GM foods on the health of individuals in the country. (iii) Subsequently, on 22.03.2021, it has been stated that Bt cotton is the only GM crop that has been approved for commercial cultivation in India. (iv) Thereafter, on 08.12.2022 a specific question, namely, whether the bar gene in parental lines and hybrid offspring of Delhi University’s transgenic mustard hybrid DMH-11 confers HT to transgenic mustard hybrid DMH-11 plants, even as it is useful as a marker gene was asked. The answer given was that the bar gene in mustard hybrid DMH-11 is expressed which encodes enzyme that confers resistance to herbicide glufosinate ammonium. (v) But it is stated in the same answer that Genetically Modified (GM) hybrid mustard DMH-11 has not been approved for herbicide tolerant (HT) trait but for a GM technology for hybrid seed production. The HT characteristic/trait present in the transgenic mustard hybrid DMH-11 seed is essential for eliminating fertile plants that are not transgenic in hybrid seed production [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2131 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. plots to maintain the purity of hybrid seeds. It was also stated that the use of herbicide will be limited at the time of seed production stage and not during the commercial cultivation of DMH-11 by the farmers. Such use of herbicide, it was stated, will be after obtaining label claim approval from the Central Insecticide Board and Registration Committee (CIB&RC). The Minister noted that the biosafety research trials including environmental safety studies had been conducted for transgenic mustard hybrid DMH-11 containing barnase, barstar and bar genes, events bn 3.6 (Barnase line) and modbs 2.99 (Barstarline). (vi) Further, he noted that the issue of environmental release of transgenic mustard hybrid DMH-11 is under adjudication in the present cases. 47.3 Having given my anxious consideration to the report of the TEC and the PSCs, I am convinced that the ability to conduct robust risk assessment hinges upon the availability of indigenous and independent studies and research. It follows that conclusions about safety assessment and ecological impact cannot be transplanted from research conducted in a foreign context. Crucially, the recommendation of Expert Committee constituted by GEAC in the year 2022 after Prof. Pental’s letter to the Hon’ble Minister of Environment, which is the basis of GEAC’s impugned approval, is entirely premised upon foreign studies and research and not on indigenous research or studies.