Supreme Court Reports to examine the true character of the enactment, the entire Act, its object and scope is required to be gone into. The question of invasion into the territory of another legislation is to be determined not by degree but by substance. The doctrine of pith and substance has to be applied not only in cases of conflict between the powers of two legislatures but also in any case where the question arises whether a legislation is covered by a particular legislative field over which the power is purported to be exercised. In other words, what is of paramount consideration is that the substance of the legislation should be examined to arrive at a correct analysis or in examining the validity of law, where two legislations are in conflict or alleged to be repugnant.” 8.2 Doctrine of Harmonious Construction In the authoritative text ‘Principles of Statutory Interpretation’, 14th Ed. by Justice G.P. Singh, the Rule of Harmonious Construction has been captured in the following terms : “As stated by VENKATARAMA AIYAR, J., “the Rule of Construction is well settled that when there are in an enactment two provisions which cannot be reconciled with each other, they should be so interpreted that, if possible, effect should be given to both. This is what is known as the rule of harmonious construction.” That, effect should be given to both, is the very essence of the rule. Thus a construction that reduces one of the provisions to a “useless lumber” or “dead letter” is not harmonious construction. To harmonize is not to destroy.” The s referred to in the above paragraph are Venkataramana Devaru v. State of Mysore;14 Calcutta Gas Co. (Proprietary) Ltd. v. State of West Bengal;15 J.K. Cotton Spinning & Weaving v. State of U.P..16 14 [1958] 1 SCR 895 : AIR 1958 SC 255 15 [1962] Supp. 3 SCR 1 : AIR 1962 SC 1044 16 [1961] 3 SCR 185 : AIR 1961 SC 1170 [2024] 12 S.C.R. 881 Sanjeevkumar Harakchand Kankariya v. Union of India & Ors. We may also refer to British Airways PLC v. Union of India17 wherein this Court said as follows : “8. While interpreting a statute the court should try to sustain its validity and give such meaning to the provisions which advance the object sought to be achieved by the enactment. The court cannot approach the enactment with a view to pick holes or to search for defects of drafting which make its working impossible. It is a cardinal principle of construction of a statute that effort should be made in construing the different provisions so that each provision will have its play and in the event of any conflict a harmonious construction should be given. The well-known principle of harmonious construction is that effect shall be given to all the provisions and for that any provision of the statute should be construed with reference to the other provisions so as to make it workable. A particular provision cannot be picked up and interpreted to defeat another provision made in that behalf under the statute.