D. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE STATE 11. Mr. P.V. Dinesh, the learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the State (Respondent No. 1 herein) made the following submissions: a. The complainant is an MLA from Kunnathunad constituency which is reserved for members of the Scheduled Caste and the telecast of the video was with a clear knowledge that the complainant belongs to a Scheduled Caste community. b. To constitute an offence under Section 3(1)(r) of the Act, 1989, it is not necessary to mention the caste of the person. The video was uploaded with the intention to cause insult and humiliate the complainant and thereby promote feelings of hatred and ill will. [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1105 Shajan Skaria v. The State of Kerala & Anr. c. The appellant has filed a petition before the Kerala High Court to quash the FIR and the same is currently pending. E. RELEVANT STATUTORY PROVISIONS 12. Before adverting to the rival submissions canvassed on either side, it is necessary for us to look into few relevant provisions of the Act, 1989, the CrPC and the KP Act: Section 3 of the Act 1989: Punishments for offences of atrocities.— (1) Whoever, not being a member of a Scheduled Caste or a Scheduled Tribe,— … …. …. (r) intentionally insults or intimidates with intent to humiliate a member of a Scheduled Caste or a Scheduled Tribe in any place within public view; … (u) by words either written or spoken or by signs or by visible representation or otherwise promotes or attempts to promote feelings of enmity, hatred or ill-will against members of the Scheduled Castes or the Scheduled Tribes; Shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than six months but which may extend to five years and with fine Section 18 of the Act 1989: Section 438 of the Code not to apply to persons committing an offence under the Act.— Nothing in Section 438 of the Code shall apply in relation to any case involving the arrest of any person on an accusation of having committed an offence under this Act. Section 438 of the CrPC: Direction for grant of bail to person apprehending arrest.— 1106 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports [(1) Where any person has reason to believe that he may be arrested on accusation of having committed a non-bailable offence, he may apply to the High Court or the Court of Session for a direction under this section that in the event of such arrest he shall be released on bail; and that Court may, after taking into consideration, inter alia, the following factors, namely:– (i) the nature and gravity of the accusation; (ii) the antecedents of the applicant including the fact as to whether he has previously undergone imprisonment on conviction by a Court in respect of any cognizable offence; (iii) the possibility of the applicant to flee from justice; and. (iv) where the accusation has been made with the object of injuring or humiliating the applicant by having him so arrested, either reject the application forthwith or issue an interim for the grant of anticipatory bail: Provided that, where the High Court or, as the case may be, the Court of Session, has not passed any interim under this sub-section or has rejected the application for grant of anticipatory bail, it shall be open to an officer in-charge of a police station to arrest, without warrant the applicant on the basis of the accusation apprehended in such application.