Explanation.—For the purposes of this section, the expression “public place” includes any public conveyance, hotel, shop, or other place intended for use by, or accessible to, the public. [2024] 3 S.C.R. 31 Mohammed Khalid and Another v. The State of Telangana 49. Power to stop and search conveyance.—Any officer authorised under Section 42, may, if he has reason to suspect that any animal or conveyance is, or is about to be, used for the transport of any narcotic drug or psychotropic substance [or controlled substance], in respect of which he suspects that any provision of this Act has been, or is being, or is about to be, contravened at any time, stop such animal or conveyance, or, in the case of an aircraft, compel it to land and— (a) rummage and search the conveyance or part thereof; (b) examine and search any goods on the animal or in the conveyance; (c) if it becomes necessary to stop the animal or the conveyance, he may use all lawful means for stopping it, and where such means fail, the animal or the conveyance may be fired upon.” 18. We now proceed to some important excerpts from the prosecution evidence:- (a) Complaint dated 8th May, 2009(Exhibit P-2) “Then I recorded the confession-cum-seizure panchnama of the accused persons A-1 and seized three bundles containing Ganja in it from their possession. On weighing the three bundles it was found about 80 kgs of Ganja in it. Out of the seized Ganja we have taken three samples and marked as S-1 and S-3 each sample packet containing 50 grams of Ganja and affixed panch chits. Also seized Maroon, colour Qualis vehicle bearing No. AP 09AL 6323 Engine No. 2L9722612, Chassis No. LF50-104863512/01 from the possession of the accused persons. Out of the seized Ganja drawn three samples containing 50 grams marked S-1 to S-3, each packed in polythene covers and attached panch chits to them. The sample is supplied to the accused Mohd Ishaq Ansari and S.A. Ashafiullah.” (b) Exhibit P-11(FSL Report) – “Received one sealed cloth parcel sealed with six seals, which are intact and tallying with the sample seal labelled as 32 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “Cr. No. 181/2009” containing a cardboard box containing three closed polythene packets each labelled as “S-1, S-2 & S-3” respectively described below through Sri K. Narsimulu, PC 7770 on 14/07/2009.” (C) PW-1 “I collected three samples weighing about 50 gms each and given one sample to the accused under proper acknowledgement.” “M.O.I is the ganja packed in seven bags.” “There are no panch chits right now on M.O.I bags.” “It is true that the bags, deposited before the court are not having, seals. I, have weighed the Ganja only and it is weighing 80 Kgs, but I have not weighed the chillies. The total weight of the Ganja bundles as mentioned in the panchnama includes the weight, of chillies. I have not mentioned about sealing of samples in my panchnama. I have not mentioned in panchnama in what containers.