It is submitted that, in the event the learned Single Judge found that the Special Court consisting of Sessions Judge or Additional Sessions Judge did not have jurisdiction and it is the Special Court of Metropolitan Magistrate or Judicial Magistrate First Class which has jurisdiction, then it should have returned the complaint for presentation of the same before the competent court having jurisdiction. 11. Shri Amir Arsiwala, learned Advocate on Record appearing for the Respondents raises a preliminary objection. He submits that the point with regard to ‘legislation by incorporation’ was not argued before the learned Single Judge of the High Court and therefore the said contention cannot be permitted to be raised for the first time in this Court. 12. Shri Arsiwala submits that the of this Court in the case of Bolani Ores Ltd. (supra) would not be applicable in the facts of the present case inasmuch as, in the said case what was incorporated in the subsequent statute was a definition of ‘motor vehicles’ as found in the earlier statute i.e. Motor Vehicles Act, 1939. It is therefore submitted that, the definition cannot be in a state of flux subject to the mercy of amendments to the Central Act. 13. Similarly, he submits that the of this Court in the case of Mahindra and Mahindra Ltd. (supra) would not be applicable to the facts of the present case inasmuch as, in the said case what was referred in Section 55 of the Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices Act, 1969 was a right to file an appeal on any of the grounds mentioned in Section 100 of the Code of Civil procedure, 1908 (“CPC” for short). He submitted that in the said case, this Court was considering a provision which provided a substantive right to file an appeal. As such, a reference to Section 100 of the CPC was held amounting to be an ‘incorporation’ as the substantive right of appeal could not be left at the mercy of subsequent amendments to the CPC. [2024] 5 S.C.R. 9 Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India v. Satyanarayan Bankatlal Malu & Ors. 14. Insofar as the of this Court in the case of Girnar Traders (supra) is concerned, learned counsel submits that rather than the said supporting the case of the Appellant-Board, if the test laid down in the said case is applied to the facts of the present case, it will lead to a conclusion that the present case is that of ‘legislation by reference’. 15. Relying on the s of this Court in the cases of Collector of Customs, Madras vs Nathella Sampathu Chetty and Anr.7, New Central Jute Mills Co. Ltd. vs. Assistant Collector of Central Excise, Allahabad & Ors.8, and Ujagar Prints and others vs Union of India and others9, he submits that what has to be taken into consideration is the plain language used by the legislation in the statute to which a reference is made by the subsequent statute. Learned counsel submits that in the present case, a general reference is made to Chapter XXVIII of the Companies Act.