Act, invoking the power under Section 482, Cr.P.C. and the power under Section 147, N.I. Act, in the absence of consent of the complainant concerned in view of the decision referred hereinbefore. In this context, this is to be noted that the fact that this Court quashed the proceedings 1486 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports under Section 138, N.I. Act, invoking the power under Article 142 of the Constitution of India can be no reason at all for High Courts to pass an quashing proceeding under Section 138, N.I. Act, on the similar lines as the power under Article 142 of the Constitution of India is available only to the Supreme Court of India. In this context it is relevant to refer to the three-Judge Bench of this Court in State of Punjab & Ors. v. Surinder Kumar & Ors. [(1992) 1 SCC 489], this Court in paragraph 6 to 8 therein held thus: - 6. A decision is available as a precedent only if it decides a question of law. The respondents are, therefore, not entitled to rely upon an of this Court which directs a temporary employee to be regularised in his service without assigning reasons. It has to be presumed that for special grounds which must have been available to the temporary employees in those cases, they were entitled to the relief granted. Merely because grounds are not mentioned in a of this Court, it cannot be understood to have been passed without an adequate legal basis therefor. On the question of the requirement to assign reasons for an , a distinction has to be kept in mind between a court whose is not subject to further appeal and other courts. One of the main reasons for disclosing and discussing the grounds in support of a is to enable a higher court to examine the same in case of a challenge. It is, of course, desirable to assign reasons for every or , but the requirement is not imperative in the case of this Court. It is, therefore, futile to suggest that if this Court has issued an which apparently seems to be similar to the impugned , the High Court can also do so. There is still another reason why the High Court cannot be equated with this Court. The Constitution has, by Article 142, empowered the Supreme Court to make such s as may be necessary “for doing complete justice in any case or matter pending before it”, which authority the High Court does not enjoy. The jurisdiction of the High Court, while dealing with a writ petition, is circumscribed by the limitations discussed and declared by the judicial decisions, and it cannot transgress the limits on the basis of whims or subjective sense of justice varying from Judge to Judge. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1487 A.S. Pharma Pvt. Ltd. v. Nayati Medical Pvt. Ltd. & Ors. 7. It is true that the High Court is entitled to exercise its judicial discretion in deciding writ petitions or civil revision applications but this discretion has to be confined in declining to entertain petitions and refusing to grant relief, asked for by petitioners, on adequate considerations; and it does not permit the High Court to grant relief on such a consideration alone.