The principle underlying the presumption of constitutionality is that the legislature represents the will of the people and that it is validly constituted through free and fair elections. It would be paradoxical to accord a presumption of constitutionality to the very laws or rules that set the conditions under which the legislature comes into being*°; Corporate funding per se is violative of the Constitution because corporate entities are not citizens and thus, are not entitled to rights under Article 19(1)(a); The funds contributed to the Electoral Bond Scheme can be used in any manner and their use is not restricted to electoral campaigns; The Electoral Bond Scheme severs the link between elections and representative democracy because those elected are inclined to fulfill the wishes of the contributors and not the voters. This could be through direct guid pro quo where an express promise is made to enact a policy in favour of the donor and indirect quid pro quo where there is an influence through access to policy makers; h. The Scheme promotes information asymmetry where the information about political donations is not disclosed to voters but the Central Government is privy to such information through the State Bank of India which is the authorized bank under the Scheme. The information asymmetry will ensure that a larger portion of the donations would be made to the ruling party at the 50 ~—-Relied on Subash Chandra v. Delhi Subordinate Services Selection Board, [20102 S9CR ]97 8 : (2009) 15 SCC 458 [2024] 2 S.C.R. 469 Association for Democratic Reforms & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. Centre. According to the data, the political party at the center has received fifty seven percent of the total contributions made through electoral bonds; The Electoral Bond Scheme skews the principle of one person, one vote because it gives the corporates a greater opportunity to influence political parties and electoral outcomes; The amendment to Section 182(3) permits: (i) loss making companies to contribute to political parties; (ii) unlimited contributions to political parties enabling significant policy influence; and (ili) non-disclosure of information on political funding to shareholders; The amendments permitting non-disclosure of information on political funding are violative of the right to information under Article 19(1)(a). The right to information on funding of political parties is a natural consequence of the of this Court in ADR (supra) and PUCL (supra) because the underlying principle in the s is that an informed voter is essential for a functioning democracy. Information about funding to political parties is necessary for an informed voter since the Symbols 1968 and the provisions of the Tenth Schedule allow political parties to influence legislative outcomes and policies; The infringement of the right to information does not satisfy the proportionality standard vis-a-vis the purpose of curbing black money. Even if the argument that the Electoral Bond Scheme fulfills the purpose is accepted, non-disclosure of information on political funding is not the least restrictive means to achieve the purpose; m. The infringement of the right to information does not satisfy the proportionality standard vis-a-vis the purpose of guaranteeing informational privacy because: i.