However, the High Court in its final and dated 29.03.2017, erroneously equated the commercial tenancy of a private person in Enemy Property with the property of the Central 860 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Government and accordingly, has quashed the recovery notice dated: 28.05.2011; j) that the Enemy Property occupied by private persons for private business interests is not synonymous with the interest of the State and is starkly in contrast to the objectives and scheme of the Constitution. Accordingly, it was contended that the interest or property of a private person i.e. respondent No.1 is not exempted from property taxes under Article 285 of the Constitution of India; k) that the Custodian under the Act is empowered to realize from occupants all taxes, fees and charges and pay to the local authority. In the present case, it is admitted by the Custodian- respondent No.2 that local taxes are payable to the local authority in respect of the enemy property in question vide Certificate dated 03.10.2002; l) that although the Municipal Commissioner granted a concession before the High Court, the said concession was due to a threat of summoning him to file a personal affidavit. In this regard, learned senior counsel argued that there can be no concession or estoppel against the statute. The power to levy tax is plenary. If the State is held to be bound by a concession made in one case, it would result in serious consequences for the State as such a concession is against public interest. That it was held in State of Uttar Pradesh vs. Uttar Pradesh Rajya Khanij Vikas Nigam Sangharsh Samiti, (2008) 12 SCC 675 that statement, assurance, or even an undertaking of any officer or counsel is irrelevant and that there can be no estoppel against the statute. With the aforesaid submission, learned senior counsel prayed that the impugned passed by the High Court may be set aside. Submissions of the respondent No.1–assessee: 6. Per contra, learned senior counsel Sri Guru Krishna Kumar, appearing for the assessee, supported the impugned and submitted that the High Court has proceeded to pass the impugned on a sound appreciation of the facts of the matter and the applicable law and the same would not call for any interference by this Court. It was further contended as under: [2024] 2 S.C.R. 861 Lucknow Nagar Nigam & Others v. Kohli Brothers Colour Lab. Pvt. Ltd. & Others a) that the appellant-Municipal Corporation has approached the court with unclean hands and has deliberately suppressed critical facts. The Municipal Corporation’s reliance on the case of Amir Mohammad Khan is misleading. In this regard, it was submitted that the Municipal Corporation has conspicuously omitted to disclose that the in the aforementioned case has been rendered nugatory due to the promulgation of an Ordinance and the enactment of the Enemy Property (Amendment and Validation) Act, 2017 (hereinafter referred to as, “Amendment Act, 2017”). Further, as a result of the said and various tenants’ claims, respondent No.1 herein approached this Court seeking a clarification.