Therefore, although liquidation should be the last resort, yet one should also ensure that further delay in arriving at this decision does not have the effect of hampering the realizations that can be made through liquidation. 153. The decision in Innoventive Industries Limited v. ICICI Bank and Another reported in (2018) 1 SCC 407 held that the Maharashtra Relief Undertakings (Special Provisions) Act, 1959 was repugnant to the IBC, 2016 and elaborated on the scheme of the IBC, 2016 by placing reliance on the 2015 Report as aforementioned. The relevant observations are reproduced hereinbelow: 2154 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports “13. One of the important objectives of the Code is to bring the insolvency law in India under a single unified umbrella with the object of speeding up of the insolvency process. As per the data available with the World Bank in 2016, insolvency resolution in India took 4.3 years on an average, which was much higher when compared with the United Kingdom (1 year), USA (1.5 years) and South Africa (2 years). The World Bank’s Ease of Doing Business Index, 2015, ranked India as country number 135 out of 190 countries on the ease of resolving insolvency based on various indicia. xxx xxx xxx 16. At this stage, it is important to set out the important paragraphs contained in the Report of the Bankruptcy Law Reforms Committee of November 2015, as these excerpts give us a good insight into why the Code was enacted and the purpose for which it was enacted: xxx xxx xxx Speed is of essence Speed is of essence for the working of the bankruptcy code, for two reasons. First, while the “calm period” can help keep an organisation afloat, without the full clarity of ownership and control, significant decisions cannot be made. Without effective leadership, the firm will tend to atrophy and fail. The longer the delay, the more likely it is that liquidation will be the only answer. Second, the liquidation value tends to go down with time as many assets suffer from a high economic rate of depreciation. From the viewpoint of creditors, a good realisation can generally be obtained if the firm is sold as a going concern. Hence, when delays induce liquidation, there is value destruction. Further, even in liquidation, the realisation is lower when there are delays. Hence, delays cause value destruction. Thus, achieving a high recovery rate is primarily about identifying and combating the sources of delay. xxx xxx xxx [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2155 State Bank of India & Ors. v. The Consortium of Mr. Murari Lal Jalan and Mr. Florian Fritsch & Anr. Objectives The Committee set the following as objectives desired from implementing a new Code to resolve insolvency and bankruptcy: (1) Low time to resolution. (2) Low loss in recovery. (3) Higher levels of debt financing across a wide variety of debt instruments.” (emphasis supplied) 154. Several decisions of this Court have highlighted the importance of a speedy resolution process under the IBC, 2016 in the context of either completing the CIRP process in a time-bound manner as per Section 12 of the IBC, 2016 or ensuring that the Liquidator does not cause unnecessary delay or inefficiency in the Liquidation process.