This also was done as a ‘one-time measure’. Thus, the legal issue to be decided is as to whether respondent no.1 has to be treated as a fresh entrant without the benefit of his past service on deputation from 21.05.2008 till 13.06.2014 or he has to be treated as a fresh appointee, in which case the clock would, to say so, start ticking only from 26.08.2015. 25. The contention of the learned counsel for the appellant is correct that if the interpretation advanced by the respondent no.1 is given to Clause 6, then it would cover all persons who, at any point of time, may have worked with the appellant for four years, getting the benefit, even with gaps in service in the appellant. A person on deputation was given a one-time benefit for being considered for promotion to the post of Deputy General Manager (Technical) by the appellant for ending prolonged litigation and for ensuring fairness and justice to the candidates who chose to face competition by going for direct recruitment as would be clear from the Minutes dated 20.10.2017 quoted above of the Executive Committee’s Meeting [2024] 12 S.C.R. 531 National Highway Authority of India v. G Athipathi and Others held on 12.10.2017. The said Minutes leave a window open for people who may have been absent from service in the appellant for certain period, but with the caveat that such period of absence was restricted to the purposes of fulfilling administrative formalities e.g. submission/acceptance of technical resignation/retirement etc. 26. In the present case, respondent no.1 was absent from the service of the appellant not for any of the above specific purposes, but on a permanent basis i.e., being sent back to his parent department. Unfortunately, to our mind, the ‘etc.’ in ‘fulfilling administrative formalities e.g. submission/ acceptance of technical resignation/ retirement etc’ would not cover situation of respondent no.1. Obviously, respondent no.1 cannot take advantage of a saving provision for such deputationists who, for some period, had to go back but for the purposes of returning to the appellant, which have been incorporated in the Minutes supra. 27. For reasons aforesaid, we find that the appellant has made out a case for interference and the decision taken by the appellant not to grant promotion to the respondent no.1 needs to be upheld. The other three persons had been granted promotion for the reason that those three persons were very much working in/with the appellant on the date of consideration and had completed more than four years of minimum required service whereas the respondent no.1 had not completed four years of minimum required service. Hence, he could not have been considered for promotion from 23.07.2017 as per the direction of the CAT since he had not completed four years on the post of the Manager (Technical) after having joined pursuant to direct recruitment on such post, on which service could only be reckoned from 26.08.2015. Even otherwise, ‘…past services can be taken into consideration only when the Rules permit the same or where a special situation exists, which would entitle the employee to obtain such benefit of past service.’3 The instant case, as projected by respondent no.1 is not covered under the Circular or the Minutes dated 20.10.2017 of the Meeting dated 12.10.2017.