They are necessarily related to, transforming and 15 (2021) 8 SCC 1 1606 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports in turn being transformed by, other provisions, words and phrases in the Constitution. Even if a dynamic interpretation is necessary and the meaning necessary to fit the changed circumstances is found in the text itself, it would be always better to tread a path as close as possible to the text, by gathering the plain ordinary meaning, to see whether that meaning is validated by the constitutional values and the scheme. While giving a broad and generous construction to the constitutional provisions, the rule of “plain meaning,” or “literal” interpretation, which remains “the primary rule” has to be kept in mind. (b) The Object, Purpose and Limits of Article 341 :- 33. Since the whole matter hinges on the interpretation of Article 341 of the Constitution of India, let us see the Object and Purpose of its insertion in the Constitution. 34. Article 341 states that the President may with respect to any State or Union territory, and where it is a State after consultation with the Governor thereof, by public notification, specify the castes, races and tribes or parts of or groups within castes, races or tribes which shall for the purposes of the Constitution be deemed to be Scheduled Castes in relation to that State or Union territory, as the case may be. Clause (2) of the said Article 341 states that Parliament may by law include in or exclude from the list of Scheduled Castes specified in the notification issued under Clause (1) any caste, race or tribe or part of or group within any caste, race or tribe, but save as aforesaid a notification issued under the said clause which shall not be varied by any subsequent notification. Similar provision is made for Scheduled Tribes in Article 342. Article 342 (A) pertaining to the socially and educationally backward classes is slightly differently worded, which was inserted by the Constitution (102nd Amendment) Act, 2018 w.e.f 14.08.2018. 35. As transpiring from the extracts of the Constituent Assembly Debates placed on record, there was no Article similar to Article 341 as found in the present Constitution. Noticing the need for creating a list of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, some amendments in the draft Constitution were moved by Dr. Ambedkar, Chairman of the Drafting Committee of the Constitution. The relevant part of the proceedings of the Constituent Assembly debate on September 17, 1949 is reproduced hereunder: - [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1607 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. “The Honourable Dr. B. R. Ambedkar: Sir, I move: “That with reference to amendment No. 147 of List IV (Eighth Week), for sub-clause (w) of clause (1) of article 303, the following sub-clause be substituted: — (w) Schedule Castes’ means such castes, races or tribes or parts or groups within such castes, races or tribes as are deemed under article 300A of this Constitution to be Scheduled Castes for the purposes of this Constitution.