12.2. Rule 8 provides that in case where a warehouse serves more than one district, the warehouse shall be deemed to be a depot for storing bottled arrack and for supply of arrack to the person holding a licence to sell arrack in retail. Under Rule 9, the Commissioner may fix the number of warehouses, the area to be served by each of the warehouse and their location. Removal of arrack from the warehouse is provided for in Rule 16. As per sub-rule (1), no arrack shall be removed from the warehouse without payment of excise duty. Sub-rule (2) says that arrack shall not be issued from the warehouse or depot except in bottles or in polythene sachets of approved capacity and design. As per sub-rule (3), the same shall be issued from the warehouse or depot only to the persons holding a licence to sell arrack in retail. Rule 17 says that the price to be paid by the government to the distillery for the rectified spirit supplied by the distillery to the warehouse, the price to be paid by the government to the warehouse for manufacture and bottling of arrack and the price to be paid by the lessees for the right of retail vend of arrack to the government for the supply of bottled arrack shall be fixed by the Excise Commissioner from time to time with prior approval of the government. Rule 17, being relevant, is extracted hereunder: 17. Fixation of price: - The price to be paid by government to the distillery for the rectified spirit supplied by the 304 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports distillery to the warehouse, the price to be paid by the government to the warehouse for manufacture and bottling of arrack and the price to be paid by the lessees for the right of retail vend of arrack to the government for the supply of bottled arrack shall be fixed by the Commissioner from time to time with prior approval of the government and the same shall be communicated to the persons concerned. 13. From the above conspectus, we find that under Section 17 of the Excise Act, the state government grants lease of right to any person for manufacture etc. of liquor, arrack in this case. The licencing authority i.e. Excise Commissioner may grant to the lessee a licence in terms of his lease. In supplement to the above provision, Rule 3(1) of the 1987 Rules provides that the Excise Commissioner shall grant a licence for any specified area or areas for the manufacture or bottling of arrack. From 01.07.1993, sub- rule (2) of Rule 3 has come into force as per which provision the licence under Rule 3 of the 1987 Rules shall be issued only to a company or agency owned or controlled by the state government or to a state government department. This is how Mysore Sales was granted licence for manufacture and bottling of arrack. Through a process of auction, excise contractors are shortlisted who are thereafter granted licence or permits to vend arrack by retail in their respective area(s).