From 04th May, 2009, i.e., the starting point for the limitation period for initiation of contempt action to commence, till 10th February, 2014, i.e., the date of the filing of the contempt petition, the appellant failed to effect mutation, as ed by the Single Judge. Could it be said that every day thereafter that the appellant did not effect mutation gave rise to a fresh cause of action so as to constitute a “continuing wrong/breach/ offence”? To our minds, the answer is a clear and unequivocal ‘NO’. Upon application of the test laid down by this Court in Balkrishna Savalram Pujari (supra) and M. Siddiq (supra), it is evident that when, by 04th May, 2009, the appellant failed to implement the direction of the High Court, the act of disobedience was complete as on that date itself. Every day thenceforth, the name of the first respondent continued to be absent from the revenue records but 1120 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports such absence could not be characterised as the injury or wrongful act itself; it was merely the damage which flowed from the standalone act of breach committed by the appellant – that of not effecting the mutation. The injury was not repetitive or in other words, did not arise de die in diem, but rather, it was the effect of the injury which continued till the date the first respondent presented the contempt petition on 10th February, 2014. 79. Having held that the nature of breach or offence committed by the appellant was not in the nature of a “continuing wrong/breach/offence”, the bar of limitation was rightly pressed by the Division Bench (original) to halt the claim of the first respondent at the threshold itself, since the period of limitation to initiate the contempt action ended at least by May end of 2010. The decision of the Division Bench (original) in dismissing the first respondent’s contempt petition as time-barred was unexceptionable and the Division Bench (review) acted illegally in reversing the same assuming the jurisdiction to review which, on facts and in the circumstances, was not available to be exercised. 80. The contempt petition was, thus, barred by limitation and no case for claiming exemption having been set up, the same deserved outright dismissal. EPILOGUE 81. Having answered the two legal issues and before recording our conclusion, we cannot resist reflecting on the point of fraud having vitiated the proceedings. This point, in turn, emerges because the Division Bench (review) erroneously held the State to have practised fraud; and this discussion is necessitated since, to the contrary, there seems to be sufficient reason to hold the first respondent responsible therefor. The writ petition, in the form the same had been presented by the first respondent, does evince clear suppression of a material fact bing on fraud on court and having the potential to render it not maintainable. But to this too, there is a caveat. This question, though quite fundamental in nature, does not appear to have been argued by the appellant before the High Court and also before us.