SEBI had used the term “opaque” to describe the FPIs which it submits was mistaken by the Expert Committee to imply the rules on “opaque structures” under the FPI Regulations, 2014. 26. SEBI claims no disability in its investigation into the Adani group on account of the amendments to the FPI Regulations. On merits, SEBI has argued that the FPI Regulations, 2014 in fact did not prohibit opaque structures. They were permitted upon meeting certain conditions including the condition that they provide details of their beneficial ownership as and when called upon to do so. The 2018 amendment required mandatory disclosures by all FPIs with a few exceptions. It marked a shift towards tightening the regulations with mandatory disclosure of beneficial owner details. This new mandate rendered the previous provision on disclosure upon demand otiose. Mandatory upfront disclosure meant that the undertaking to disclose beneficial ownership by FPIs was a vestige. This led to provisions on “opaque structures” being omitted in 2019 upon the recommendation of the Working Group headed by a former Deputy Governor of RBI. 27. In essence, SEBI argues that the difficulty it faces in obtaining information regarding holders of economic interest in FPIs does not change regardless of the amendments in the FPI Regulations. SEBI contends that a challenge arises due to differing regulations in jurisdictions where entities with economic interest in an FPI operate. The ambiguity lies in beneficial ownership identification, which is based on control or ownership in some jurisdictions, potentially overlooking entities with economic interest but no apparent control. Consequently, investment managers or trustees, utilizing arrangements like voting shares, may be recognized as beneficial owners, leading to a potential failure in identifying the actual investing entities with economic interest, especially when holdings are distributed across multiple FPIs. 28. We find merit in SEBI’s arguments and do not find any reason to interfere with the regulations made by SEBI in the exercise of its delegated legislative powers. SEBI has traced the evolution of its regulatory framework, as noticed above, and explained the reasons [2024] 1 S.C.R. 193 VISHAL TIWARI v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS for the changes in its regulations. The procedure followed in arriving at the current shape of the regulations is not tainted with any illegality. Neither has it been argued that the regulations are unreasonable, capricious, arbitrary, or violative of the Constitution. The petitioners have not challenged the vires of the Regulations but have contended that there is regulatory failure based on SEBI’s alleged inability to investigate which is attributed to changes in the regulations. Such a ground is unknown to this Court’s jurisprudence. In effect, this Court is being asked to replace the powers given to SEBI by Parliament as a delegate of the legislature with the petitioners’ better . The critique of the regulations made as an afterthought and based on a value of economic policy is impermissible. Additionally, we find no merit in the argument that the FPI Regulations, 2014 have been diluted to facilitate mischief. The amendments far from diluting, have tightened the regulatory framework by making the disclosure requirements mandatory and removing the requirement of it being disclosed only when sought.