[2024] 5 S.C.R. 845 Kolkata Municipal Corporation & Anr. v. Bimal Kumar Shah & Ors. 20. The position is thus, clear. Upon application of the Municipal Commissioner under Section 537 for the acquisition of land for opening of a street, square, park etc., the Government may proceedings to be taken for acquiring land on behalf of the appellant- Corporation as if the land is needed for a public purpose within the meaning of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894. 21. Sections 535, 536 and 537 of the Act are extracted hereinbelow for ready reference: “Section 535. Acquisition of property. – The Corporation shall, for the purposes of this Act, have power to acquire and hold movable and immovable property or any interest therein, whether within or outside the limits of Kolkata. Section 536. Acquisition of immovable property by agreement.— (1) Whenever it is provided in this Act that the Municipal Commissioner may acquire, or whenever it is necessary or expedient for any purpose of this Act that the Municipal Commissioner shall acquire, any immovable property, such property may be acquired by the Municipal Commissioner on behalf of the Corporation by agreement on such terms and at such rates or prices or at rates or prices not exceeding such maxima as may be approved by the Mayor-in-Council either generally for any class of cases or specially in any particular case. (2) Whenever, under any provision of this Act, the Municipal Commissioner is authorised to agree to pay the whole or any portion of the expenses of acquiring any immovable property, he shall do so on such terms at such rates or prices or at rates or prices not exceeding such maxima as may be approved by the Mayor-in-Council either generally or in particular as aforesaid. (3) The Municipal Commissioner may on behalf of the Corporation acquire by agreement any easement affecting any immovable property vested in the Corporation and the provisions of sub-sections (1) and (2) shall apply to such acquisition. 846 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Section 537. Procedure when immovable property cannot be acquired by agreement. – (1) Whenever the Municipal Commissioner is unable under section 536 to acquire by agreement any immovable property or any easement affecting any immovable property vested in the Corporation or whenever any immovable property or any easement affecting any immovable property vested in the Corporation is required for the purpose of this Act, the State Government may, in its discretion, upon application of the Municipal Commissioner, made with the approval of the Mayor-in-Council and subject to other provisions of this Act, proceedings to be taken for acquiring the same on behalf of the Corporation, as if such property or easement were land needed for public purpose within the meaning of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (I of 1894) (2)….. (3) For the purpose of acquisition of immovable property under this section, the Land Acquisition Act, 1894, shall be subject to the amendment that the market value of any land or building to be acquired shall be deemed, for the purpose of sub-section (1) of section 23 of the Act, to be the market-value determined according to the disposition of such immovable property at the date of declaration under sub-section (1) of section 4 thereof in respect of such immovable property.