Further, as Section 29(2) of the Tenancy Act provided that a landlord shall not be entitled to claim possession of the land leased out to a tenant otherwise than by way of an application to the Mamlatdar under the Tenancy Act, the Bench concluded that the landlord could recover possession of the land from the tenant only on the grounds provided in the Tenancy Act and in no other way could the landlord obtain possession from the tenant. 27. In Kallawwa Shattu Patil and others vs. Yallappa Parashram Patil and another4, a learned Judge noted that suo motu proceedings initiated by the Revenue authorities under Section 32G of the Tenancy Act had to be dropped in view of the fact that the land was found to be Watan land and no purchase price in respect thereof could be fixed till the date of regrant of the land in favour of the landlord. On facts, the learned Judge found that the Watan land was lawfully leased in favour of the tenant long before 01.04.1957 and the said lease was subsisting on the appointed day. The provisions of the Tenancy Act, therefore, became applicable to the lease forthwith and only the compulsory purchase of the land, as per Section 32G of the Tenancy Act, could not be availed of by the tenant until the regrant of the said land to the landlord under the Abolition Act. The learned Judge held that the landlord did not create a fresh tenancy in favour of the tenant on 01.04.1957 and Section 32O of the Tenancy Act had no application, as it would not be attracted to a case where the land was already leased out to the tenant prior to 01.04.1957. The proviso to Section 8 of the Abolition Act was stated to create a legal fiction for an extremely limited purpose, i.e., for the purpose of fixing the price in respect of the statutory purchase of the land. For that limited purpose, the land is deemed to have been leased out from the date of regrant but it did not follow therefrom that the landlord created a fresh lease in respect of the said land on the date of the regrant as the old lease had never come to an end. 28. In Pradeeprao @ Virgonda Shivgonda Patil vs. Sidappa Girappa Hemgire since deceased through his heirs and LRs. Ginnappa 4 (1992) 1Mah.LJ 34 [2024] 3 S.C.R. 611 Baban Balaji More (Dead) by LRs. & others v. Babaji Hari Shelar (Dead) by LRs. & others Sidappa Hemgire and others5, a learned Judge again affirmed the aforestated legal position and held that merely because there was a regrant of the Watan land in favour of the Watandar, it did not mean that a new lease was created on that day in favour of the tenant. The learned Judge found that after the Watan was abolished, the landlord paid the amount towards the occupancy price within the prescribed time and the land stood regranted to him.