PW-4 (Sandeep) removed the tile portion above the porch and entered the porch. He then broke open the door using a pestle and entered the poomukham (veranda). PW-4 then broke the glass ventilator above the main door and inserted his hand to open the door latch. As they entered, they found Latha’s dead body in the passage near the stairs. The body of Ramachandran and Chitra were found dead in the upper floor room on the northern side of the house. Karthiyani Amma was found in the northern room on the ground floor unconscious. PW-6 & PW-23 took Karthiyani Amma to hospital. It was PW-32 (Ajaya Kumar), the Investigating Officer of the case, who reached the spot at 09:15 AM and saw blood droplets starting from the northern room on the ground floor to the room on the south. When he opened the door, he found the accused lying on the floor with a cut injury on his left wrist. 8. PW-30, ASI registered the suo motu FIR and PW-32, conducted the investigation. The appellant was sent up for trial. In all, the prosecution examined 32 witnesses (PWs 1-32) and proved Exhibits P1 to P45 series. Material Objects [M.Os.] 1-122 were also marked by the prosecution. The accused did not examine any defence witnesses; but proved Exhibits D1-D5. The accused also gave a statement while being examined under Section 313 Cr.P.C. At the Section 313 stage, he advanced a version to the effect that there was a pact between him and Latha to commit suicide; that he had come to the house of Latha on 03.11.2005 with the intention that both of them shall commit suicide; that Latha had kept the door open as usual and he gained entry into the house through such door; that after he entered the house, he found Latha and others were all lying dead/injured; that on account of grief, he had cut his left wrist in an attempt to commit suicide and that he was found available in the house in an unconscious state. The appellant was clearly implying that somebody else had gained access into the house and caused the death of all victims. It is then that he proceeded to commit suicide. 9. The case entirely rests on circumstantial evidence. Both the trial Court and the High Court have closely marshalled the circumstantial evidence in the case to arrive at the conclusion that the accused alone is responsible for the death of the four deceased. Additionally, it also relied on the fact that the accused having been found present in the house had offered no plausible and cogent explanation about 922 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the sequence of events that had transpired inside, leading to the sole and irresistible conclusion that the accused has perpetrated the heinous crime. Contentions: 10. We have heard Mr. Renjith B. Marar, learned counsel for the appellant, who advanced elaborate arguments, covering the entire spectrum by making available a chart setting out the summary of the deposition of the prosecution witnesses, the relevant exhibits marked and the argument of the defence in separate columns.