The definition of a term in the ISI Glossary, which has a different purpose, cannot, in case of a conflict, override the clear indication of the meaning of an identical expression in the same context in the HSN. In the HSN, block board is included within the meaning of the expression “similar laminated wood” in the same context of classification of block board. Since the Central Excise Tariff Act, 1985 is enacted on the basis and pattern of the HSN, the same expression used in the Act must, as far as practicable, be construed to have the meaning which is expressly given to it in the HSN when there is no indication in the Indian tariff of a different intention.’ 15. Again, in O.K. Play (India) Ltd. vs. Commissioner of Central Excise, Delhi-III, Gurgaon,3 another 3-Judge Bench of this Court affirmed that the scheme of Central Excise Tariffs is based on the HSN and the Explanatory Notes appended thereto and, therefore, the HSN along with its Explanatory Notes provide a safe guide for interpretation of entries. 16. Ergo, in resolving disputes relating to tariff description and classification, a ready reckoner is the internationally accepted nomenclature in the HSN. That being said, we must hasten to reiterate what was pointed out in Wood Craft Products Ltd. (supra). If the headings/entries in the First Schedule to the Act of 1985 are different from the headings/entries in the HSN or if they are not fully 3 [2005] 1 SCR 1086 : (2005) 2 SCC 460 [2024] 12 S.C.R. 907 Commissioner of Central Excise, Salem v. M/s Madhan Agro Industries (India) Private Ltd. aligned, reliance cannot be placed upon the HSN for the purpose of classifying those goods under the Act of 1985. 17. To sum up, the First Schedule to the Act of 1985 is based on the HSN, which is an internationally standardized system developed and maintained by the World Customs Organization for classifying products, and unless the intention to the contrary is found within the Act of 1985 itself, the HSN and the Explanatory Notes thereto, being the official interpretation of the Harmonized System at the international level, would be of binding guidance in understanding and giving effect to the headings in the First Schedule. It is only when a different intention is explicitly indicated in the Act of 1985 itself that the HSN would cease to be of guidance. In effect, the legislative intention to depart from the HSN must be clear and unambiguous. For instance, in Camlin Ltd. v. Commissioner of Central Excise, Mumbai4, this Court found that there was an inconsistency between the Central Excise tariff description and the entry in the HSN and, therefore, reliance upon the HSN entry was held to be invalid. It was affirmed that it is only when the entry in the HSN and the tariff description in the First Schedule to the Act of 1985 are aligned that reliance would be placed upon the HSN for the purpose of classification of such goods under the correct tariff description.