The institutions known at the commencement of this Constitution as the Banaras Hindu University, the Aligarh Muslim University and the Delhi University, and any other institution declared by Parliament by law to be an institution of national importance. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1905 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. have been rightly regarded so far as national institutions and they have been rightly placed under the jurisdiction of the Union.”48 116. The foresight of the Constituent Assembly is, thus, evident in that the Assembly aimed to preserve and reinforce the national and secular character of AMU. By incorporating AMU within Entry 63 of List I in the Seventh Schedule, the Assembly decisively entrenched its secular and national identity through constitutional enactment. Consequently, any remnants of affiliation to a specific community were deliberately eliminated. 117. “Aligarh Muslim University is not a theological convent. It is a university, and a university cannot function as a communal institution”, observed Mr. M.C. Chagla [one of the most (if not the most) reputed and respected Chief Justices of the High Court of Bombay] serving as the Minister of Education, Government of India at the time, while addressing Parliament during the debate on the AMU (Amendment) Bill, 1965—a bill that was ultimately enacted by Parliament49. Excerpts from Mr. Chagla’s speech in the Parliament50 read as under: “In my opinion, the Aligarh Muslim University is a national institution, an institution of national importance. There are four Central universities: there is the Banaras Hindu University; there is the Aligarh Muslim University; there is the Delhi University; and there is the Visvabharati University. All these institutions are institutions of national importance. If you look at the Seventh Schedule entry 63 therein is very significant; entry 63 of List I of the Seventh Schedule gives the power to the Parliament to legislate […] My submission to this House is that Aligarh University has neither been established nor is being administered by the Muslim Community. […] You had first the Muslim college which was founded by Sir Syed Ahmed. Sir Syed Ahmed has asked the British Government of those days 48 Constituent Assembly Debates, Volume 9, 30th August 1949 (9.127.209) 49 Lok Sabha Debates, Twelfth Session, Third Series Vol. XLIV – No. 9, 27th August 1965 50 Lok Sabha Debates, Twelfth Session, Third Series Vol. XLIV – No. 9, 27th August 1965 1906 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports to establish a university and the British Government established the University. Therefore, the establishment of the institution was by the legislature and not by the community […] Now I cannot understand how it can be said that the administration is in the hands of the minorities. The administration of the University depends upon the law. During the British times it depended upon this Act. After independence it depends upon the Act, as had been amended by the Parliament. Does Mr. Anthony suggest that it is open to the Aligarh University or the Muslim community to change the administration of the university even to the slightest degree and go contrary to what the Parliament has laid down?