In simple words, the conclusion has to logically flow from the facts. If it does not, then the courts can interfere, treating the lack of reasonable nexus as an error of law. Thirdly, jurisdictional review permits review of errors of law when constitutional or statutory terms, essential for the exercise of power, are misapplied or misconstrued. Fourthly, judicial review is permissible to check improper exercise of power. For instance, it is an improper exercise of power when the power is not exercised genuinely, but rather to avoid embarrassment or for wreaking personal vengeance. Lastly, judicial review can be exercised when the authorities have not considered grounds which are relevant or has accounted for grounds which are not relevant. 61. Error in decision making process can vitiate a /decision of a statutory authority. In terms of Section 19(1) of the PML Act, a decision-making error can lead to the arrest and deprivation of liberty of the arrestee. Though not akin to preventive detention cases, but given the nature of the entailing arrest – it requires careful scrutiny and consideration. Yet, at the same time, the courts should not go into the correctness of the opinion formed or sufficiency of the material on which it is based, albeit if a vital ground or fact is not considered or the ground or reason is found to be non-existent, the of detention may fail.52 62. In Centre for PIL and another v. Union of India and another,53 this Court observed that in judicial review, it is permissible to examine the question of illegality in the decision-making process. A decision which is vitiated by extraneous considerations can be set aside. Similarly, in Uttamrao Shivdas Jankhar v. Ranjitsinh Vijaysinh Mohite Patil,54 elaborating on the expression “decision making process”, this Court held that judicial interference is warranted when there is no proper application of mind on the requirements of law. An error in the decision making process crops up where the authority fails to consider a relevant factor and considers irrelevant factors to decide the issue. 52 Ram Manohar Lohia v. State of Bihar and another, AIR 1966 SC 740 and Moti Lal Jain v. State of Bihar and others, AIR 1968 SC 1509 53 [2011] 4 SCR 445 : (2011) 4 SCC 1 54 [2009] 9 SCR 538 : (2009) 13 SCC 131 [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2413 Arvind Kejriwal v. Directorate of Enforcement 63. In the present case, as noticed above, the “reasons to believe” have recorded several facts and grounds. One of the grounds for arrest relates to the formulation of the excise policy with the intent to obtain kickbacks/bribes. What has been discussed above in the arguments raised by Arvind Kejriwal relates to corruption amounting Rs. 45 crores to facilitate Goa elections for the AA Party. However, the “reasons to believe” also refer to the policy itself and that it was vitiated on the ground of criminality, viz. to promote cartelization and benefit from those providing bribes or kickbacks. We have briefly referred to the terms of the excise policy, albeit for clarity we would like to reproduce the findings recorded in the case of Manish Sisodia v. Central Bureau of Investigation,55 a authored by one of us (Sanjiv Khanna, J.