The control of the Central Government and the Parliament’s jurisdiction to legislate on AMU could in a way be terminated if the minority community is conceded the right to close down AMU even. A ‘right to administer’ (although may not include the ‘right to maladminister’) could include the ‘right not to administer’ and, thus, bring about a closure of AMU. This would not be in the greater national interest. 124. AMU’s status having been firmly established upon the adoption of the Constitution through its inclusion in Entry 63 of List I, any alteration of AMU’s status—particularly as executed by the Amendment of 1981— is untenable. Any such modification must be effected through an appropriate Constitutional amendment under Entry 63 of List I, adhering to the procedure set forth in Article 368 of the Constitution and such changes cannot be made merely by amending the relevant statute, i.e., the AMU Act. Under these circumstances, the intention of the framers of the Constitution to affirm the national and secular character of AMU may not be altered, particularly not in the manner proposed by the appellants. 125. None of us on the bench was born within a decade of India attaining independence. What was the pre-independence scenario is, thus, not known to any one of us. Whatever we know is through our ancestors or books and treatises on the subject. We have not been trained to decide any issue based on our personal knowledge. However, judicial notice can of course be taken of facts specified in section 57 of the Evidence Act, 1872 (currently, section 52 of the Bharatiya Sakshya Adhiniyam, 2023) which would include matters of public history based on appropriate books or documents of reference but the court, if it is called upon by a person, may refuse to take judicial notice of any fact unless and until such person produces any such book or document as it may consider necessary to enable it do so. There is, however, no such tether insofar as debates of the Constituent Assembly or proceedings of Parliament are concerned. Judicial notice thereof can be taken without any reservation and what have been debated, as seen from documented records, are assumed to be correct. Does that mean that the courts are bound to accept the contents of the debates as portrayal of the correct position on facts? The answer may not be in the affirmative in all cases. But, although courts are 1910 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports not bound to accept the speeches of members of the Constituent Assembly or the members of the Parliament including ministers, made on the floor of the Parliament, as unvarnished and unimpeachable truth, the speeches are of sufficient persuasive value and if, the factual accuracy of the contents of such speeches are not shown to be questionable or incorrect, there is no reason as to why the court should feel shy to rely on them. Mr. M.C. Chagla, followed by Prof. Nurul Hasan, was emphatic on the floor of the Parliament that AMU was not a minority institution.