883 Sanjeevkumar Harakchand Kankariya v. Union of India & Ors. 3, List II and by clause (c) of Section 57, it was inserted into List III as Item 11-A. This transposition has led to the argument that the particular amendment introduced by Section 57 (b)(iii) and (c), is invalid since it destroys a basic feature of the Constitution as originally enacted, namely, federalism. We are unable to appreciate how the conferment of concurrent power on the Parliament, in place of the exclusive power of the States, to the constitution and organisation of certain courts affects the principle of federalism in the form in which our Constitution has accepted and adopted it...” (Emphasis supplied) We must also take note of the observations in State of T.N. v. G.N. Venkataswamy.20 It was held: “12. It is no doubt correct that with the coming into force of Entry 11-A List III it is no more the exclusive power of the State Legislature to legislate under the said entry but “administration of justice” and “constitution and organisation of all courts” are the subjects on which the State Legislature can legislate. These expressions have been authoritatively interpreted by this Court in Narothamdas case [1950 SCC 905 : 1951 SCR 51 : AIR 1951 SC 69] . It is, therefore, settled that under Entry 11-A the State Legislature has the power to make laws thereby enlarging or reducing the powers of the courts. The State Legislature can create new courts, reorganise the existing courts, provide jurisdiction to the said courts and also take away the existing jurisdiction if it so desires. We, therefore, see no reason why a State Legislature cannot confer additional jurisdiction on existing revenue courts to recover any public dues as arrears of land revenue.” 11. Administration of justice, as it flows from the above, pertains to investment in all Courts with general, territorial and pecuniary jurisdiction. All the powers necessary for constitution and organisation of Courts except this Court, and the High Courts, to some extent, 20 [1994] Supp. 1 SCR 322 : (1994) 5 SCC 314 884 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports have been invested with the State as well as the Centre, under this Entry. Laws made by the Centre would necessarily prevail over the State made laws, should there be any inconsistency between the two, and the laws made by the latter shall be unconstitutional to the extent that they are inconsistent with the Central laws, by virtue of the Doctrine of Repugnancy, the contours of which can be well understood by a perusal of the in M. Karunanidhi v. Union of India.21 The Constitution Bench held: “8. It would be seen that so far as clause (1) of Article 254 is concerned it clearly lays down that where there is a direct collision between a provision of a law made by the State and that made by Parliament with respect to one of the matters enumerated in the Concurrent List, then, subject to the pro- visions of clause (2), the State law would be void to the extent of the repugnancy.