The State is, therefore, under a legal duty to protect the natural resources. Similarly, in Lal Bahadur vs. State of U.P., (2018) 15 SCC 407 (“Lal Bahadur”), this Court held that the Government has a duty to protect the environment and the Courts also must bear in mind that in cases concerning environmental governance, it has to discharge its duties by assessing the case on the basis of the material placed before it. This is because matters concerning environmental governance concern not just the living, but also generations to come, which is the basis of the doctrine of inter-generational equity. 42.11 Similarly, in Centre for Public Interest Litigation vs. Union of India, (2012) 3 SCC 1 (“Centre for Public Interest Litigation”), it was observed that the doctrine of equality which emerges from the concept of justice and fairness, must guide the State in determining the actual mechanism for distribution of natural resources. This Court has further observed that every holder of public office by virtue of which he acts on behalf of the State or public body is ultimately accountable to the people in whom the sovereignty vests. As such, all powers so vested in a public officer are meant to be exercised for public good and promoting the public interest. Every holder of a public office is therefore a trustee. If a decision is taken without any principle or without any rule, it is unpredictable and such a decision is an antithesis to the decision taken in accordance with the rule of law. This Court had further observed that the public trust doctrine is a part of the law of the land and it has grown from Article 21 of the Constitution [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2109 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. of India. This implies that the power vested by the State in a public authority should be used as a trust coupled with duty to be exercised in larger public and social interest. Power is to be exercised strictly adhering to the statutory provisions and fact situation of a case. 42.12 It is observed that in the instant case, while the Union of India made a submission before this Court that no final decision had been taken by it regarding the environmental release of transgenic mustard hybrid DMH-11, yet, pursuant to the letter written on behalf of the applicant to the Hon’ble Minister for Environment, the matter moved swiftly possibly “from the top” and GEAC responded by constituting another Expert Committee which gave its recommendation to GEAC as desired. 42.13 Furthermore, while granting permission of the environmental release of transgenic mustard hybrid DMH-11, the condition imposed was that usage of any formulation or herbicide would not be permitted for cultivation in the farmer’s field and any such use in the farmer’s field without due approval would attract appropriate legal action under various enactments. There is no indication as to how the use of any herbicide could be prevented, rather, the condition not to use any herbicide was open-ended without having any means to check whether any herbicide would be used in the farmer’s field pursuant to the environmental release.