There was a ‘Look Out Circular’ issued against the respondent and he was in fact arrested at the Mumbai Airport on 25.12.2022 just while departing for USA. This was at the instance of the petitioner herein. Respondent was taken into custody and had to seek bail after over a month of police custody. It is difficult to fathom as to how the petitioner can reasonably expect her spouse to continue in a cordial marital relationship with her, when she has filed a criminal case against him, got a “Look Out Ciruclar” issued against him, and even got him arrested. 9.15 Further, on one hand, petitioner has sought the dismissal of the respondent’s application for divorce under Article 142(1) on the ground that she wishes to continue the marriage, while in the same breath, she has demanded a huge sum of money as permanent alimony equalling the share received by the respondent’s ex-wife. 9.16 In the present case, it is evident from the averments and submissions as well as our interactions with the parties that the petitioner’s criminal complaint, among other things, has left an incurable scar on the relationship between the parties. The parties have had a brief period of relationship, which can be deciphered even without getting into the contrasting allegations of how many months they have exactly resided together. Soon after a year of marriage, the respondent-husband had filed the police complaint and the first petition for divorce, which means that the relationship between them had deteriorated by then. For almost two years since then, they have been embroiled in disputes before various courts. The parties have gone through multiple rounds of mediation and have not been able to arrive at a mutually agreeable settlement. The respondent-husband has appeared before this Court and has [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1389 Rinku Baheti v. Sandesh Sharda categorially stated that he does not wish to enter into any further discussions with the petitioner-wife. The petitioner has also pursued her application and contention regarding the fixation of permanent alimony and has vehemently argued that the respondent is a man of means and she should be given alimony commensurate to both the status of the respondent and the amount received by the ex-wife of the respondent, all of which has been termed as being an extortion by the respondent-husband. In the said scenario, we do not think that there is any chance for the parties to now reconcile their differences and lead a normal married life hereinafter. Forcing the parties to now move back to the Family Court and pursue their legal remedies, or to compel them to carry on in the present marital bond for the sake of formality, would amount to bestowing unwarranted hardship on the already sparring spouses. Both options, in our view, are unviable and cannot be ed in the present case. Criminal proceedings between spouses and their impact on marital ties: 10. The provisions in the criminal law are for the protection and empowerment of women but sometimes are used by certain women more for purposes that they are never meant for.