At this stage, we 22 [2007] 7 SCR 705 : (2007) 6 SCC 586 23 [2018] 4 SCR 1 : (2018) 7 SCC 1 [2024] 11 S.C.R. 761 In Re: Directions in The Matter of Demolition of Structures may clearly state that there can really be no straitjacket approach in the sphere of separation of powers when issues involve democracy, the essential morality that flows from the Constitution, interest of the citizens in certain spheres like environment, sustenance of social interest, etc. and empowering the populace with the right to information or right to know in matters relating to candidates contesting election. There can be many an example where this Court has issued directions to the executive and also formulated guidelines for facilitation and in furtherance of fundamental rights and sometimes for the actualisation and fructification of statutory rights.” 43. This Court, therefore, observed that this Court can issue a direction to the executive and also formulate guidelines for facilitation and in furtherance of fundamental rights and sometimes for the actualization and fructification of statutory rights. 44. The aforesaid decision would lead to a question, as to whether when the adjudicatory functions are entrusted to the judiciary, can the officers of the State Government take upon themselves the adjudicatory function and without a person undergoing a trial be inflicted with a punishment of demolition of his properties. In our view, such a situation would be wholly impermissible in our constitutional set up. The executive cannot replace the judiciary in performing its core functions. IV. DOCTRINE OF PUBLIC TRUST AND PUBLIC ACCOUNTABILITY 45. When we are considering the issue with regard to ‘Rule of Law’ and ‘Separation of Powers’, we will also have to take into effect the matters where the executive transgresses its power and acts as a Judge and demolishes the structures of the persons without following the procedure prescribed by law. Though the doctrine of public trust has been largely applied by this Court in environmental matters, it cannot be disputed that the executive exercises its powers as a ‘trustee’ of the citizens. Therefore, the executive actions must be consistent with maintaining public trust. 46. Conversely, when the executive acts in breach of the principles of ‘rule of law’ and ‘separation of powers’, the doctrine of public trust 762 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports and accountability would come into play. This Court in the case of Delhi Airtech Services Private Limited and another v. State of Uttar Pradesh and another24 observed thus: “213. These authorities are instrumentalities of the State and the officers are empowered to exercise the power on behalf of the State. Such exercise of power attains greater significance when it arises from the statutory provisions. The level of expectation of timely and just performance of duty is higher, as compared to the cases where the power is executively exercised in discharge of its regular business. Thus, all administrative norms and principles of fair performance are applicable to them with equal force, as they are to the government department, if not with a greater rigour.