(7) For the purposes of subsection (6)(b) the following are to be disregarded— (a) the requirements of section 73 of the Sentencing Code (reduction in sentences for guilty pleas); (b) sections 74, 387 and 388 of the Sentencing Code (assistance by defendants: reduction or review of sentence) and any other rule of law by virtue of which an offender may receive a discounted sentence in consequence of assistance given (or offered to be given) by the offender to the prosecutor or investigator of an offence; (c) any rule of law as to the totality of sentences. (8) The provision made in accordance with subsection (6)(c) should be framed in such manner as the Council considers most appropriate for the purpose of assisting the court, when sentencing an offender for the offence, to determine the appropriate sentence within the offence range. (9) The provision made in accordance with subsections (2) to (8) may be different for different circumstances or cases involving the offence. (10) The sentencing starting point in the offence range— (a) for a category of case described in the guidelines in accordance with subsection (2), is the sentence within that range which the Council considers to be the appropriate starting point for cases within that category— (i) before taking account of the factors mentioned in subsection (6), and 712 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (ii) assuming the offender has pleaded not guilty, and (b) where the guidelines do not describe categories of case in accordance with subsection (2), is the sentence within that range which the Council considers to be the appropriate starting point for the offence— (i) before taking account of the factors mentioned in subsection (6), and (ii) assuming the offender has pleaded not guilty.” Section 128 of the Coroner and Justice Act, 2009 “128 Monitoring (1) The Council must— (a) monitor the operation and effect of its sentencing guidelines, and (b) consider what conclusions can be drawn from the information obtained by virtue of paragraph (a). (2) The Council must, in particular, discharge its duty under subsection (1)(a) with a view to drawing conclusions about— (a) the frequency with which, and extent to which, courts depart from sentencing guidelines; (b) the factors which influence the sentences imposed by courts; (c) the effect of the guidelines on the promotion of consistency in sentencing; (d) the effect of the guidelines on the promotion of public confidence in the criminal justice system. (3) When reporting on the exercise of its functions under this section in its annual report for a financial year, the Council must include— [2024] 5 S.C.R. 713 Sunita Devi v. The State of Bihar & Anr. (a) a summary of the information obtained under subsection (1)(a), and (b) a report of any conclusions drawn by the Council under subsection (1)(b).” Sentencing Act 2020 (UK) Section 3 of the Sentencing Act, 2020 “DEFERMENT OF SENTENCE 3 Deferment (1) In this Code “deferment ” means an deferring passing sentence on an offender in respect of one or more offences until the date specified in the , to enable a court, in dealing with the offender, to have regard to— (a) the offender’s conduct after conviction (including, where appropriate, the offender’s making reparation for the offence), or (b) any change in the offender’s circumstances.