On 23.08.2013, this Court acknowledged receipt of the final report of the TEC. 11.10 Thereafter, on 07.10.2016, the Union of India submitted that no release of GMOs will be made till 17.10.2016 since the Government has sought views from the public and on receipt of such views, they will be considered by a committee of experts. On 22.11.2017, when this matter was taken up for consideration, the Union of India apprised the Court that it had not taken a final decision, on the issue of plantation of GM Mustard and that all stakeholders shall be considered before taking a final decision. 11.11 Coming to the present timeline, on 18.10.2022 the GEAC granted conditional approval for conducting trials of DMH-11/ GM Mustard. The same was communicated to the applicants on 25.10.2022. In terms of the above developments, the Petitioners have handed over updated prayers in Court seeking: 1868 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports i. Complete ban on Ht Crops. The decision of GEAC to approve release of DMH-11 is violative of Article 14 and Article 21 of the Constitution of India being vitiated by non-application of mind. ii. The overall process of risk assessment must be in conformity with the Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety. iii. Stakeholder participation, socioeconomic considerations, societal impact and sustainability should be incorporated in the risk assessment process at an early stage. iv. Studies must be conducted by the Regulatory Body itself and the regulator must not depend solely on the data provided by the applicant itself. v. The Biosafety Dossier containing results of these studies must be published on the website of the GEAC. vi. Confined Field Trials should be only in isolated conditions to prevent any contamination in ICAR institutes/State Agricultural Universities. vii. No Genetically Modified Crops should be permitted where India is the centre of origin or diversity. viii. There should be chronic toxicity testing in terms of long- term exposure before declaring those crops safe. ix. State of the art bio-regulatory systems must be set up in collaboration with countries having the necessary expertise in socio-economic risk assessment. Statutory Framework 12. At the outset, it is imperative to discuss the statutory framework relating to GMOs. The Seeds Act enacted by the Legislature in 1966, notified on 29.12.1966, regulates the quality of seeds for sale and other connected matters. S.3 of this Act, created the Central Seed Committee to advise the Government on matters relating to the said Act. S.4 mandates creation of the Central Seed Laboratory and State Seed Laboratory. S.7 regulates the sale of certain varieties of seeds, which have been so notified. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1869 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. 13. The Insecticides Act, 1968 was enacted to regulate the use of insecticides with a view to prevent risk to human beings or animals. S.4 of this Act, constitutes the Central Insecticides Board to “advise the Central Government and State Government on technical matters arising out of the administration of this Act.” S.5 constitutes a Registration Committee, to “register insecticides after scrutinising their formulae and verifying claims made by the importer or the manufacturer, as the case may be, as regards their efficacy and safety to human beings and animals.” 14.