8. The PIN identifies and marks a specific location of the user’s choosing on Google Maps. The PIN need not be dropped at the location where the user/the user’s device is located at the time of sharing the PIN. The PIN dropped and shared need not be the real-time location of the user sharing the PIN. 9. Google Maps allows users to share information, such as the PIN, with third parties. This is explained in Google’s privacy policy, which is available at https:policies.google. com/privacy?hI=en-US, and shares as follows: “Many of our services let you share information with other people, and you have control over how you share [emphasis supplied]”. Users consent to the privacy policy when they create a Google Account. In this case, if a user wants to share a PIN, they can do so by clicking on the ‘share’ button. This generates a link to Google Maps that the user can share with others through messaging platforms or other modes of online communication. When clicked, the link directs users (having access to the link) to the location where the PIN was dropped on the map. 10. The Google Maps PIN feature, which includes the creation of a PIN or the sharing of such a PIN with another user, does not impinge on the user’s privacy as the user has full control over sharing of such information. The user with access to the link can only access the static 110 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports location pinned and shared on Google Maps. The pinned location does not enable real-time tracking of the user or their device. Even if the PIN were to coincide with a user’s location at a given time, this would (a) be the static location pinned by the user; and (b) only be accessible to others when a user affirmatively shares the PIN with them by clicking on the share button.” (emphasis added) 10.1. In paragraph 10 of the affidavit, Google LLC stated that the user has full control over sharing PINs with other users. Moreover, it does not impinge on the user’s privacy, as the user retains full control. Most importantly, it is stated that the PIN location does not enable real-time tracking of the user or the user’s device. Therefore, the condition of the accused dropping a pin on Google Maps, as it stands, is completely redundant as the same does not help the first respondent. 10.2. Imposing any bail condition which enables the Police/ Investigation Agency to track every movement of the accused released on bail by using any technology or otherwise would undoubtedly violate the right to privacy guaranteed under Article 21. In this case, the condition of dropping a PIN on Google Maps has been incorporated without even considering the technical effect of dropping a PIN and the relevance of the said condition as a condition of bail. This cannot be a condition of bail. The condition deserves to be deleted and ed accordingly. In some cases, this Court may have imposed a similar condition.