Thus, admittedly, when the mortgage was redeemed and the Secured Asset was transferred to the Subsequent Transferee by way of the Assignment Agreement dated 28.08.2023, Special Leave Petition Nos. 19523-19524 of 2023 challenging the exercise of such right of redemption was already filed and pending before this Court. 167. In M/s Siddamsetty Infra Projects Pvt. Ltd. v. Katta Sujatha Reddy & Ors. reported in 2024 INSC 861 this Court held that doctrine of lis pendens kicks in the moment a proceeding is instituted/filed irrespective of whether such filing is still defective or notice is yet to be issued by the court. It further held that any transfer made during the pendency of such proceeding would be subject to the final result of the litigation or in other words would be hit by lis pendens under Section 52 of the TPA. The relevant observations read as under: - “49. The purpose of lis pendens is to ensure that the process of the court is not subverted and rendered infructuous. In the absence of the doctrine of lis pendens, a defendant could defeat the purpose of the suit by alienating the suit property. This purpose of the provision is clearly elucidated in the explanation clause to Section 52 which defines “pendency”. Amending Act 20 of 1929 substituted the word “pendency” in place of “active prosecution”. The Amending Act also included the Explanation defining the expression “pendency of suit or proceeding”. “Pendency” is defined to commence from the “date of institution” until [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1715 Celir LLP v. Mr. Sumati Prasad Bafna & Ors. the “disposal”. The argument of the respondents that the doctrine of lis pendens does not apply because the petition for review was lying in the registry in a defective state cannot be accepted. The review proceedings were “instituted” within the period of limitation of thirty days. The doctrine of lis pendens kicks in at the stage of “institution” and not at the stage when notice is issued by this Court. Thus, Section 52 of the Transfer of Property Act would apply to the third-party purchaser once the sale was executed after the review petition was instituted before this Court. Any transfer that is made during the pendency is subject to the final result of the litigation.” (Emphasis supplied) 168. Since, in the present case the Special Leave Petitions were already instituted and pending before this Court as on 28.08.2023 i.e., the date of execution of the Assignment Agreement for the transfer of the Secured Asset in favour of the Subsequent Transferee, the said Assignment Agreement dated 28.08.2023 and the transfer thereto is beyond a shadow of doubt hit by lis pendens. 169. It has been contended by the Subsequent Transferee that Section 52 of the TPA has a modified application in Maharashtra i.e., the area in which the said property is situated by virtue of the State Amendment made to Section 52 of the TPA by the Bombay Amendment Act, 1939 (Act XIV of 1939). The relevant provision as amended reads as under: - “52.