It was also observed that under sub-section (2) of Sections 49 and 59 of the Consumer Protection Act, 2019 the State Commission and the NCDRC, respectively, may declare any terms of the contract being unfair to any consumer to be null and void and there exists ample power to declare any terms of the contract as unfair, if in its opinion, its introduction by the insurer has certain elements of unfairness. In Debashis Sinha v. R.N.R. Enterprise (2023) 3 SCC 195, the dispute was regarding amenities promised by the real estate developers in their brochures/advertisement which were not delivered by them. It was noted that once the NCDRC arrived at a finding that the respondents therein were casual in their approach and had even resorted to unfair trade practice, it was its obligation to consider the appellants’ grievance objectively and upon application of mind and thereafter give its reasoned decision. If at all, the appellants had not forfeited any right by registration of the sale deeds and if indeed the respondents were remiss in providing any of the facilities/amenities as promised in the brochure/advertisement, it was the duty of NCDRC to set things right. 8. In Pradeep Kumar v. Postmaster General (2022) 6 SCC 351, in those facts and circumstances it was found by this Court that fraud was committed by an officer and employee of the post office. It was 6 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports held that the Post Office, as an abstract entity, functions through its employees. Employees, as individuals, are capable of being dishonest and committing acts of fraud or wrongs themselves or in collusion with others. Such acts of bank/post office employees, when done during their course of employment, are binding on the bank/ post office at the instance of the person who is damnified by the fraud and wrongful acts of the officers of the bank/post office and such acts within their course of employment will give a right to the appellants to legally proceed for injury, as this is their only remedy against the post office. Thus, the post office, like a bank, can and is entitled to proceed against the officers for the loss caused due to the fraud, etc. but this would not absolve them from their liability if the employee involved was acting in the course of his employment and duties. 9. From a perusal of the above noted cases, it would disclose that they are circumstances where certain aspects were contained in the agreements in question, but a contention was raised contrary to the same and this Court had rejected such contention. The learned senior counsel would however contend that though the parties may have agreed on certain aspects in the agreement, what is important is the intention of the parties and any correspondence exchanged between the parties as a prelude to the transaction before executing the agreement will be relevant to know the intention of the parties. It is in that regard contended that the email dated 05.10.2005 was prior to the agreement dated 11.01.2006 and as such the said intention should be gathered and given effect to.