Thus, a lion’s share of the sale consideration was already paid to the appellant-defendant at the time of the execution of the disputed agreement and the remaining amount was hardly 15% of the total value of the suit land as agreed upon between the parties. Therefore, it does not stand to reason that the respondent-plaintiff being a Police Constable would part with a huge sum of Rs.16,00,000/- towards a transaction to purchase land and thereafter, agree to defer the execution of the sale deed to a date almost 16 months later with the balance amount being a fraction of the total sale consideration. 29. Apparently thus, there was no rhyme or reason as to why, the respondent-plaintiff would agree to defer the execution of the sale deed to a date more than a year and four months after the execution of the disputed agreement. Thus, the disputed agreement i.e., the agreement to sell read in entirety is highly suspicious and does not inspire confidence at all. 30. As per the disputed agreement, the consequence of non-appearance of the appellant-defendant at the Registrar’s office on 19th September, 2008 and his failure to get the sale deed registered, was that the appellant-defendant would be liable to return the earnest money of [2024] 10 S.C.R. 95 Lakha Singh v. Balwinder Singh & Anr. Rs.16,00,000/- along with a penalty of equal amount, totalling to Rs.32,00,000/- and even thereafter, the respondent-plaintiff would be entitled to file a case in the civil Court for the execution of the sale deed. Simultaneously, it was agreed that if the balance amount was not paid by the respondent-plaintiff, the earnest money would be liable to be forfeited by the appellant-defendant. 31. As per the averments made in the plaint, the respondent-plaintiff did not even once, during the aforesaid period of 16 months, approach the appellant-defendant for getting the sale deed executed in terms of the disputed agreement. He claimed that he straight away proceeded to the Sub-Registrar’s office on 19th September, 2008 and remained present there from 09:00 am to 05:00 pm waiting for the appellant- defendant to turn up and get the sale deed registered. However, the appellant-defendant failed to appear at the office of the Sub-Registrar on the scheduled date. Admittedly, the respondent-plaintiff did not give any advance intimation to the appellant-defendant imploring him to receive the balance consideration and execute the sale deed on the scheduled date i.e. 19th September, 2008 or anytime thereafter. Instead, he directly proceeded to file the subject suit in the month of December, 2008 wherein, alternative prayers, one for the execution of the sale deed and the other for the refund of the earnest money were made. 32. Ex-facie, the averments set out in the plaint and the evidence of the respondent-plaintiff do not bear an iota of truth and appear to be nothing but a sheer concoction. The circumstances noted above, the evidence of the respondent-plaintiff; the disputed agreement and the plaint clearly indicates that the disputed agreement seems to have been prepared on a blank stamp paper on which, the thumb impressions of the illiterate appellant-defendant had been taken prior to its transcription.