Further, it emphasized that “extra care and precaution”, needs to be observed “by a police officer while ensuring that the identity of a minor child is not disclosed as per the law”. It directed that Delhi Police “shall periodically audit/review the contents of the History Sheets and will ensure confidentiality and a leeway to delete the names of such persons/juveniles/children who are, in the course of investigation, found innocent and are entitled to be expunged from the category of “relations and connections’” in a History Sheet”. 141. The crucial aspect of the above decision is that the Court exercised its suo motu powers to give directions to the police in other states to not act arbitrarily against the marginalized communities. It noted: “Having partially addressed the grievance of the appellant, we now, in exercise of our suo motu powers, propose to expand the scope of these proceedings so that the police authorities in other States and Union Territories may also consider the desirability of ensuring that no mechanical entries in History Sheet are made of innocent individuals, simply because they happen to hail from the socially, economically and educationally disadvantaged backgrounds, along with those belonging to Backward Communities, Scheduled Castes & Scheduled Tribes. While we are not sure about the degree of their authenticity, 228 [2024] 5 SCR 927 : 2024 INSC 383 [2024] 10 S.C.R. 583 Sukanya Shantha v. Union of India & Ors. but there are some studies available in the public domain that reveal a pattern of an unfair, prejudicial and atrocious mindset. It is alleged that the Police Diaries are maintained selectively of individuals belonging to Vimukta Jatis, based solely on caste-bias, a somewhat similar manner as happened in colonial times… We must bear in mind that these pre-conceived notions often render them ‘invisible victims’ due to prevailing stereotypes associated with their communities, which may often impede their right to live a life with self-respect.” (emphasis added) The Court expected that the State governments “take necessary preventive measures to safeguard such communities from being subjected to inexcusable targeting or prejudicial treatment”. It directed all the States/Union territories to revisit their policies to adopt a “periodic audit mechanism overseen by a senior police officer” to scrutinize the entries made in history sheets. It was noted that “[t]hrough the effective implementation of audits, we can secure the elimination of such deprecated practices and kindle the legitimate hope that the right to live with human dignity” will be protected. 142. The Court has also warned the police on misusing the power to arrest. In Arnesh Kumar v. State of Bihar,229 a three-judge Bench adverted to the misapplication of the provision for arrest by the police. It was noted: “Arrest brings humiliation, curtails freedom and cast scars forever. Law makers know it so also the police. There is a battle between the law makers and the police and it seems that police has not learnt its lesson; the lesson implicit and embodied in the Code of Criminal Procedure. It has not come out of its colonial image despite six decades of independence, it is largely considered as a tool of harassment, oppression and surely not considered a friend of public.