In light of this and the fact that the Appellant only collected Rupees 810.18 crores, as on 31.03.2014, means that the Appellant was in loss of Rupees 454.71 crores—which continues to remain recoverable. [2024] 12 S.C.R. 2017 Noida Toll Bridge Company Ltd. v. Federation of Noida Residents Welfare Association and Others e. submissions by Respondent no. 2 (noida) 8. Lastly, NOIDA, as represented by Mr. Ravindra Kumar, Sr. Adv. & Mr. Binay Kumar Das, Advocate-on-Record, made the limited submission that the Appellant failed to pay the charges under the permission granted for the display of outdoor advertisements. The outstanding dues on 31.10.2021 were Rupees 37.59 crores. Additionally, the Appellant has not placed on record the amount collected from outdoor advertisements. F. issues 9. Having given our thoughtful consideration to the rival submissions at length, the following issues arise for the consideration of this Court: i. Whether the Writ Petition purportedly filed in public interest was maintainable before the High Court? ii. Whether the non-floating of tenders was justified in the instant case? iii. Whether the power to levy fees could be delegated to the Appellant and if so, whether it was a case of excessive delegation? iv. Whether Article 14 of the Concession Agreement read with the formula used therein is opposed to public policy? v. Whether the Total Project Cost and Returns thereon have been recovered by the Appellant? vi. Whether NOIDA is entitled to recover dues from the Appellant, in regards to the display of outdoor advertisements? G. AnAlysis G.1 Maintainability of the Writ Petition before the High Court 10. At the very outset, it is essential to adjudicate the prefatory issue of maintainability before addressing the merits of the present case. In this regard, three primary prongs arise from NTBCL’s contention challenging the very maintainability of the Writ Petition: (i) the locus standi of Respondent No. 1; (ii) ascertaining delay and laches; and (iii) the scope of judicial intervention in a commercial contract such as the Concession Agreement. All of these issues require careful analysis. 2018 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports G.1.1. Locus standi of Respondent No. 1 11. NTBCL contended that the petition before the High Court amounted to proxy litigation, initiated by Respondent No. 1 at the behest of NOIDA, allegedly to enable NOIDA to evade its obligations under the Concession Agreement. In support of this contention, NTBCL cited landmark cases such as Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board and others v. T.T. Murali Babu1 and Ramana Dayaram Shetty v. International Airport Authority of India,2 arguing that the petition filed by Respondent No. 1 did not satisfy the test of espousing a public cause which is a sine qua non for the maintainability of a PIL. 12. It is well-established that while public interest litigation serves as an effective tool for addressing the grievances of the public, it must be carefully scrutinised to prevent misuse or abuse by those with ulterior motives. Courts must look beyond the surface to assess whether the litigation has been genuinely initiated in the interest of the public or as a result of mischief.3 The essence of PIL lies in its aim to remedy genuine public wrongs or injuries rather than being driven by personal vendetta or malice.4 13.