It would be immaterial that back then the educational institution was not granted the status and treated as a linguistic or a religious minority institution. Thus, the details of the persons who had established the institution, though earlier in point of time, is relevant and determines the character of the institution. Such interpretation would do justice to Article 30(1) and not deny and rob minority educational institutions of constitutional guarantees. 120. The question of whether they qualify as a ‘minority’ has to be answered with reference to the date of enforcement of the Constitution. The Constitution upon its adoption guaranteed fundamental rights to specific groups such as ‘persons’, ‘citizens’, ‘religious and linguistic minorities’, ‘women’, ‘the Scheduled Castes’ and ‘Scheduled Tribes’. These groups consist of such members as conceived by the Constitution. For example, Part II of the Constitution and provisions of the Citizenship Act 1955 enacted in pursuance of the power provided under Article 11 stipulate conditions for acquiring citizenship. Only those persons who satisfy the conditions prescribed can enforce the rights guaranteed to citizens as a class. Similarly, the President in exercise of the power under Article 341 may notify castes, tribes or groups that would be Scheduled Castes for the purposes of the Constitution. 121. The only criteria that is prescribed for right-bearers under Article 30 is that they should be linguistic or a religious minorities. The courts have, however, specified what constitutes a minority. Chief Justice Kirpal, writing for the majority of the eleven-Judge Bench in TMA Pai (supra) observed that the minority must be determined [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1743 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. based on the test of numerical minority within the State.103 If a group or community is required to prove that it was a religious or linguistic minority at the time of establishment of the institution (where the institution was established before the commencement of the Constitution), it would lead to a situation where the fundamental right is conferred upon a group other than the one intended by the Constitution. The demography of the Dominion of India underwent a drastic change upon partition. The Constitution, through Article 30(1), confers a right on those communities that were disadvantaged upon the commencement of the Constitution and not the group that was disadvantaged in pre-independent India. 122. We reject the argument that the test of whether an educational institution is a minority institution must be examined based on whether the community or the group which had established the institution was a minority at the time of its establishment in pre-independent India. The purpose of the provision as highlighted in the preceding sections is to ensure that the minorities are able to preserve and promote their linguistic and religious culture. For this purpose, the status of the group/community, that had established the institution, on the date of commencement of the Constitution should be considered. The test of establishment will apply to future situations on the day when new educational institutions are established. The protection under clause (1) of Article 30 cannot be denied to institutions established before the commencement of the Constitution for the reason that at the time of establishment in pre-independent India, the founders were not aware that they would receive protection of Article 30(1).