As a matter of fact, Parliament cannot take over the control of industries engaged in the production and manufacture of intoxicating liquors by making a declaration under Entry 52 of List I, since the said entry governs only Entry 24 in List II but not Entry 9 in List II.” 2002 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Referring to the decision in Calcutta Gas Company (supra), the three-Judge Bench observed that Entry 8 is more specific as compared to Entry 24 because the former expressly refers to ‘production and manufacture’, and thus, it is all the more clear that the production of liquor cannot be covered by Entry 52.123 69. In Calcutta Gas Company (supra) and McDowell (supra), this Court adopted the following established principles of interpretation to resolve the overlap between legislative entries: (a) generalia specialibus non derogant; (b) an interpretation which does not render an entry redundant must be adopted; and (c) parliamentary supremacy in Article 246 will only operate if the entries in the State List and the Union List cannot be reconciled. The approach in Calcutta Gas Company (supra) and McDowell (supra) on the issue of reconciling the conflict between the entries varies on one aspect. In Calcutta Gas Company (supra), the Constitution Bench adopted a three- step analysis: a. On an application of the principle of generalia specialibus non derogant, the industry of the specific entry (in this case, the gas industry) was traced to Entry 25 and not Entry 24 (which is a general entry); b. Entry 52 is co-extensive with Entry 24. Thus, the scope of Entry 54 is circumscribed by the scope of Entry 24; and c. The gas industry is included in Entry 25 (and not Entry 24) which is not subject to Entry 52. Thus, Entry 52 cannot cover the gas industry. 70. In McDowell (supra), the three-Judge Bench applied the principle that the State Legislature has full competence to enact laws with respect to those entries which are not expressly subject to an entry in List I or List III. 71. The question is whether Parliament under Entry 52 of List I takes over the industry of intoxicating liquor covered by Entry 8. The answer is in the negative. Irrespective of whether the term ‘industry’ is interpreted 123 “28. […] Article 246 cannot be invoked to deprive the State Legislatures of the powers inhering in them by virtue of entries in List II. To wit, once an enactment, in pith and substance, is relatable to Entry 8 in List II or for that matter any other entry in List II, Article 246 cannot be brought into yet hold that State Legislature is not competent to enact that law.” [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2003 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons in a narrow or a wide manner (a point that is vehemently contested by both sides), the industry of intoxicating liquor cannot be taken over by Parliament under Entry 52 of List I for the following reasons: a.