[Para 18] Case Law Cited Velamuri Venkata Sivaprasad (Dead) by lrs. v. Kothuri Venkateswarlu (dead) by lrs. And Others [1999] Suppl. 4 SCR 522 : (2000) 2 SCC 139 – referred to. List of Acts Hindu Widow’s Remarriage Act, 1856. List of Keywords Hindu Widow’s Remarriage; Partition; Title or interest over the property; Validity of the lease deed; Valid conveyance; Legitimate right; Deed of conveyance. Case Arising From CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No.8616 of 2017 From the and dated 18.01.2008 of the High Court of Kerala at Ernakulam in SA No. 653 of 1996 [2024] 4 S.C.R. 385 Kizhakke Vattakandiyil Madhavan (Dead) Thr. Lrs. v. Thiyyurkunnath Meethal Janaki and Ors Appearances for Parties V. Chidambaresh, Sr. Adv., A. Venayagam Balan, K. P. Rajagopal, Jaimon Andrews, Piyo Harold Jaimon, Naresh Kumar, Advs. for the Appellants. C. K. Sasi, John Mathew, Advs. for the Respondents. / of the Supreme Court Aniruddha Bose, J. The present appeal arises out of a suit for partition instituted by one Thiyyer Kunnath Meethal Chandu (Chandu) claiming 8/20 shares in the suit property described in the schedule to the plaint as “Kizhake vattakkandy enha Pattayathil perulla Asarikandy pasramba, 6 feetinu ki-pa 37, the-va 35”. The appellants before us were the defendants in the said suit, and are successors-in-interest of one Sankaran. The latter and Chandu are uterine brothers, both being the sons of one Chiruthey, who was married twice. Her first husband was Madhavan, within whose wedlock Sankaran was born. Madhavan passed away sometime before the year 1910, though the exact year of death has not been specified in the pleadings nor it has appeared in evidence. After Madhavan’s death, Chiruthey contracted second marriage with Neelakandan, who was the father of Chandu. 2. The suit property is situated in survey no. 56/8 in the village Eravattur in the district of Kozhikode, State of Kerala. The parties belong to Malayakamala Sect. The succession law guiding their inheritance applicable before Hindu Succession Act, 1956 that became operational was the modified form of Mitakshara law applicable to the Makkathayees. But this factor is not of much relevance for adjudication of the present appeal. Though the suit was instituted in the year 1985, to trace the source of claim of the plaintiff, one has to trace the title of the property. In the last year of the 19th Century, (i.e. 1900) as it has transpired from evidence adduced in course of the trial, the owners of the property appear to be Madhavan and he, along with his mother Nangeli had executed a deed of mortgage (Ext. B1 in the suit) on 07.05.1900 in favour of one Nadumannil Anandhan Kaimal, son of Cheriya Amma Thamburatti in relation to the subject-property. As we find from the of the High Court 386 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports which is assailed in this appeal, the mortgage deed itself recorded that possession of the property was not given to the mortgagee. The plaintiff claims his share to the suit property from his mother, described in the plaint as owner of the property, Chiruthey.