When the language of the Article is plain and ambiguous, undue importance cannot be placed on the marginal note appended to it.85 In Kesavananda Bharati v. State of Kerala,86 Hegde, J (speaking for himself and A K Mukherjea, J) observed as follows: “620. […] To restate the position, Article 368 deals with the amendment of the Constitution. The Article contains both the power and the procedure for amending the Constitution. No undue importance should be attached to the marginal note which says “Procedure for amendment of the Constitution”. Marginal note plays a very little part in the construction of a statutory provision. It should have much less importance in construing a constitutional provision. The language of Article 368 to our mind is plain and unambiguous. Hence we need not call into aid any of the rules of construction about which there was great deal of debate at the hearing. As the power to amend under the Article as it originally stood was only implied, the marginal note rightly referred to the procedure of amendment. The reference to the procedure in the marginal note does not negative the existence of the power implied in the Article.” (emphasis supplied) 174. Distinct from the marginal note, in the text of the provision, there is a conscious use of the term “Legislature” instead of the “House of Legislature” at appropriate places. It is evident from the drafting of the provision that the two terms have not been used interchangeably. The first limb of Article 194(2) pertains to “anything said or any vote given by him in the Legislature or any committee thereof”. However, 85 Justice GP Singh, Principles of Statutory Interpretation, 15th Ed. (2021), 188-189; Bengal Immunity Com- pany Limited v. State of Bihar, [1955] 2 SCR 603 86 [1973] Suppl. 1 SCR 1 : (1973) 4 SCC 225 574 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports in the second limb, the phrase used is “in respect of the publication by or under the authority of a House of such a Legislature of any report, paper, votes, or proceedings.” There is a clear departure from the term ‘Legislature’ which is used in the first limb, to use the term “House of such a Legislature” in the second limb of the provision. It is clear, therefore, that the provision creates a distinction between the “Legislature” as a whole (in the first limb) and the “House” of the same legislature (in the second limb). 175. As correctly submitted by Mr Raju Ramachandran, senior counsel for the appellant, the terms “House of Legislature” and “Legislature” have different connotations. “House of Legislature” refers to the juridical body, which is summoned by the Governor pursuant to Article 174.87 The term “Legislature”, on the other hand, refers to the wider concept under Article 168,88 comprising the Governor and the Houses of the Legislature. It functions indefinitely and continues to exist even when the Governor has not summoned the House. 176. The use of the phrase “in the Legislature” instead of “House of Legislature” is significant.