The committee might have added that the rule of law and parliamentary democracy itself are imperilled if laws are incomprehensible. They did say that it is of fundamental importance in a free society that the law should be readily ascertainable and reasonably clear, and that otherwise it is oppressive and deprives the citizen of one of his basic rights. It is also needlessly expensive and wasteful. Reed Dicerson, the famous American draftsman, said it cost the Government and the public ‘many millions of dollars annually.” Justice Iyer in State of Karnataka v. Ranganatha Reddy (1977) 4 SCC 471 further observes that “our draftsmen handle foreign know-how meant for different circumstances, and without full grasp of the economic regulation or the leisure and facilities for such study”. He went on to further state that: “In a country where the people are, by and large, illiterate, where a social revolution is being pushed through by enormous volume and variety of legislation and where new economic adventures requiring unorthodox jural techniques are necessitous, if legal drafting is to be equal to the challenge of change, a radicalisation of its methodology and philosophy and an ability for the legislative manpower to express themselves in streamlined, simple, project-oriented fashion is essential. In the hope that a role-conscious court communicates to a responsive Cabinet, we make this observation.” (Para 49) Ambiguous drafting leads to manifold problems and generates lengthy litigations, as it has evidently done in the case at hand. There is no clarity in the 1997 Act to suggest that it extinguishes the rights of all tenants (who inherited tenancy rights under Old Act) retrospectively. 20. This is also not the first occasion where Section 2(g) of the 1997 Act has been under consideration by this Court. In Nasimi Naqi v. Todi Tea Company Ltd. & Ors. (CA No.9052/2019, decided 666 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports on 26.11.2019) the second proviso to the same section was held to contain an inadvertent omission as the spouse was not given the right of preference for tenancy in case of a fresh agreement, which was given to certain other specified heirs. This is what was said: “The exclusion of a spouse of a deceased tenant is without rationale, discriminatory and deprives the surviving spouse of a valuable entitlement granted to the other heirs. There is a valid justification for amending the provision so as to bring the widow within the ambit of the second proviso. This is a matter which, in our view, deserves to be considered by the legislature. Having due regard to the object and purpose underlying the recognition of a right of preference under the second proviso and the social welfare purpose underlying the enactment of the legislation, it would be appropriate if this aspect is considered… There would appear to be no justification for not considering the grant of such a protection on the spouse of the original tenant. We hope and trust that this aspect of the omission in the second provisio will engage the attention of the law makers so as to fulfill the salutary purpose of the provision.” 21.