It observed that since the arbitration agreement therein was to be governed by Indian laws, the Act, 1940 would be applicable to such arbitration proceedings. The relevant observations read as under: - “2. The National Thermal Power Corporation (the ‘NTPC’) appeals from the of the Delhi High Court in FAO (OS) No. 102 of 1990 dismissing the NTPC’s application filed under Sections 14, 30 and 33 of the Arbitration Act, 1940 (No. X of 1940) to set aside an interim award made at London by a tribunal constituted by the International Court of Arbitration of the International Chamber of Commerce (the “ICC Court”) in terms of the contract made at New Delhi between the NTPC and the respondent — the Singer Company (the ‘singer’) for the supply of 1170 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports equipment, erection and commissioning of certain works in India. The High Court held that the award was not governed by the Arbitration Act, 1940; the arbitration agreement on which the award was made was not governed by the law of India; the award fell within the ambit of the Foreign Awards (Recognition and Enforcement) Act, 1961 (Act 45 of 1961) (the ‘Foreign Awards Act’); London being the seat of arbitration, English courts alone had jurisdiction to set aside the award; and, the Delhi High Court had no jurisdiction to entertain the application filed under the Arbitration Act, 1940. xxx 47. The decisions relied on by counsel for the Singer do not support his contention that the mere fact of London being the place of arbitration excluded the operation of the Arbitration Act, 1940 and the jurisdiction of the courts in India. In Whitworth Street Estates (Manchester) Ltd. v. James Miller & Partners Ltd. the parties had not expressly stated which law was to govern their contract. On an analysis of the various factors, the House of Lords held that in the absence of any choice of the law governing arbitration proceedings, those proceedings were to be considered to be governed by the law of the place in which the arbitration was held, namely, Scotland because it was that system of law which was most closely connected with the proceedings. Various links with Scotland, which was the place of performance of the contract, unmistakably showed that the arbitral proceedings were to be governed by the law of Scotland, although the majority of the learned Law Lords (Lords Reid and Wilberforce dissenting on the point) held that, taking into account certain other factors, the contract was governed by English law. That case is no authority for the proposition that, even where the proper law of the contract is expressly stated by the parties, and in the absence of any contrary indication, a different law governed arbitration. The observations contained [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1171 M/s Arif Azim Co. Ltd. v. M/s Micromax Informatics Fze in that do not support the contention urged on behalf of the Singer that merely because London was designated to be the place of arbitration, the law which governed arbitration was different from the law expressly chosen by the parties as the proper law of the contract.