However, the fact remains that no convincing evidence was led by the prosecution to connect the accused persons with the afore-mentioned mobile numbers. Furthermore, the prosecution admittedly, did not prove the call detail records in accordance with the mandate of Section 65B of the Evidence Act and hence, the call detail records cannot be read in evidence. Reference in this regard 362 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports may be made to the of this Court in the case of Arjun Panditrao Khotkar v. Kailash Kushanrao Gorantyal and Ors.2 52. In wake of the discussion made hereinabove, we summarise our conclusions as below: - i. That the entire prosecution story is totally concocted and does not inspire confidence. ii. The FIR(Exhibit-PAA/1) could not have been registered on the basis of the secret information received by Jai Singh, SI(PW-27) because the said information did not disclose the commission of any cognizable offence. If at all, the FIR had to be registered, the same should have been done on the basis of the statement of Shamlal Garg recorded by the police officials on 15th April, 2003. However, no such steps were taken by the police officials, thereby, creating a grave doubt on the bona fides of the actions of the Investigating Agency. iii. That the complainant party failed to offer logical explanation for failing to file an FIR even after the kidnapped boy-Sachin Garg(PW-2) had returned home. It can safely be presumed that once the kidnapped boy had returned home, the threat perception at the hands of the offenders, if any, would have been diluted/disappeared. The delay in taking legal action creates a grave doubt on the truthfulness of the entire prosecution case. iv. That the kidnapped boy-Sachin Garg(PW-2) knew accused Gaurav Bhalla(A2) from before and claims to have identified him at the time of the incident but in spite thereof, the name of Gaurav Bhalla(A2) was not disclosed to the police officials up to 20th April, 2003 which completely demolishes the veracity of the prosecution case. The omission of the names of the accused persons in the special report forwarded by Investigating Officer(PW-37) to his superior officials is also vital and creates further doubt on the conduct of the Investigating Agency. v. It is an admitted fact that the accused appellants other than Gaurav Bhalla(A2) were not known to the kidnapped boy- 2 [2020] 7 SCR 180 : (2020) 3 SCC 216 [2024] 7 S.C.R. 363 Gaurav Maini v. The State of Haryana Sachin Garg(PW-2) and they were identified by him for the first time in the dock during deposition in the Court. This creates a doubt on the dock identification of these accused by Sachin Garg(PW-2) who also admitted in the cross-examination that the accused persons were shown to him and his father by the officers of the CIA. This admission lends further succour to the conclusion that the identification of the accused by the witness Sachin Garg(PW-2) is not free from doubt. vi. That the prosecution case failed to led trustworthy evidence to establish the recovery of the currency notes at the instance of the accused because the disclosure statements were not proved as per law.