[2024] 1 S.C.R. 241 : 2024 INSC 16 Case Details Satish P. Bhatt v. The State of Maharashtra & Anr (Criminal Appeal No.42 of 2024) 03 January 2024 [Vikram Nath* and Rajesh Bindal, JJ.] Issue for Consideration The High Court took a firm stance against the appellant’s continued failure to fulfil his financial obligations, culminating in the cancellation of his bail and the of suspension of sentence. Whether the High Court was justified. Headnotes Judicial Directives – Disregard for – The High Court cancelled the of suspension of sentence and bail granted to the appellant and intervenor (petitioner before the High Court) as they violated the undertaking given before the High Court and further violated the condition in an granting extension of time to comply – Propriety: Held: Before the High Court the appellant and the intervenor filed an undertaking based on a settlement on 03.07.2018 according to which it was agreed that a total sum of Rs.4,63,50,000/- (Out of the said amount Rs.73,50,000/- was already paid and remaining amount of Rs.3,90,00,000/- was to be paid in instalments) would be paid to the complainant-respondent no.2 – Based on the said undertaking an interim protection was granted by suspending the sentence of imprisonment and they were directed to be released on bail on furnishing a personal bond – However, there was a failure to fulfil financial obligations – Appellant and intervenor made submissions before the Supreme Court regarding, who is to pay how much amount – The Court not inclined to go into the said question – The fact remains that the total amount agreed to be paid has not been paid and as per the of the High Court, the revisionists (appellant and intervenor) being in default in payment of the agreed amount, the interim protection granted by way of bail and suspension of sentence, would stand withdrawn without reference to the Court – No infirmity in the impugned of the High Court – The appeal is accordingly dismissed * Author 242 [2024] 1 S.C.R. DIGITAL SUPREME COURT REPORTS with costs quantified at Rs. 5 lakhs to be paid to the respondent No. 2 (Complainant). [Paras 7, 8, 17, 19] List of Keywords Disregard for judicial directives; undermining judicial efficacy. Other Case Details Including Impugned and Appearances CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION : Criminal Appeal No.42 of 2024. From the and dated 23.07.2019 of the High Court of Judicature at Bombay in CRLAP No.244 of 2019. Appearances: Atul Babasaheb Dakh, Diganta Gogoi, Bitu Kumar Singh, Advs. for the Appellant. Aaditya Aniruddha Pande, Siddharth Dharmadhikari, Bharat Bagla, Sourav Singh, Aditya Krishna, Siddharth Sangal, Ms. Richa Mishra, Chirag Sharma, Ms. Nilanjani Tandon, Ms. Harshita Agrawal, Manoj K. Mishra, Ghanshyam Upadhyay, A. Baskar, J.K. Mishra, Umesh Dubey, Vishal, Ms. Madhulika, Advs. for the Respondents. / of The Supreme Court Vikram Nath, J. 1. The facts of this case bring to light a situation marked by a persistent disregard for judicial directives and a lackadaisical approach to legal and financial obligations. The behaviour of the Petitioner stands as a testament to how an individual’s nonchalant attitude towards financial responsibilities and court s can undermine the essence of judicial efficacy.