In this case there is 504 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports positive evidence that the deceased and the accused were seen together by witnesses PWs 3 and 5, in addition to the evidence of PW 2.” (See also Bodhraj v. State of J&K [(2002) 8 SCC 45: 2003 SCC (Cri) 201].) 11. Thereafter, the above principles have been reiterated in the subsequent s of this Court and hold the field till date. Thus, these basic established principles can be summarized in the following terms that the chain of events needs to be so established that the court has no option but to come to one and only one conclusion i.e. the guilt of the accused person. If an iota of doubt creeps in at any stage in the sequence of events, the benefit thereof should flow to the accused. Mere suspicion alone, irrespective of the fact that it is very strong, cannot be a substitute for a proof. The chain of circumstances must be so complete that they lead to only one conclusion that is the guilt of the accused. Even in the case of a conviction where in an appeal the chain of evidence is found to be not complete or the courts could reach to any another hypothesis other than the guilt of the accused, the accused person must be given the benefit of doubt which obviously would lead to his acquittal. Meaning thereby, when there is a missing link, a finding of guilt cannot be recorded. In other words, the onus on the prosecution is to produce such evidence which conclusively establishes the truth and the only truth with regard to guilt of an accused for the charges framed against him or her, and such evidence should establish a chain of events so complete as to not leave any reasonable ground for the conclusion consistent with the innocence of accused. 12. It needs a mention here that although both the accused were put to trial to face charges under Section 302, 201 read with Section 34 of IPC, but they were acquitted of the charge of Section 34 of IPC, as it has been not established rather finding was returned that there was no common intention prior to the commission of the offence. Accused No. 02 was held guilty under Section 201 of IPC (causing disappearance of evidence) only, and was thus, sentenced to four years of imprisonment. 13. At this point, it is apposite to discuss the relevant testimonies and evidence presented by the prosecution aimed at establishing the guilt of the Appellant and Accused No. 02. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 505 Karakkattu Muhammed Basheer v. The State of Kerala 14. The prosecution presented the testimony of PW2-V.T Lakshmi and PW3-V.T Ambika (mother and sister of deceased respectively) who in their testimonies stated that the deceased Gouri told them that she was going to the house of Accused No. 02 and they saw the deceased going till the turn towards the house of Accused No.