Ltd. v. Prestige H.M. Polycontainers Ltd. & Ors. has the respondent No. 6 claimed to be the owner of the property or has an interest in the property by virtue of the “title acquired”. 72. The confirmation of the sale had no bearing after the issuance of sale certificate. Therefore, the remedy under Section 210 was rendered illusory and not a remedy actually available as the certificate of sale was already issued. Further, once the sale certificate is issued, then the remedy falls under Section 247 instead of Section 210 of the Revenue Code. At the cost of repetition, Section 247 of the Revenue Code is reproduced hereunder: “Section 247: Appeal and appellate authorities.—(1) In the absence of any express provisions of the Code, or of any law for the time being in force to the contrary, an appeal shall lie from any decision or passed by a revenue or survey officer specified in column 1 of the Schedule E under this Code or any other law for the time being in force to the officer specified in column 2 of that Schedule whether or not such decision or may itself have been passed on appeal from the decision or of the officer specified in column 1 of the said Schedule: Provided that, in no case the number of appeals shall exceed two. (2) When on account of promotion or change of designation an appeal against any decision or lies under this section to the same officer who has passed the decision or appealed against, the appeal shall lie to such other officer competent to decide the appeal to whom it may be transferred under the provisions of this Code.” 73. Assuming for the moment that the Additional Commissioner had no jurisdiction to adjudicate and decide the two appeals filed by the respondent No. 1 and respondent No. 6 respectively, yet the common passed by the Additional Commissioner allowing the appeals and remanding the matter back to the authority concerned could not have been disturbed and the High Court rightly did not disturb the same. Had the High Court taken the view that the Additional Commissioner had no jurisdiction and the passed by it was a nullity, the result would have been the revival of the illegal passed by the Additional Collector confirming the sale. 530 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 74. It is well settled principle in law that issuance of a writ or quashing/ setting aside of an if revives another pernicious or wrong or illegal then in that eventuality the writ court should not interfere in the matter and should refuse to exercise its discretionary power conferred upon it under Article 226 of the Constitution of India. The writ court should not quash the if it revives a wrong or illegal . Vide : Gadde Venkateswara Rao v. Government of Andhra Pradesh, AIR 1966 SC 828; Maharaja Chintamani Saran Nath Shahdeo v. State of Bihar, (1999) 8 SCC 16: AIR 1999 SC 3609: 1999 AIR SCW 3623; M.C.