Admittedly, the dead body was recovered after 12 days of the incident from a well. Sensitive body parts were found bitten by aquatic animals inside the well. The theory of ornaments has already been held to be a figment of imagination by the Trial Court and the High Court in an unequivocal manner. Therefore, the prosecution case regarding the identity of the dead body is not free from doubts. 23. Another circumstance which weighs against PW-1 in a material sense is the deafening silence on his part when PW-5 and PW-6 informed him regarding the factum of the deceased being thrown into the well. Notably, the said fact was brought to the knowledge of PW-1 well before 15.11.2002. Despite so, PW-1 maintained silence and did not even approach the police for investigation or information on such a crucial aspect of investigation. An anxious father would have rushed to the police station on receiving an information of this nature. The subsequent conduct of PW-1, after the receipt of such material information, is unnatural. Furthermore, PW-5 only saw the appellant taking away the child, PW-6 also saw the appellant only and PW-7 saw three persons throwing the child in the well. The versions are manifold. In such circumstances, it cannot be held that the testimony of PW-1 is trustworthy and reliable. [2024] 2 S.C.R. 405 Kalinga @ Kushal v. State of Karnataka By Police Inspector Hubli 24. Notably, it is a peculiar case wherein the appellant has been convicted for the commission of murder without ascertaining the cause of death in a conclusive manner. The report prepared by PW-14 reveals drowning as the cause of death. For attributing the act of throwing the deceased into the well upon the appellant, the prosecution has relied upon PW-7 and PW-18, the witnesses in support of the last seen theory. The testimonies of these witnesses have been held to be incredible by both Trial Court and the High Court. We suffice to observe that we agree with the findings of the said Courts on this point. Furthermore, the post mortem reveals the time of death within a time frame of 3 to 12 days. Allegedly, the death took place on 03.11.2002. Such a wide time frame concerning the crucial question of time of death raises a serious doubt on the reliability of the post mortem report. When this fact is seen in light of the already existing doubts on the identity of the deceased, one is constrained to take the report with a pinch of salt. More so, this discrepancy again brings into question the element of recovery of the dead body and identity of the deceased. 25. This Court cannot lose sight of the fact that the Trial Court had appreciated the entire evidence in a comprehensive sense and the High Court reversed the view without arriving at any finding of perversity or illegality in the of the Trial Court. The High Court took a cursory view of the matter and merely arrived at a different conclusion on a re-appreciation of evidence.