On the scope of restrictions that may be imposed on fundamental rights, it is apposite to refer to Justice Holmes in Stephen Otis & Joseph F. Gassman vs. E. A. Parker, 187 U.S. 606 (1903); 1903 SCC OnLine US SC 22, (“Stephen Otis & Joseph F. Gassman”), wherein it was held that if the State thinks that an admitted evil cannot be prevented except by prohibiting a calling or transaction not in itself necessarily objectionable, the courts cannot interfere, unless in looking at the substance of the matter they can see that it ‘is a clear, unmistakeable infringement of rights secured by the fundamental law.’ 18. The respondent-Institute has placed reliance on the letter of CBDT and the CAG Report No. 32/2014 in to satisfy us of the overwhelming need and appropriateness of the decision to place a ceiling limit as the best conceivable and practical measure at rectifying the targeted mischief. A perusal of the material on record reflects that the respondent-Institute’s assertion that there is a probable link between the number of tax audits undertaken and the quality thereof is supported by concerns and suggestions shared by experts and practitioners over a span of time extending over thirty years. In fact, the preceding sentiment is evidenced by both CBDT’s letter dated 19.01.1988 seeking views of the respondent-Institute on the imposition of a limit and the CAG’s Report presented to the Parliament on 19.12.2014 discussed above. [2024] 6 S.C.R. 843 Shaji Poulose v. Institute of Chartered Accountants of India & Others 19. Following the dicta of the Constitution Bench of this Court in Saghir Ahmad vs. State of U.P., (1954) 2 SCC 399 (“Saghir Ahmad”), the burden to establish that the instantiation of the specified number of tax audit assignments was within the purview of the exception laid down in Article 19(6) is on the respondent-Institute. We find that the respondent-Institute has placed ample material before this Court to establish that the legislation comes within the permissible limits of clause (6). But the factual matrix herein is dissimilar to Saghir Ahmad, wherein this Court had ‘absolutely no materials’ before it to say in which way the establishment of State monopoly in road transport service would be conducive to the general welfare of the public. 20. In this regard, we place reliance upon Sakhawant Ali vs. State of Orissa, (1954) 2 SCC 758 (“Sakhawant Ali”), wherein this Court was seized of a challenge to a disqualification from electoral candidature of legal practitioners who were employed on payment, on behalf of the municipality or to act against the municipality. This Court emphasised upon the salutary object of the disqualification, i.e., the purity of public life, which would invariably be thwarted if there arose a situation where there was a conflict between interest and duty. This Court took note of the possibility of a conflict of interest and duty of a municipal councillor employed as a paid legal practitioner and was alive to the possibility that such a councillor may misuse his position to obtain municipal briefs, get unreasonable fees sanctioned or compromise the interests of the municipality while acting on behalf of private parties.