She brought it to the notice of the Court and we requested the Counsel appearing for the petitioner to come back, which he did. Learned Counsel for the petitioner made a threatening remark to her, saying that now she be prepared for the consequences. Shri Dipak Bhattacharya (Advocate), who was also present in the Court duly confirmed that he overheard this remark being made to the lady Advocate appearing for the respondents. We find this attitude of the Counsel appearing for the petitioner to be undesirable and needs to be deprecated and dealt with in accordance with law. It is unfair for any Counsel to give any threats to the Counsel appearing on the other side, as all of them appear as officers of the Court and assist the Court or their respective clients. However, before we direct any further action or issue notice for contempt, learned Counsel for the petitioner made a request and the case is directed to be listed for tomorrow. List on 18.8.2006.” 4. On 18.08.2006, when the matter was called out, the appellant failed to appear. Therefore, the Bench adjourned the matter to 21.08.2006. In fact, a counsel standing in the courtroom at that time undertook to personally inform the appellant about the next date of hearing. Surprisingly, the appellant had filed an application seeking transfer of the said writ petition to a different bench of the High Court, even though he failed to physically appear in the matter. Later in the day, a counsel appearing on behalf the appellant made a request for an [2024] 1 S.C.R. 1155 Gulshan Bajwa v. Registrar, High Court of Delhi & Anr. adjournment on the ground that the appellant was unwell. That said, the standing counsel for the Union of India, who was also present in the same court at that time, informed the Bench that the appellant was seen in the court premises earlier in the day. Nonetheless, in the interest of justice, the Bench adjourned the matter to 21.08.2006. 5. Thereafter, even on 21.08.2006, the appellant failed to appear. However, he had filed applications in the same matter making reckless and unsubstantiated allegations against the judges of the High Court. Clearly, by failing to appear and filing baseless allegations, the appellant had disobeyed the s of the Court. In fact, it also came to the knowledge of the High Court that the appellant herein has frequently filed transfer applications on behalf of his clients, without their knowledge. Therefore, by its dated 21.08.2006, a Division Bench of the High Court issued a notice to the appellant asking him to show cause as to why proceedings under the Act should not be initiated against him (Suo Motu Contempt Case No. 16 of 2006). 6. Around the same time, another Division Bench of the Court had also initiated suo motu contempt action against the appellant after noticing that he had filed an application in a writ petition, where he had made certain improper allegations against the Judges. Even in this contempt proceeding as well as the writ petition, the appellant failed to appear.