9. Placing reliance on the decision of this Court in Adcon Electronics Pvt. Ltd. v. Daulat and Another reported in (2001) 7 SCC 698, the Single Judge drew a distinction between a suit relating to specific performance of a contract for sale of immovable property simpliciter and a suit where additional claim for delivery is prayed for, and observed that a suit of the former category, that is, one for the enforcement of contract of sale and for execution of a conveyance, cannot be said to be a suit for determination of title to land or that the decree in it would operate on the land. The Court further observed that Section 22 of the Specific Relief Act has been specifically held to be an enabling provision by the decision in Adcon Electronics (supra) and thus the observations made by this Court in Babu Lal v. Hazari Lal Kishori Lal and Others reported in (1982) 3 SCR 94 would not be applicable to the facts of the present case as the issue has been directly answered by the decision in Adcon Electronics (supra). The relevant observations made by the Single Judge are extracted hereinbelow: “28. I need not, therefore, deal with the various decisions of this Court and other High Courts relied upon by Counsel for the defendants for the reason that the decision of the Supreme Court in Adcon Electronic’s case (supra) holds the field. The said decision has taken into account Section 22 1294 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of the Specific Relief Act. Decision categorically holds that a suit seeking specific performance of an agreement to sell simplicitor even if it relates to immovable property is not a suit in which the relief claimed relates to title or to land. The suit is for enforcement of terms of contract. Decision categorically holds that it is at the option of the plaintiff to seek delivery of possession. Decision categorically holds that unless possession of immovable property is specifically prayed for, suit could be instituted within the local limits of the Court having jurisdiction where the defendant resides, carries on business or personally works for gain. 29.Section 55 of the Transfer of Property Act is also an enabling provision and need not be enforced by the buyer. 30. In respect of the submission made by Counsel for the defendants Pertaining to the provisions of 2 Rule 2 of the Code of Civil Procedure, the point that the rule is directed to secure the exhaustion of the reliefs in respect of a cause of action and not to the inclusion in one and the same action, different causes of action, even though they arise from the same transaction (see decision of Privy Counsel reported as 26 IC 228, Payana v. Panna Lal) has been lost sight of by Counsel. 31. 2 Rule 2 is aimed against multiplicity of the suits in respect of same cause of action. Complete identity of cause of action and various reliefs flowing therefrom has not to be confused with various causes of action which may accrue under same transaction.