While engaging in such an expansive interpretation of the constitutional provisions, the Court described the Constitution as a “living instrument” that was resilient enough to ensure its continued relevance. The Court opined that the Constitution is a “sacred living document susceptible to appropriate interpretation of its provisions based on changing needs.” This Court referred to a “brooding spirit” with several qualities which inspired the Constituent Assembly and was given the corporeal form of the Constitution of India. 4.9 The living tree metaphor is also evident in several other decisions of this Court, such as, National Legal Services Authority vs. Union of India, (2014) 5 SCC 438; Joseph Shine vs. Union of India, (2019) 3 SCC 39; Navtej Johar vs. Union of India, (2018) 10 SCC 1; Anuj Garg vs. Hotel Association of India, AIR 2008 SC 63; Secretary, Ministry of Defence vs. Babita Punia, (2020) 7 SCC 469; Lt. Colonol Nitisha & Others vs. Union of India, AIR 2021 SC 1797. 4.10 Thus, we see that throughout the years, this Court has applied the living metaphor in the adjudication of a wide spectrum of controversies. While toying with different variants of the living [2024] 11 S.C.R. 193 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. Constitution metaphor, the Court has consistently emphasised on two of the principal elements of the living tree doctrine- the original understanding in the roots of the constitutional tree; and the possibility of growth and development, within its natural limits. 4.11 Such is the balance between the two contesting theories of originalism and the living Constitution. Dr. Jack M. Balkin, a Professor at Yale Law School, contends that the basic idea of constitutional interpretation is that interpreters must be faithful to the original meaning of the constitutional text and to the principles that underlie the text. But, he suggests, fidelity to the original meaning does not require fidelity to the original expected application. Therefore, original expected application is merely evidence of how to apply text and principle. He explains, “Each generation is charged with the obligation to flesh out and implement text and principle in their own time. They do this through building political institutions, passing legislation, and creating precedents, both judicial and nonjudicial. Thus, the method of text and principle is a version of framework originalism and it views living constitutionalism as a process of permissible constitutional construction.” 4.12 I find that this idea is most useful in interpreting Directive Principles of State Policy. Evidently, with great foresight, theframers of our Constitution did not limit either themselves or succeeding generations to any one economic school of thought. In fact, the speeches of Dr. Ambedkar in the Constituent Assembly evince that while the economic philosophy adopted by the Government may swiftly pass from one generation to another, the ideal of economic democracy finds firm place within our Constitution. There is no strict economic diktat in the Constitution for the Parliament to follow; however, the Directive Principles act as the principles or goals that the Parliament must regard on its path to progress.