1 of 2018, the land had to be acquired to safeguard the lives and property of the original landowners. 31. However, we take notice of the fact that the subject land was not covered under the list of assets transferred to the Appellant under the Scheme and remains in the ownership of the JAL till date. While we agree that the acquisition of the subject land was done for the purposes of the cement project, we cannot accept the contention of JAL that the liabilities arising out of the said land should be fastened upon the Appellant without any such liabilities being covered by the Scheme, not even on the strength of the argument that the subject land was integral to the cement project. 32. We may only say that the issue regarding the ownership of the subject land may be decided between the parties i.e., the Appellant and JAL amongst themselves. In our considered view, disputes regarding the ownership of the subject land, if any cannot be an impediment to the legitimate rights of the original landowners to receive compensation. Therefore, the contention of JAL that the Appellant should pay the amount as determined under the Supplementary Award because the subject land was integral to the cement project is rejected. 464 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports B. Return of acquired land under the 2013 Act 33. It is the case of JAL that the substantial delay in acquisition of the subject land has frustrated its purpose, and it could not make any use of the land. It was submitted that if the Appellant does not require the said land, then it should be returned to the original landowners and the amount of Rs. 10,77,53,842/- paid under the Award of 2018 should be refunded to JAL. 34. The return of acquired land is governed by Section 101 of the 2013 Act which is reproduced below: “101. Return of unutilised land.– When any land acquired under this Act remains unutilised for a period of five years from the date of taking over the possession, the same shall be returned to the original owner or owners or their legal heirs, as the case may be, or to the Land Bank of the appropriate Government by reversion in the manner as may be prescribed by the appropriate Government. Explanation.—For the purpose of this section, “Land Bank” means a governmental entity that focuses on the conversion of Government owned vacant, abandoned, unutilised acquired lands and tax-delinquent properties into productive use.” [Emphasis Supplied] 35. The necessary conditions for the application of Section 101 are: (1) the land should be unutilized; and (2) the period it remains not in use should be at least five years from the date of taking of possession. 36. We do not find any merit in the contention of JAL that the land be returned to the original landowners. While we agree that a period of five years has elapsed from the date of taking of possession by JAL, the first condition that the land should remain unutilized is not fulfilled.