As the writ petitioners are similarly situated to the appellants in Vikas Pratap Singh case [Vikas Pratap Singh v. State of Chhattisgarh, (2013) 14 SCC 494 : (2013) 3 SCC (L&S) 100], we are in agreement with the High Court that the writ petitioners are entitled to the relief granted. Moreover, though on pain of contempt, the writ petitioners have been reinstated and are working at present.” (emphasis supplied) 34 [2024] 1 S.C.R. DIGITAL SUPREME COURT REPORTS 26. To the same effect is the ratio of the of this Court in Dr. M.S. Mudhol and Another vs. S.D. Halegkar and Others, (1993) 3 SCC 591 wherein, in para 6, it was observed as under:- “6. Since we find that it was the default on the part of the 2nd respondent, Director of Education in illegally approving the appointment of the first respondent in 1981 although he did not have the requisite academic qualifications as a result of which the 1st respondent has continued to hold the said post for the last 12 years now, it would be inadvisable to disturb him from the said post at this late stage particularly when he was not at fault when his selection was made. There is nothing on record to show that he had at that time projected his qualifications other than what he possessed. If, therefore, in spite of placing all his cards before the selection committee, the selection committee for some reason or the other had thought it fit to choose him for the post and the 2nd respondent had chosen to acquiesce in the appointment, it would be inequitous to make him suffer for the same now. Illegality, if any, was committed by the selection committee and the 2nd respondent. They are alone to be blamed for the same.” 27. In Rajesh Kumar and Others vs. State of Bihar and Others, (2013) 4 SCC 690, this Court finding the appellants to be innocent parties ruled that even if in the re-evaluation the appellants do not make the grade, still the appellants appointments ought to be protected. Para 21 & 22.3 are extracted herein below:- “21. There is considerable merit in the submission of Mr Rao. It goes without saying that the appellants were innocent parties who have not, in any manner, contributed to the preparation of the erroneous key or the distorted result. There is no mention of any fraud or malpractice against the appellants who have served the State for nearly seven years now. In the circumstances, while inter se merit position may be relevant for the appellants, the ouster of the latter need not be an inevitable and inexorable consequence of such a re-evaluation. The re-evaluation process may additionally benefit those who have lost the hope of an appointment on the basis of a wrong key [2024] 1 S.C.R. 35 RADHEY SHYAM YADAV & ANR. ETC. v. STATE OF U.P. & ORS. applied for evaluating the answer scripts. Such of those candidates as may be ultimately found to be entitled to issue of appointment letters on the basis of their merit shall benefit by such re-evaluation and shall pick up their appointments on that basis according to their inter se position on the merit list.