A single judge of the High Court vide dated 13.04.1990 rejected the writ petition holding that no fault could be found with the final notification which was published in 1977 and having regard to the provisions of Section 60A(4) introduced by the Amending Act, 1987, the proceedings cannot be interfered with merely on the ground that compensation was not paid to the respondents. However, liberty was reserved in favour of the respondents to collect the amount towards compensation if they had not been paid yet. 38. The Land Acquisition Officer, Urban Improvement Trust, Alwar wrote a letter dated 11.08.1999 to Vinod Kumar Goyal and other respondents to collect the compensation amount otherwise, the same would be deposited in court through reference. After the passed by the single judge, the Moongaska land was mutated in favour of the appellant Trust. Impugned of the High Court 39. A division bench of the High Court allowed the appeal filed by the respondents herein on three grounds. First,there was no substantial delay in filing of the writ petitions by the landowners. [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1007 Urban Improvement Trust v. Smt. Vidhya Devi and Ors. 40. Secondly, it was held that Section 52(2) mandatorily required that individual notices be served on the landowners so that each owner would be in a position to lodge objections against the intended acquisition. It was also held that issue of individual notices under Section 52(2) is condition precedent to the issuance of notification under Section 52(1). As the notices under Section 52(2) were not served properly in accordance with the provisions of the said section in connection with both the Nangli Kota lands and Moongaska land, the notification under Section 52(1) was liable to be quashed. 41. Thirdly, the appellant herein and the State Government had failed to determine the amount towards compensation in respect of the Moongaska land in accordance with Section 60A of RUI Act as introduced by the Amending Act, 1987. B. WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS OF THE APPELLANT 42. As regards the Nangli Kota lands, Ms. Archana Pathak Dave, the learned senior counsel for the appellant submitted as follows: a) Ms. Dave addressed herself mainly on two issues: (1) Whether the appellant fully complied with the mandatory requirements as laid in Section 52 of the RUI Act for the purpose of acquisition of the Nangli Kota lands and whether the acquisition proceedings initiated vide the notification dated 16.06.1977 could have been declared void? ; and (2) Whether the appellant was required to pay Rs. 90,000/- towards compensation for the acquisition of the Nangli Kota lands? b) As regards the first issue, the learned senior counsel submitted that the appellant issued a notification dated 01.07.1976 under Section 52(2) of the RUI Act to Ram Narain proposing to acquire the Nangli Kota lands. The said notice was also published in the official gazette. The learned senior counsel fairly conceded that on 01.07.1976, Ram Narain was dead and gone. c) In response to the said notice, the legal heirs of Ram Narain that is, his seven sons appeared before the Officer on Special Duty (OSD) and sought time to place on record the proof of their ownership of the Nangli Kota lands.