The above formula shows that royalty is calculated on the basis of the quantity of minerals extracted or removed.398 The yield from mineral bearing land is nothing but the quantity of mineral produced. Royalty is per se not the yield from a mineral bearing land, but the yield (mineral produced) is the important factor in determination of the rate of royalty. Moreover, royalty can be considered as an income if it is paid to a private landowner.399 In case the minerals are vested in the State, the royalty is paid to the State Government, and hence assumes the form of non-tax revenues. Therefore, royalty is relatable to the yield of the mineral-bearing land as well as the income in case the minerals vest in a private person. To this extent, we clarify the reasoning of this Court in Goodricke (supra). 331. In India Cement (supra), it was held that royalty cannot be a measure for tax on land because it is indirectly connected with land.400 In our opinion, this holding is not correct in view of the fact that royalty is directly relatable to the yield of the mineral bearing land. Royalty is calculated on the basis of the output of the mineral produced. Since the yield of the land is directly connected to the land, a rate fixed on the basis of the yield cannot be said to be indirectly connected to the land. Similarly, Orissa Cement (supra) held that since royalty is not an income derived from land, it cannot be used to measure the tax on land.401 Royalty may not be an income in all aspects, but it is directly relatable to the yield of the land. The yield can be adopted as the basis for levy of tax on land. The decision in Orissa Cement (supra) has followed a narrow approach to the concept of royalty. Therefore, we hold that the yield of a mineral bearing land, either in terms of the quantity of mineral produced, or in terms of the rates of 398 Indian Bureau of Mines, ‘Mineral Royalties’ (2011) 4. 399 H M Seervai, Constitutional Law of India, Volume 3 (4th edn.) 2468. 400 India Cement (supra) [23] 401 Orissa Cement (supra) [30] 1742 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports royalty, can be used as a measure to tax the mineral bearing land under Entry 49 of List II. 332. The next submission of the respondents is that a tax measured on the basis of the minerals produced or mineral value is covered by Entry 50 of List II and not under Entry 49 of List II. It is a settled principle of law that Entry 49 of List II contemplates a levy of tax on lands and buildings as units. Once the legislature classifies a particular category of land as a separate unit for the purposes of the levy of tax on land, the yield comprised in such unit can validly constitute the basis for the levy and assessment.402 Resultantly, if the State legislature has classified mineral bearing land as a separate unit for the purposes of levy of tax on land, the minerals produced or any other measure directly connected to the minerals produced can be used as a measure to quantify the tax.