Thus, based on functionality test it can be said that tower is a movable property, as also held in Municipal Corporation of Greater Bombay (supra). [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1579 M/s Bharti Airtel Ltd. v. The Commissioner of Central Excise, Pune 11.9.8 These items are not embedded in the earth as in the case of walls or buildings so as to fall under clause (b) of the definition of “attached to the earth” as provided under Section 3 of the Transfer of Property of Act. Neither do these items fall under clause (c) of the definition of “attached to the earth” and nor are these intended to be for permanent beneficial enjoyment of the building or land to which these are attached. In this regard, it may be apposite herein to mention what was stated in Solid & Correct Engg. Works (supra) as follows:- “25. It is evident from the above that the expression “attached to the earth” has three distinct dimensions viz. (a) rooted in the earth as in the case of trees and shrubs, (b) imbedded in the earth as in the case of walls or buildings, or (c) attached to what is imbedded for the permanent beneficial enjoyment of that to which it is attached. Attachment of the plant in question with the help of nuts and bolts to a foundation not more than 1½ ft deep intended to provide stability to the working of the plant and prevent vibration/wobble free operation does not qualify for being described as attached to the earth under any one of the three clauses extracted above. That is because attachment of the plant to the foundation is not comparable or synonymous to trees and shrubs rooted in earth. It is also not synonymous to imbedding in earth of the plant as in the case of walls and buildings, for the obvious reason that a building imbedded in the earth is permanent and cannot be detached without demolition. Imbedding of a wall in the earth is also in no way comparable to attachment of a plant to a foundation meant only to provide stability to the plant especially because the attachment is not permanent and what is attached can be easily detached from the foundation. So also the attachment of the plant to the foundation at which it rests does not fall in the third category, for an attachment to fall in that category it must 1580 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports be for permanent beneficial enjoyment of that to which the plant is attached. It is nobody’s case that the attachment of the plant to the foundation is meant for permanent beneficial enjoyment of either the foundation or the land in which the same is imbedded.” 11.9.9 Applying the tests of permanency, intendment, functionality and marketability, it is quite clearly evident that these items are not immovable but movable within the meaning of Section 3 of the Transfer of Property Act, read with Section 3 (36) of the General Clause Act.