The final decree is not a decree in execution of preliminary decree but decree in a suit. It is the final decree which is to be enforced. 50. The Privy Council in Guran Ditta L. v. T.R. Ditta reported in AIR 1935 PC 12 observed that a final decree neither relates to any substantive rights of the parties nor decides or declares title to the property or shares of the parties to the partition suit and till the final decree is passed, there is no executable decree as envisaged by XX Rule 18 of CPC. This Court in Muthangi Ayyana v. Muthangi Jaggarao & Ors. reported in (1977) 1 SCC 241 held that a final decree cannot go behind, amend or alter the preliminary decree. 1936 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 51. In the aforesaid context, we looked into one very lucid decision of the High Court of Karnataka in the case of Ramagouda Rudregouda Patil v. Lagmavva reported in 1984 SCC Online Kar 192 explaining the true purport and scope of Section 54 of the CPC read with XX Rule 18 of the CPC. We may quote the relevant observations: “7. It is now a well settled principle of law that in the case of the execution of the decrees pertaining to partition and separate possession of agricultural lands assessed to Revenue, the Civil Court only declares the shares of the parties and the authority concerned has to effect partition or division by metes and bounds, as envisaged by Section 54 of C.P.C. Collector is the authority concerned to effect partition. Once the papers were sent to the collector, the Civil Court has no control over the proceedings taken by the Collector. The Civil Court cannot direct the Collector to effect partition in a particular manner after the papers were sent to him. Therefore, Section 54 C.P.C. makes it absolutely clear that the execution is not at all contemplated in the case of decrees for partition and division of agricultural lands. What the Civil Court has to do is to transmit the papers to the Collector for actual partition and possession. Therefore, all Execution Petitions are to be filed in the Civil Courts requesting the Court to transmit the papers to the Collector for partition and possession of agricultural lands. They are not, in any sense of the term, execution petitions. They are only in the form of a request to the Court to do its duty as enjoined on it by Section 54 C.P.C. Therefore, the lower Appellate Court rightly held that the execution petitions filed in such cases are only requests or reminders to the Court to send the papers to the Collector to effect the partition. xxx xxx xxx 10. Under Section 54 and 20 Rule 18 C.P.C. the only duty of the Collector, now called as the Deputy Commissioner, is to effect partition or division by metes and bounds in accordance with law if any for the time being in force, relating to partition or separate possession of shares of such estate.