In the absence of the person concerned as a party in his/her individual capacity it will neither be fair nor proper to record a finding that malice in fact had vitiated the action taken by the authority concerned……..” 10. In view of the foregoing enunciation of law by judicial decisions of this Court, it is clear that in absence of (i) pleadings regarding malafide, (ii) non-joining the person against whom allegation are made, (iii) violation of any statutory provision (iv) the allegation of the transfer being detrimental to the employee who is holding a transferrable post, judicial interference is not warranted. In the sequel of the said settled norms, the scope of judicial review is not permissible by [2024] 3 S.C.R. 415 Sri Pubi Lombi v. The State of Arunachal Pradesh & Ors. the Courts in exercising of the jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution of India. 11. On examining the facts of the present case, it is apparent that respondent No. 5 herein was transferred from the Government Higher Secondary School (GHSS) Kanubari, Longding district to Leparada as Deputy Director of School Education (DDSE) vide dated 15.11.2022 and was directed to join in the last part of April, 2023. The UO Note dated 28.02.2023 has been written by the MLA specifying the administrative exigency and public interest in posting the appellant on the post of DDSE, Leparada. The said UO Note has been examined and competent authority has exercised its discretion in favour of the appellant, and the respondent No. 5 herein has been retained on the same post in the same district in same status which he was holding prior to of transfer dated 15.11.2022 un-affecting his salary. Besides, it is also averred by the State that the modified dated 20.04.2023 was passed prior to effective period during which respondent no. 5 was directed to join i.e., in the last part of April, 2023. 12. As per the counter affidavit filed by the State Government, even before us it is specifically averred that the of transfer dated 20.04.2023 modifying the previous dated 15.11.2022 has been issued in public interest after due application of mind and without any malafide intentions. As far as the stance of respondent no. 5 herein is concerned, the plea of malafide against transferring authority has not been agitated even before this Court or the High Court. Further, the impugned transfer is also not alleged to be violative of any prescribed statutory provision. 13. In view of the stand taken by the Government and in absence of plea of malafide and no averment regarding violation of statutory provision taken by the private respondent before the High Court, interference as made by the Division Bench setting aside the well- reasoned of the Single Judge is not justified merely on the unsubstantiated pretext that the proposed modification is arbitrary or without application of mind for the sole reason that it was mooted by the MLA. In our view the Division Bench has committed an error in setting aside the of the learned Single Judge.