This is an inculpatory fact. However, it is also the prosecution’s case that the said discovery and recovery is attributable to the disclosure statement (Exhibit P-35) provided by the co-accused, Nirbhay Singh (since deceased). Such discovery and recovery at the instance of an accused are governed by Sections 83 and 274 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872.5 3 Section 8 of the Evidence Act reads: “8. Motive, preparation and previous or subsequent conduct.— Any fact is relevant which shows or constitutes a motive or preparation for any fact in issue or relevant fact. The conduct of any party, or of any agent to any party, to any suit or proceeding, in reference to such suit or proceeding, or in reference to any fact in issue therein or relevant thereto, and the conduct of any person an offence against whom is the subject of any proceeding, is relevant, if such conduct influences or is influenced by any fact in issue or relevant fact, and whether it was previous or subsequent thereto.” 4 Section 27 of the Evidence Act reads: “27. How much of information received from accused may be proved.— Provided that, when any fact is deposed to as discovered in consequence of information received from a person accused of any offence, in the custody of a police officer, so much of such information, whether it amounts to a confession or not, as relates distinctly to the fact thereby discovered, may be proved.” 5 For short, “Evidence Act”. 614 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 12. This Court, in Perumal Raja v. State, Represented By Inspector of Police,6 has referred to Mohmed Inayatullah v. State of Maharashtra,7 which elucidated the conditions required to be satisfied under Section 27: “Section 27 of the Evidence Act is an exception to Sections 25 and 26 of the Evidence Act. It makes that part of the statement which distinctly leads to discovery of a fact in consequence of the information received from a person accused of an offence, to the extent it distinctly relates to the fact thereby discovered, admissible in evidence against the accused. The fact which is discovered as a consequence of the information given is admissible in evidence. Further, the fact discovered must lead to recovery of a physical object and only that information which distinctly relates to that discovery can be proved.” The word, “distinctly”, used in Section 27 relates to the discovered fact. Only that much which relates to the discovery of a physical object is admissible. The rest of the testimony is to be excluded. The facts proved by the prosecution, particularly the admissible portion of the statement of the accused, would give rise to two alternative hypotheses, namely, (i) that the accused had himself deposited the physical items that were recovered; or (ii) only the accused knew that the physical items were lying at that place. The second hypothesis is wholly compatible with the innocence of the accused, whereas the first would be a factor to show the involvement of the accused in the offence.