Therefore, the said issue may be examined and the civil appeal should be allowed. 32.8. Finally, learned senior counsel referred to the decision of this Court in M/s. Hyder Consulting (UK) Ltd. (supra) and submits that in that case this Court had clarified the expression ‘the arbitral tribunal may include in the sum, for which the award is made’, occurring in Section 31(7)(a) of the 1996 Act, holding that the sum may include the principal amount and the interest accrued thereon and, therefore, grant of interest on interest or compound interest is permissible under Section 31(7)(b) of the said Act. She asserts that M/s. Hyder Consulting (UK) Ltd. (supra) is not an authority for the proposition that where the arbitrator had exercised his jurisdiction not to grant compound interest, even then such compound interest ought to be granted or is mandated to be granted. On the contrary, M/s. Hyder Consulting (UK) Ltd. (supra) recognises that such interest may be contained in the ‘sum’ or may not be contained in the said ‘sum’. According to her, it would be a complete absurdity if M/s. Hyder Consulting (UK) Ltd. (supra) is interpreted to mean that where interest on interest has not been granted or interest is not contained in the sum, it should be superimposed on an 5 (2005) 7 SCC 791 [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1597 North Delhi Municipal Corporation v. M/s. S.A. Builders Ltd. existing award. Seen in the above backdrop, the direction of this Court to compute the interest amount, in accordance with the law laid down in M/s. Hyder Consulting (UK) Ltd. (supra), cannot be interpreted to mean that compound interest must be granted where it has not been granted in the first place. 32.9. She, therefore, submits that the impugned of the Division Bench of the High Court is required to be set aside and the entire controversy is required to be given a quietus. 33. Mr. C. Aryama Sundaram, learned senior counsel representing the respondent at the outset submits that the primary issue raised by the appellant in the present proceeding i.e. whether the Arbitrator had become functus officio and thus had no jurisdiction to issue the clarification dated 15.03.2005, was expressly raised by the appellant and decided in favour of the respondent by this Court on three earlier occasions. Firstly, the Division Bench of the High Court vide the dated 03.01.2005 had permitted the respondent to approach the Arbitral Tribunal for seeking clarification. In the special leave petition filed by the appellant before this Court assailing the aforesaid of the Division Bench, appellant had specifically challenged not only the power of the High Court to refer the matter to the learned Arbitrator for clarification but also the very jurisdiction of the learned Arbitrator to issue such clarification. The said SLP was dismissed by this Court vide the dated 09.07.2007. Secondly, the clarification dated 15.03.2005 of the learned Arbitrator was challenged by the appellant by filing objection in the pending execution proceeding. The challenge was made on the ground that the learned Arbitrator had become functus officio and thus had no authority to issue any clarification.