This assumes relevance in the context that the prosecution itself had put forth the case of escape from custody by Shama @ Kalya, but described it as a drama staged by the defence to create a belief that Shama @ Kalya was escaped from the custody. When the witness examined to prove the same turned hostile and the defence evidence suggesting probabilising such an escape was produced, it was incumbent on the part of the court(s) to consider the same, in accordance with law. In this context, it is to be noted that the very of the trial Court itself would reveal that what was produced by the first accused was certified copy of an in a summary trial whereunder a person by name Shama @ Kaloo s/o Nanu, shown to be a resident of Kalamana was convicted for travelling ticketless in a train between Gondia to Raipur. I have already noted earlier that PW-1 and PW-16 deposed that Shama @ Kalya wanted to dispose of property at Kalamana. The way in which it was appreciated by the trial Court, as extracted hereinbefore, would reveal that the said piece of evidence was brushed aside by the trial Court making its own suppositions and presumptions. There can be little doubt with respect to the position that a Court is not justified in deciding a case upon its own suspicions or suppositions after discarding the evidence adduced by the parties and that defence evidence is also to be appreciated in the same manner as it is to appreciate the prosecution evidence, but with the understanding that in the case of accused the standard of proof required is only preponderance of probabilities. 42. In the context of the reasoning of the High Court that the defence had failed to prove its specific plea of escape, it is only appropriate to consider the aforesaid factual and legal position. I have already noted that the prosecution has put forth a case that the accused had staged a drama to create evidence that Shama @ Kalya had escaped from police custody and to prove the same, prosecution got examined PWs, but he turned hostile and did not support the prosecution. Ignoring the evidence from the defence, which was discussed in detail though rejected by the Trial Court, the High Court held that the defence did not adduce any evidence, but had chosen 750 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports to be happy and satisfied with the device of cross-examination and further held that for the failure to prove the specific plea the accused have to suffer the consequence. Before considering evidence adduced by defence, elaborately discussed by the Trial Court, I will consider certain established principles of criminal law. Indisputably, it is an established principle of criminal law that it is the burden of the prosecution to establish the guilt of the accused. This Court in the decision in Paramjeet Singh v. State of Uttarakhand15 held in unambiguous terms that the burden of proof squarely rests upon the prosecution and further that the more serious is the crime, the stricter is the proof required.