Rule 10 reads as follows: “10. Procedure when party fails to present written statement called for by Court.— Where any party from whom a written statement is required under rule 1 or rule 9 fails to present the same within the time permitted or fixed by the Court, as the case may be, the Court shall pronounce against him, or make such in relation to the suit as it thinks fit and on the pronouncement of such a decree shall be drawn up.” 15. We have no hesitation to hold that Rule 10 is permissive in nature, enabling the trial court to exercise, in a given case, either of the two alternatives open to it. Notwithstanding the alternative of proceeding to pronounce a , the court still has an option not to pronounce and to make such in relation to the suit it considers fit. The verb ‘shall’ in Rule 10 [although substituted for the verb ‘may’ by the Amendment Act of 1976] does not elevate the first alternative to the status of a mandatory provision, so much so that in every case where a party from whom a written statement is invited fails to file it, the court must pronounce the against him. If that were the purport, the second alternative to which ‘shall’ equally applies would be rendered otiose. 16. At this stage, we consider it apposite to take a quick look at Balraj Taneja (supra) to examine the scope of Rule 10 of VIII. Therein, this Court ruled that a court is not supposed to pass a mechanical invoking Rule 10 of VIII, CPC merely on the basis of the plaint, upon the failure of a defendant to file a written statement. The relevant paragraphs of the are reproduced below for convenience: “29. As pointed out earlier, the court has not to act blindly upon the admission of a fact made by the defendant in his written statement nor should the court proceed to pass blindly merely because a written statement has [2024] 1 S.C.R. 531 Asma Lateef & Anr. v. Shabbir Ahmad & Ors. not been filed by the defendant traversing the facts set out by the plaintiff in the plaint filed in the court. In a case, specially where a written statement has not been filed by the defendant, the court should be a little cautious in proceeding under 8 Rule 10 CPC. Before passing the against the defendant it must see to it that even if the facts set out in the plaint are treated to have been admitted, a could possibly be passed in favour of the plaintiff without requiring him to prove any fact mentioned in the plaint. It is a matter of the court’s satisfaction and, therefore, only on being satisfied that there is no fact which need be proved on account of deemed admission, the court can conveniently pass a against the defendant who has not filed the written statement. But if the plaint itself indicates that there are disputed questions of fact involved in the case regarding which two different versions are set out in the plaint itself, it would not be safe for the court to pass a without requiring the plaintiff to prove the facts so as to settle the factual controversy.