Further, if land were all one piece barriers, such as fences, hedges or ditches could be erected to obtain privacy and prevent trespassing, thieving and gleening. The control of irrigation and drainage water would be easier; control of pests, insects and disease would also be less difficult. 16.1. Thus, as per the statement of objects and reasons, after the enforcement of the U.P. Zamindari Abolition and Land Reforms Act, 1950, there arose the need for consolidation of holdings in the State. It was felt that the advantages of having compact blocks of all the lands farmed by one family was too well known. 1870 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Boundary lines would be reduced in number thereby not only saving the lands but also reducing boundary disputes. This would also lead to larger fields with attendant advantages. It could be barricaded properly to prevent trespassing and ensure proper irrigation and pest control. 17. Raison d’etre of the Act was examined by this Court in Attar Singh Vs. State of U.P..1 This Court observed that the object of the 1953 Act is to allot a compact area in lieu of scattered plots to tenure-holders so that large scale cultivation would be possible with all its attendant advantages thus leading to reduction of boundary lines. In the process lot of land would be saved resulting in lesser number of boundary disputes. While reducing the movement of the farmers from one plot to another, consolidation would enure to the benefit of the farmers in erecting fences etc. around a compact area to prevent trespassing and thieving. It would also become easier to control irrigation and drainage besides reducing the number of disputes over water. That apart, pest control etc. would become easier as the farmers would have compact areas for cultivation. This Court observed that such advantages resulting from consolidation of holdings are intended to encourage the development of agriculture leading to more production of foodgrains, so essential for the community. 18. Making a comparison of the 1953 Act with the U.P. Zamindari Abolition and Land Reforms Act, 1950 (U.P. Act No. 1 of 1951), a Single Bench of the Allahabad High Court in Mool Chandra Vs. Deputy Director of Consolidation,2 observed that U.P. Act No. 1 of 1951 was enacted to provide for abolition of the zamindari system involving intermediaries between the tillers of the soil and the State and for acquisition of the right, title and interest over the land by the tillers and also to reform the law relating to land tenure consequent upon such abolition and acquisition. On the other hand, the primary object of the 1953 Act is consolidation of agricultural holdings for the development of agriculture. It was in this backdrop that Allahabad High Court observed that the 1953 Act has only a limited role to play and that is only with regard to consolidation of agricultural holdings to facilitate better quality of agriculture. Thus, the 1953 Act does not 1 [1959] Supp. 1 SCR 928 : AIR 1959 SC 564 2 2007 SCC OnLine All 2196 [2024] 10 S.C.R.