173 Krishnadatt Awasthy v. State of Madhya Pradesh & Ors. should manifestly and undoubtedly be seen to be done’ is being urged as a warrant for quashing convictions or invalidating s upon quite unsubstantial grounds and, indeed, in some cases upon the flimsiest pretexts of bias. Whilst endorsing and fully maintaining the integrity of the principle reasserted by Lord Hewart, this Court feels that the continued citation of it in cases to which it is not applicable may lead to the erroneous impression that it is more important that justice should appear to be done than that it should in fact be done.” 22. In the case of Metropolitan Properties Co. (FGC) Ltd. Vs. Lannon, (1969) 1 QB 577, Lord Denning observed and held as thus: - “the principle evolved by Lord Hewart, CJ that ‘justice should not only be done, but manifestly and undoubtedly be seen to be done’. In considering whether there was ‘real likelihood’ of bias, Court does not look at the mind of the decision-maker himself. “The Court looks at the impression which would be given to other people. Even if, he was as impartial as could be, nevertheless, if right- minded persons would think that, in the circumstances, there was a ‘real likelihood’ of bias on his part, then he should not sit. And if he does sit, his decision cannot stand.” “There must be circumstances from which a reasonable man would think it likely or probable that the justice, or chairman, as the case may be, would, or did, favour one side at the expense of the other. The Court will not enquire whether he did, in fact, favour one side unfairly. Suffice it that reasonable people might think that he did.” The said test was explained in the case of Hannam Vs. Bradford Corporation, (1970) 2 All ER 690 as thus: - “If a reasonable person who has no knowledge of the matter beyond knowledge of the relationship which subsists between some members of the tribunal and one of the parties would think that there might well be bias and there is in his opinion a real likelihood of bias. Of course, someone else with inside knowledge of the characters of the members in question might say “Although things don’t look very well, in fact there is no real likelihood of bias.” 174 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports That, however, would be beside the point, because the question is not whether the tribunal will in fact be biased, but whether a reasonable man with no inside knowledge might well think that it might be biased.” 23. In another English R Vs. Gough, 1993 AC 646, the question came before the House of Lords which used the expression ‘real danger’ of bias while applying the test of reasonable likelihood of bias. The Court emphasised the term “possibility of bias” rather than “probability of bias” and held as under: - “… In my opinion, if, in the circumstances of the case (as ascertained by the court), it appears that there was a real likelihood, in the sense of a real possibility, of bias on the part of a justice or other member of an inferior tribunal, justice requires that the decision should not be allowed to stand.