Consequently, it was observed that it was not necessary to seek sanction under Section 197 of the CrPC. It was observed that the object and purpose underlying Section 197 of the CrPC is to afford protection to public servants against frivolous, vexatious or false prosecution for offences alleged to have been committed by them while acting or purporting to act in the discharge of their official duty. This Section is designed to facilitate an effective and unhampered performance of their official duty by public servants by providing for scrutiny into the allegations of commission of offences by them by their superior authorities and prior sanction for their prosecution as a condition precedent to the cognizance of the cases against them by the courts. The said provision therefore cannot be construed too narrowly or too widely. A too narrow and pedantic construction may render it otiose for it is no part of an official duty to commit an offence. This Court was of the view that it is not the “duty” which requires examination so much as the “act” because the official act can be performed both in the discharge of the official duty as well as in, dereliction of it. One must also guard against too wide a construction. Therefore, a line has to be drawn between the narrow inner circle of strict official duties and acts outside the scope of official duties. Thus, there must be a reasonable connection between the act and the discharge of the official duty; the act must bear such relation to the duty that the accused could lay a reasonable claim, but not a pretended or fanciful claim, that he did it in the course of the performance of his duty. Referring to Amrik Singh vs. State of Pepsu (1955) 1 SCR 1302 at 1307 (“Amrik Singh”), the test to be adopted was, if the act complained of is directly concerned with his official duties so that, if questioned, it could be claimed to have been done by virtue of the office, then sanction would be necessary; and that would be so, irrespective of whether it was, in fact, a proper discharge of his duties, because that would really be a matter of defence on the merits, which would have to be [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1621 Gurmeet Kaur v. Devender Gupta & Another investigated at the trial, and could not arise at the stage of the grant of sanction, which must precede the institution of the prosecution. It was further observed that the quality of the act that is important and if it falls within the scope and range of the official duties of the public servant concerned the protection contemplated by Section 197 of the CrPC will be attracted. On the facts of the aforesaid case, it was observed that sanction was unnecessary and therefore, the appeal was dismissed. We feel that the aforesaid case would not apply to the present case having regard to the facts that have been elucidated above. b) Sanction for prosecution of a police officer accused of causing grievous injuries and death in conducting raid and search and whether the police officer concerned while acting in purported discharge of official duty exceeded limits of his official capacity, were issues which were determined in Bakhshish Singh Brar vs. Gurmej Kaur (1987) 4 SCC 663 (“Bakhshish Singh Brar”).