This Court while dealing with the exercise of power under Article 136 to interfere with concurrent findings in Mekala Sivaiah v. State of A.P.,4 expounded: - “15. It is well settled by judicial pronouncement that Article 136 is worded in wide terms and powers conferred under the said Article are not hedged by any technical hurdles. This overriding and exceptional power is, however, to be exercised sparingly and only in furtherance of cause of justice. Thus, when the under appeal has resulted in grave miscarriage of justice by some misapprehension or misreading of evidence or by ignoring material evidence then this Court is not only empowered but is well expected to interfere to promote the cause of justice. 16. It is not the practice of this Court to re-appreciate the evidence for the purpose of examining whether the findings of fact concurrently arrived at by the trial court 4 [2022] 6 SCR 989 : (2022) 8 SCC 253 432 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports and the High Court are correct or not. It is only in rare and exceptional cases where there is some manifest illegality or grave and serious miscarriage of justice on account of misreading or ignoring material evidence, that this Court would interfere with such finding of fact. … 18. In Bharwada Bhoginbhai Hirjibhai v. State of Gujarat [Bharwada Bhoginbhai Hirjibhai v. State of Gujarat, (1983) 3 SCC 217 : 1983 SCC (Cri) 728] , a two-Judge Bench of this Court held that this Court does not interfere with the concurrent findings of fact unless it is established: 18.1. That the finding is based on no evidence. 18.2. That the finding is perverse, it being such as no reasonable person could arrive at even if the evidence was taken at its face value. 18.3. The finding is based and built on inadmissible evidence which evidence, excluded from vision, would negate the prosecution case or substantially discredit or impair it. 18.4. Some vital piece of evidence which would tilt the balance in favour of the convict has been overlooked, disregarded or wrongly discarded.” (emphasis supplied) 15. In view of the above precedents, it is clear that this Court in exercise of its jurisdiction under Article 136 of the Constitution of India has the power to interfere, even if the Courts below have concurrently reached to a common conclusion with respect to a certain factual aspect, subject to the condition that such a conclusion is so perverse that no reasonable person could arrive at such a conclusion even if the evidence was taken at its face value. 16. Having considered the submissions advanced by learned counsel for the parties and after going through the impugned judgements passed by the High Court and the Tribunal as well as upon appreciating the material placed on record, we feel that the contentious finding whereby, the driver of the car, namely, Saiprasad Karande (deceased) [2024] 9 S.C.R. 433 Sushma v. Nitin Ganapati Rangole & Ors. was held jointly responsible for causing the accident along with the driver/owner of the offending truck leading to the claims of the passenger-Sushma & dependants of the deceased-passengers being deducted by 50% on the principle of contributory negligence is perverse on the face of the record.