To remedy this, authorities in tax administration were of the view that the Government could impose a ceiling on maximum number of audits an auditor could undertake. Vide letter dt. 19.01.1988, CBDT sought comments from the Secretary, Institute of Chartered Accountants of India on possibly restricting the number of tax audits a Chartered Accountant may be permitted to complete in a year. The contents of the CBDT letter dated 19.01.1988 are reproduced as under: “F.No.225/2/88-IT.ALL Government of India Ministry of Finance Department of Revenue (C.B.D.T.) New Delhi, Dated the 19th January, 1988. Shri R.L. Chopra, Secretary, Institute of Chartered Accountants of India, I.P. Estate, New Delhi. Sub: Fixation of number of tax audit per auditor. 794 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Dear Sir, As per the provisions of Section 44AB of the Income Tax Act, a class of assesses have to get their accounts audited by auditor. This audit has to be completed by a particular date as provided in Section 44AB of the Act. It has been represented that some of the auditors are completing around 50 audits in a month which result in the deterioration of the quality of audit. It has, therefore, been that the Government may fix the maximum number of audits which an auditor may be allowed to undertake under the provisions of Section 44AB of the Income Tax Act. In this connection reference has also been invited to Section 224 of the Companies Act whereby the number of company audits which a Chartered Accountant can do has been restricted to 20. 2. You are requested to kindly send your comments regarding the suggestion of restricting the number of audits under Section 44AB of the Income Tax Act which a Chartered Accountant may be permitted to complete. The number of audits as in the case of Section 224 of the Companies Act may also be indicated. I would request you to kindly forward the comments of the Institute at the earliest. Yours faithfully, Sd/- (M.G.C. Goyal) Officer on Special Duty (IT.ALL) Central Board of Direct Taxes.” 3.11 After consideration of the aforesaid letter, the Professional Development Committee of the respondent-Institute at its 90th Meeting held on 22.02.1988 recommended that every Chartered Accountant be permitted to conduct a maximum of twenty tax audits of non-corporate assessees every year in addition to entitlement of audits conducted under the Companies Act and other statutes. Considering the recommendation of the Professional Development Committee, on 28.04.1988– 30.04.1988, the Council of the respondent-Institute in its 133rd [2024] 6 S.C.R. 795 Shaji Poulose v. Institute of Chartered Accountants of India & Others Meeting decided to issue a Notification under Clause (ii) of Part II of the Second Schedule of the 1949 Act specifying that w.e.f. 01.04.1989 a member of the respondent-Institute in practice shall be deemed guilty of professional misconduct, if he accepts in a financial year more than thirty assignments of tax audit, be they in respect of corporate or non-corporate assessees. It was further decided that in case of a partnership firm, the number of tax audits shall be counted at the rate of thirty assignments per partner of thirty tax audit.