This, in our view, is a clear illegality in the of the Chancellor. The High Court ought to have, therefore, come to the rescue of the appellant and set right the illegality.” (emphasis supplied) 16. Dr. (Major) Meeta Sahai v. State of Bihar11 arose out of a case where the advertisement provided for the grant of marks for work experience after appointment on a regular/contract basis in the government hospitals. In the advertisement, it was also stated that only work experience in government hospitals of the Government of Bihar would be counted for this purpose. This Court, therefore, in interpreting the term “government hospital” held: “20. It is a settled canon of statutory interpretation that as a first step, the courts ought to interpret the text of the provision and construct it literally. Provisions in a statute must be read in their original grammatical meaning to give 10 [1998] Supp. 3 SCR 315 : (1999) 1 SCC 453. 11 [2019] 15 SCR 273 : (2019) 20 SCC 17. 964 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports its words a common textual meaning. However, this tool of interpretation can only be applied in cases where the text of the enactment is susceptible to only one meaning. [Nathi Devi v. Radha Devi Gupta, (2005) 2 SCC 271, para 13.] Nevertheless, in a situation where there is ambiguity in the meaning of the text, the courts must also give due regard to the consequences of the interpretation taken. … 23. …The phrase ‘government hospital’ therefore cannot be construed to exclude other non-private hospitals which are otherwise run exclusively with the aid and assistance of the Governments. Additionally given the difference in common usage wherein ‘government hospital’ refers to all non-private hospitals and not hospitals established by a particular Government, Rules 5 & 6(iii) would not be bound by Rule 2(a).” (emphasis supplied) 17. The first respondent has also referred us to the decision of Sachivalaya Dainik Vetan Bhogi Karamchari Union (supra). It would be appropriate to delve into the facts in that case before deciding the applicability of the law laid down therein in this present dispute. In that case, the members of the Workers Union were Class-IV employees. The employees filed a writ petition seeking regularisation of service. When the writ petition came up for hearing, it was represented that the dispute was settled out of Court and the terms were reduced to writing. Thereafter, the respondent issued an advertisement inviting tenders from contractors for the supply of Class IV employees. The Workers Union approached the High Court once again by way of a writ petition challenging the advertisement on the ground that those conditions were contrary to the settlement. During the pendency of this writ petition, another advertisement was invited and the respondent decided to provide some weightage in favour of the members of the Union by taking a decision to accord certain bonus marks in favour of those who had been working with the Department on a temporary basis. This decision of the respondent was once more challenged and the High Court ruled that the grant of these marks was arbitrary and directed that a lower weightage be given.