[Para 6] List of Acts The Indian Penal Code, 1860. List of Keywords Attempt to murder; Permissible term of imprisonment; Section 307 IPC; Hurt to victim; Maxim ‘culpae poena per esto’; Murder Simpliciter. Case Arising From CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No. 700 of 2024 From the and dated 05.07.2023 of the High Court of Punjab & Haryana at Chandigarh in CRAD No. 224 of 2020 Appearances for Parties M.C. Dhingra, Gaurav Dhingra, Advs. for the Appellants. Neeraj, A.A.G., Piyush Beriwal, Vedansh Anand, Rudra Paliwal, Ms. Damini Garg, Nikhil Kumar Chaubey, Dr. Monika Gusain, Advs. for the Respondent. 758 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports / of the Supreme Court C.T. Ravikumar, J. Leave granted 1. The captioned appeal is filed to challenge the concurrent conviction of the appellants under Section 307 read with Section 34 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (for short the ‘IPC’) and the consequently, imposed sentence on them to undergo rigorous imprisonment for 14 years each and to pay a fine of Rs.1,50,000/- (Rupees one lakh fifty thousand only) each and in default to undergo simple imprisonment for six months. 2. On 21.11.2023, after hearing the learned counsel for the appellants and looking into the overwhelming conclusive evidence supporting the conviction of the appellants under Section 307, IPC, with the aid of Section 34, IPC, this Court declined to entertain the Special Leave Petition to the extent it seeks to challenge the conviction, and issued limited notice confining to the challenge against the award of 14 years of rigorous imprisonment for the conviction thereof. The challenge is to the effect that in terms of the provisions under Section 307, IPC a term imprisonment beyond the period of ten years is impermissible though in case of hurt during attempt to murder would make the convict liable for imprisonment for life. Hence, the scope of this appeal is confined only to the question on sentence. 3. Heard learned counsel for the appellants and learned counsel appearing for the respondent-State. The rival contention raises a question of seminal importance as mentioned, viz., ‘whether a convict under Section 307, IPC, can be sentenced to undergo imprisonment, of either description, beyond the period of ten years. It is worthwhile to extract Section 307, IPC for a proper consideration of the aforesaid question. It reads thus:- “307. Attempt to murder.—Whoever does any act with such intention or knowledge, and under such circumstances that, if he by that act caused death, he would be guilty of murder, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to ten years, [2024] 7 S.C.R. 759 Amit Rana @ Koka & Anr. v. The State of Haryana and shall also be liable to fine; and if hurt is caused to any person by such act, the offender shall be liable either to [imprisonment for life], or to such punishment as is hereinbefore mentioned. Attempts by life-convicts.— [When any person offending under this section is under sentence of [imprisonment for life], he may, if hurt is caused, be punished with death.