Alternatively, the acquisition could be made under the extant Parliamentary or State laws dealing with acquisition; c. by operation of law, such as vesting of private resources in the State, which could be by virtue of statutes dealing with land reforms, land tenures, abolition of inams, village offices or any other law where by operation of law there would be vesting [2024] 11 S.C.R. 15 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. of private material resources in the State or in any other manner in accordance with law; d. by purchase of the material resource from private persons by the State, its agencies and instrumentalities in the manner known to law; and e. by the private owner of the material resource converting his “material resources” as a “material resource of the community” by donation, gift, creation of an endowment or a public trust or in any other manner known to law. (iv) In (a) to (d) above, the provision of Article 300A which is a constitutional right to property has to be complied with. (v) The “material resources of the community” have to be “distributed as best to subserve the common good”. Distribution could be in two ways: Firstly, by the State itself retaining the material resource for a public purpose and/or for public use; and Secondly, privately owned material resources when converted as “material resources of the community” can be distributed to eligible and deserving persons either by way of auction, grant, assignment, allocation, lease, sale or any other mode of transfer known to law either temporarily or permanently depending upon the mode adopted and unconditionally or with conditions depending upon:(a) nature of the resource and its inherent characteristics; (b) the impact of the resource on the well-being of the community; (c) the scarcity of the resource; (d) the consequences of such a resource being concentrated in the hands of the private owners; and (e) any such factors. (vi) The expression “common good” would, inter alia, mean that the distribution of the “ownership and control of material resources of the community” would not lead to concentration of the wealth and means of production in the hands of few which is a Directive Principle in clause (c) of Article 39. Thus, “distribution of material resources of the community” cannot violate the Directive Principle in clause (c) of Article 39 of the Constitution. [Para 22(III)] 4. The majority of this Court in Ranganatha Reddy and the in Abu Kavur Bai relate to nationalisation of contract carriages/State carriages which were upheld by this 16 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Court. Nationalisation of coking coal mines was upheld by this Court in Sanjeev Coke. In Bhim Singhji and Basantibai, certain provisions of the Urban Land Ceiling Act and the provisions of MHADA respectively were upheld on the touchstone of Article 39(b) of the Constitution. The nine-Judge Bench in Mafatlal referred to the s of this Court in Ranganatha Reddy, Abu Kavur Bai etc. in the context of the submission made before, i.e., the Indian Constitution envisages Justice – social, economic and political, to all citizens of India as enshrined in the preamble.