2. Assail in this civil appeal is to the and dated 26th September, 20112 passed by a learned Single Judge of the High Court of Karnataka at Bengaluru3 whereby His Lordship set aside the dated 19th October, 2010 passed by the Court of Additional Senior Judge-III, Mangalore4 and allowed the petition5 preferred by the respondent under Article 227 of the Constitution. 3. The facts, relevant for the disposal of the present appeal, are adverted to in brief hereunder: a. First Sale Agreement and Sale Deed: On 3rd October, 2003, a Sale Deed was executed regarding the suit property by one B. Ramesh Hegde in favour of his wife, who is the respondent here. This Sale Deed was executed on the strength of a General Power of Attorney6 dated 16th September, 2003, which was allegedly executed by one Praveen Shetty in favour of B. Ramesh Hegde in respect of the suit property, authorizing him with power to sell the suit property. b. Second Sale Agreement and Sale Deed: An agreement to sell the suit property was executed between the appellant and Praveen Shetty on 11th September, 2003. The appellant paid the 1 CPC, hereafter 2 impugned , hereafter 3 High Court, hereafter 4 Trial Court, hereafter 5 Writ Petition No. 11653 of 2011 (GM-CPC) 6 GPA, hereafter 320 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports consideration, and a Sale Deed was executed on 8th October, 2003 between the appellant and Praveen Shetty. c. Civil Suit by the appellant: The appellant instituted a civil suit7 against the respondent, B. Ramesh Hegde, and Praveen Shetty, seeking a declaration that the Sale Deed dated 3rd October, 2003 was null and void, and not binding on the appellant. d. Civil Suit by the respondent: Conversely, the respondent also instituted a civil suit8 against the appellant and Praveen Shetty, seeking a declaration that the Sale Deed dated 8th October, 2003 was null and void, and not binding on the respondent. e. Filing of GPA before the Trial Court: In the suit instituted by the respondent, witness action commenced. B. Ramesh Hegde, in whose favour the GPA was executed by the respondent, on 6th June, 2010 tendered the GPA in course of his examination- in-chief. The appellant’s counsel was engaged in another court; hence, he was unable to appear. The junior counsel did not object that the GPA was insufficiently stamped and, thus, inadmissible in evidence. The Trial Court, in the absence of objection, admitted the GPA in evidence and marked it as an exhibit whereafter the matter stood adjourned for cross-examination. f. Interlocutory Applications: On the next hearing date, 25th June, 2010 to be precise, the appellant filed two interlocutory applications9 in the suit filed by the respondent. In I.A. No. IX, the appellant sought a review of the dated 6th June, 2010, and in I.A. No. X, it was prayed that the GPA be impounded on the ground that it has been insufficiently stamped. The appellant contended that since the GPA was executed in favour of a third party with power to sell the property, article 41 of the Schedule to the Karnataka Stamp Act, 195710 was applicable, necessitating payment of requisite stamp duty based on the market value of the property.