In some democracies like the USA, members of some State judiciaries are elected as much as the members of the legislature and the heads of the State. The Judges, at whatever level they may be, represent the State and its authority unlike the administrative executive or the members of the other services. The members of the other services, therefore, cannot be placed on a par with the members of the judiciary, either constitutionally or functionally.” (emphasis supplied) 342 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports safeguards as may be prescribed by the State Government in consultation with their respective High Courts. 21. The Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, Government of India has issued an Office Memorandum12 dated 9 November 2017 providing for the payment of HBA. The recommendations of the SNJPC are based on the terms of this OM. However para 2(v) of the OM of the Union Government contains the following stipulation : “5. Outright purchase of a new ready-built house flat from Housing Boards, Development Authorities and other statutory or semi-Government bodies and from registered builders i.e., registered private builders, architects house building societies, etc. but not from private individuals.” 22. The above clause in the OM indicates that the HBA can be availed of for the outright purchase of a new or ready built house or flat from public bodies as well as from registered private builders, architects and societies but not from private individuals. The SNJPC, in the course of its recommendations has observed as follows : “6. The Commission having given its consideration to the same is of the view that the HBA advance to the Judicial Officers shall be in terms of HBA Rules, 2017. However, the expression “but not from private individual” in Clause 2(v) needs to be suitably modified. It is quite possible that an individual may have purchased the house from the institutions/societies mentioned in the O.M. and if he subsequently intends to sell it and a Judicial Officer is inclined to purchase it. In such an event, the HBA may not be available to the Judicial Officer if Clause 2(v) is strictly construed. Further, quite often the Government servants/ officials as well as Judicial Officers would prefer to have ready built house and mere fact that the seller is a private individual should not be a good reason to deny the HBA on the terms set out in the Rules. It may be noted from O.M. that from registered private builders, architects, house building societies etc. purchase by a private individual is allowed. There is no good reason for exclusion of purchase 12 “OM” [2024] 1 S.C.R. 343 All India Judges Association v. Union of India & Ors from private individuals. However, suitable safeguards to check any overestimation in the case of purchases from private individual can be evolved by the State Government in consultation with the High Court. “ 23. The SNJPC has basically adopted the same financials as incorporated in the OM of the Union Government with the modification that the purchase from a private individual may also be permitted.