Justice Venkatarama Reddi disagreed. In the opinion of the learned Judge, only certain information directed to be disclosed in ADR (supra) is “crucial” and “essential” to the right to information of the voter: “109. In my view, the points of disclosure spelt out by this Court in Assn. for Democratic Reforms case [Ed. : See full text at 2003 Current Central Legislation, Pt. Il, at p. 3] should serve as broad indicators or parameters in enacting the legislation for the purpose of securing the right to information about the candidate. The paradigms set by the Court, though pro tempore in nature as clarified supra, are entitled to due weight. If the legislature in utter disregard of the indicators enunciated by this Court proceeds to make a legislation providing only for a semblance or pittance of information or omits to provide for disclosure on certain essential points, the law would then fail to pass the muster of Article 19(1)(a). Though certain amount of deviation from the aspects of disclosure spelt out by this Court is not impermissible, a substantial departure cannot be countenanced. The legislative provision should be such as [2024] 2 S.C.R. 493 Association for Democratic Reforms & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. to promote the right to information to a reasonable extent, if not to the fullest extent on details of concern to the voters and citizens at large. While enacting the legislation, the legislature has to ensure that the fundamental right to know about the candidate is reasonably secured and information which is crucial, by any objective standards, is not denied. [...] The Court has to take a holistic view and adopt a balanced approach, keeping in view the twin principles that the citizens’ right to information to know about the personal details of a candidate is not an unlimited right and that at any rate, it has no fixed concept and the legislature has freedom to choose between two reasonable alternatives. [...] But, | reiterate that the shape of the legislation need not be solely controlled by the directives issued to the Election Commission to meet an ad hoc situation. As | said earlier, the right to information cannot be placed in straitjacket formulae and the perceptions regarding the extent and amplitude of this right are bound to vary.” 74. Justice Reddi held that Section 33-B was unconstitutional because: a. Parliament cannot impose a blanket ban on the disclosure of information other than the disclosure of information required by the provisions of RPA. The scope of the fundamental right to information may be expanded in the future to respond to future exigencies and necessities. The provision had the effect of emasculating the freedom of speech and expression of which the right to information is a facet; and b. The provision failed to give effect to an essential aspect of the fundamental right, namely the disclosure of assets and liabilities of the candidates. 75. Justice Reddi then proceeded to juxtapose the directions for disclosure issued by this Court in ADR (supra) with the scope of the provisions of the RPA mandating disclosure.