2. The case of the prosecution may be summarized as under: 3. The deceased, namely, Rajeev Jain was an employee of Hindustan Lever Limited. He was serving with the company past twenty-three years. On 03.11.2006, he committed suicide in his hotel room in Lucknow. The brother of the deceased, namely, Rajnish Jain lodged a First Information Report on 4 November 2006 in connection with the suicide committed by his brother. The First Information Report reads thus: “Late Shri Rajeev Jain who was working in Hindustan Lever Limited from past 23 years was having good work capacity therefore there was no spot on his career in any manner. He was very disciplined and dutiful person. Rajeev Jain who was my brother, his dead body was found in Hotel Ambar situated in Lucknow on 03.11.2006. After this sad incident applicant came to Lucknow and Bhabhi of applicant namely Smt. Sunita Devi Jain wife of Late Shri Rajeev Jain resident of B - 134 Bari Badi Gayabi Mu. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1487 Nipun Aneja and Others v. State of Uttar Pradesh Mehmurganj police Station Dhelupura District Varanasi also came. I want to present following facts before you on the basis of conversation held between me and my bhabhi and in between me and my elder brother from time to time. My elder brother Rajiv Jain was honest, disciplined employee of Hindustan Lever Limited and his retirement was fixed at the age of 60 Years. But from past one year he remained tensed because of the wrong behavior of some of his officers. With great efforts and on asking again and again he told that company is offering VRS Scheme and he is being compelled to accept the same. He also stated that it is being called VRS Scheme but it is made applicable as CRS (Compulsory Retirement Scheme). These officers would have certainly put pressure on him, its effect could be felt in the house also. In the month of September 2006 he was seen tensed and on asking told that company made VRS Scheme applicable and it will be continued till 30.09.06, but he is being compelled to accept the same forcefully and is being harassed. In this work the main role was of Shri Venkatesh RMM HLL Northern India, Shri Kalol Chakraborty RPM HLL Northern India, Shri Rupendra Yadav, RSM Northern India, Shri Nipun Aneja ASM Purvanchal, ZI Alvi, AE and Manish Sharma, AE and others. Because it is was introduced as a VRS scheme therefore my brother Late Rajiv Jain and his many other colleagues did not accept the same. After the month of September in the month of October 2006 the cruelty of some of the officers increased to more extent and when objected to, these persons threatened even through antisocial elements whereas my brother Late Rajiv Jain was very peaceful nature. Before coming to the programme organized by the company in Lucknow (Hotel Amber and Hotel Deep Palace) on 2nd and 3rd November 2006 he said that he will keep his defense strongly and will satisfy the officers and will take out permanent solution.