The said position also becomes amply evident from the language employed in XX Rule 18 read with Section 54 of the CPC. 28. When a suit for partition is instituted seeking declaration of share and separate possession by a co-sharer based on contesting claim of title, the Revenue authorities cannot proceed to decide such a question as per the scheme of the Regulation, 1886. However, the High Court under a serious misconception of law appears to have taken a contrary view in the matter by holding that it is the civil court which would have no jurisdiction to try the suit once an application for partition is entertained by the revenue authorities concerning the subject-matter of the suit. 29. Section 9 of the Civil Procedure Code, 1908 provides that whenever a question arises before the civil court whether its jurisdiction is excluded expressly or by necessary implication, the Court naturally feels inclined to consider whether the remedy afforded by an alternative provision prescribed by any special statute is sufficient or adequate. In cases where exclusion of the civil court’s jurisdiction is expressly provided for, the consideration as to the scheme of the statute in question and the adequacy or sufficiency of the remedy provided for by it may be relevant but cannot be decisive. Where exclusion is pleaded as a matter of necessary implication such consideration would be very important and in conceivable circumstances might become even decisive. 30. In Dhulabhai & Ors. v. State of M.P. & Anr. reported in (1968) 3 SCR 662, a Constitution Bench reviewed the entire case law on the question of maintainability of civil suit and laid down seven propositions. Propositions 1 and 2 are relevant, which read thus: “(1) Where the statute gives a finality to the s of the special tribunals the Civil Court’s jurisdiction must be held to be excluded if there is adequate remedy to do what the Civil Courts normally do in a suit. Such provision, however, does not exclude those cases where the provisions of the particular Act have not been complied with or the statutory [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1929 Abdul Rejak Laskar v. Mafizur Rahman & Ors. tribunal has not acted in conformity with the fundamental principles of judicial procedure. (2) Where there is an express bar of the jurisdiction of the Court, an examination of the scheme of the particular Act to find the adequacy or the sufficiency of the remedies provided may be relevant but is not decisive to sustain the jurisdiction of the civil court. Where there is no express exclusion the examination of the remedies and the scheme of the particular act to find out the intendment becomes necessary and the result of the inquiry may be decisive. In the latter case it is necessary to see if the statute creates a special right or a liability and provides for the determination of the right or liability and further lays down that all questions about the said right and liability shall be determined by the tribunals so constituted, and whether remedies normally associated with actions in Civil Courts are prescribed by the said statute or not.” 31.