In Bhagwan Sharma v. Bani Ghosh reported in AIR 1993 S.C. 398, this Court held:- “The High Court was certainly entitled to go into the question as to whether the findings of fact recorded by the 730 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports first appellate court which was the final court of fact were vitiated in the eye of law on account of non-consideration of admissible evidence of vital nature. But, after setting aside the findings of fact on that ground the Court had either to remand the matter to the first appellate Court for a rehearing of the first appeal and decision in accordance with law after taking into consideration the entire relevant evidence on the records, or in the alternative to decide the case finally in accordance with the provisions of Section 103(b). …… If in an appropriate case the High Court decides to follow the second course, it must hear the parties fully with reference to the entire evidence on the records relevant to the issue in question and this is possible if only a proper paper book is prepared for hearing of facts and notice is given to the parties. The grounds which may be available in support of a plea that the finding of fact by the court below is vitiated in law does not by itself lead to the further conclusion that a contrary finding has to be finally arrived at on the disputed issue. On a reappraisal of the entire evidence the ultimate conclusion may go in favour of either party and it cannot be prejudged.” 31. In the case of Hero Vinoth v. Seshammal reported in (2006) 5 SCC 545 this Court explained the concept in the following words: “It must be tested whether the question is of general public importance or whether it directly and substantially affects the rights of the parties. Or whether it is not finally decided, or not free from difficulty or calls for discussion of alternative views. If the question is settled by the highest court or the general principles to be applied in determining the question are well settled and there is a mere question of applying those principles or that the plea raised is palpably absurd the question would not be a substantial question of law.” 32. It is not that the High Courts are not well-versed with the principles governing Section 100 of the CPC. It is only the casual and callous approach on the part of the courts to apply the correct principles of law to the facts of the case that leads to passing of vulnerable s like the one on hand. [2024] 12 S.C.R. 731 Jaichand (Dead) Through Lrs. & Ors. v. Sahnulal & Anr. 33. In such circumstances, referred to above, we allow these appeals and set aside the and passed by the High Court. 34. As we are not granting the decree of specific performance in favour of the respondents herein (original plaintiffs), we direct the appellants herein i.e.