701 Puneet Sabharwal v. CBI adjudication on whether a person had committed a contravention of any provisions of the Act. It is in this context, that the Court went on to hold that where the allegation in an adjudication proceeding and proceeding for prosecution is identical and the exoneration in the former is on merits i.e. that there is no contravention of the provisions of the Act, then the trial of person concerned would be an abuse of process of the Court. 37. The decision in Radheyshyam (supra) was in a fact situation where the adjudicatory and criminal proceedings were being commenced by the same authority in exercise of powers under the same Act. Further, as this Court had noted, the civil adjudication proceedings related to an adjudication as to whether there was contravention of provisions of the Act and the Rules thereunder, which had an impact on the prosecution under the Act. However, in the present case, the appellants herein are being prosecuted under the provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act while they seek to rely on an exoneration under the Income Tax Act. The scope of adjudication in both of these proceedings are vastly different. The authority which conducted the income tax proceedings and the authority conducting the prosecution is completely different (CBI). The CBI was not and could not have been a party to the income tax proceeding. Given the said factual background, the decision in Radheyshyam (supra) is not applicable to the present case. 38. In Ashoo Surendranath (supra), the Petitioner therein was working as a DGM at the Small Industries Development Bank of India while there was diversion of funds from the Bank. The allegation against the Petitioner therein was that he had shared the RTGS details for the account to which the amount was diverted, to another official who was the purported kingpin of the crime. The competent authority of the Bank had refused to provide a sanction for prosecution of the Petitioner therein, which was supported by the report of the Central Vigilance Commission. The question therefore posed before the Court was whether the report of the Central Vigilance Commission should lead to discharge of the Petitioner therein. 39. In the above-mentioned factual background, this Court set-out the findings of the Central Vigilance Commission which had recorded that the e-mail sent by the Petitioner therein had clearly been sent to the principal accused for the purpose of verification since the latter was the officer for verification and that this showed that 702 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports there was no role that the Petitioner played in perpetrating the offence. Thereafter, relying upon the decision in Radheyshyam (supra), the Court concluded that since the allegation has been found to be “not sustainable at all”, the criminal prosecution could not be continued. 40. The decision in Ashoo Surendranath (supra) is not applicable to the present case because the decision in Ashoo Surendranath (supra) concerned a singular prosecution under the provisions of the Indian Penal Code where the sanctioning authority had, while denying sanction, recorded on merits that there was no evidence to support the prosecution case.