It has further to be noticed that the conditions for granting the bail, specified in clause (b) of sub-section (1) of Section 37 are in addition to the limitations provided under the Code of Criminal Procedure or any other law for the time being in force regulating the grant of bail. Liberal approach in the matter of bail under the Act is uncalled for.” 10. Similarly, recently a three-Judge Bench in NCB vs. Mohit Aggarwal,3 considering the earlier s on the parameters of bail available under Section 37 of the said Act held that: “The length of the period of his custody or the fact that the charge-sheet has been filed and the trial has commenced 2 (2001) 7 SCC 673 3 (2022) 18 SCC 374 [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1415 Narcotics Control Bureau v. Kashif are by themselves not considerations that can be treated as persuasive grounds for granting relief to the respondent under Section 37 of the NDPS Act.” 11. So far as the facts of the present case are concerned, it appears that a complaint case has been filed by the NCB against the respondent and six others before the Special Court, for the offences under Section 8, 22(c), 23(c) and 29 of the NDPS Act. The respondent- accused filed the bail application directly in the High Court without first approaching the Special Court, and curiously the High Court without considering as to whether the twin conditions mentioned in clause (b) sub-section (1) of Section 37 were fulfilled or not, concluded without any material on record that Section 37 was not attracted as there was non-compliance of Section 52A of the said Act within reasonable time. The Appellant - NCB having opposed the bail application, it was obligatory on the part of the High Court to record a satisfaction on the cumulative conditions namely, that there were reasonable grounds for believing that the Respondent - Accused was not guilty of the alleged offences and that he was not likely to commit any offence while on bail, as contemplated in Section 37(1) (b) of the said Act. The non-recording of such satisfaction which is mandatory in nature, has rendered the impugned of High Court fallacious and untenable. However, since the High Court has released the respondent-accused on bail solely on the ground that there was non-compliance of Section 52A of the said Act within reasonable time, let us consider the scope and ambit as also the repercussions of non-compliance or belated compliance of the said provision. 12. Section 52A of the Act reads as under: “52A. Disposal of seized narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances.—(1) The Central Government may, having regard to the hazardous nature, vulnerability to theft, substitution, constraint of proper storage space or any other relevant consideration, in respect of any narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances, controlled substances or conveyances, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify such narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances, controlled substances or conveyance or class of narcotic drugs, class of psychotropic substances, class of controlled substances 1416 [2024] 12 S.C.R.