The benefit of this is a reduced requirement for externally applied chemical pesticides, most of which are toxic and cause environmental damage. (ii) The other major usage of genetically modified crops has been for Ht crops, which is herbicide tolerance which makes the plant genetically engineered to be resistant to the herbicide. The use of Ht technology allows more extensive application of the herbicide leading to more complete elimination of weeds without killing the crop. (iii) GM technology comes with the promise of a number of benefits as well as associated risks with regard to health and environmental safety. (iv) The TEC was informed that it will not be possible to segregate genetically modified from non-genetically modified material during collection and storage in India, which would have serious implications when it comes to labelling of food. (v) Most countries such as China and those in Europe are approaching this issue with a fair amount of caution. Bt Crops (vi) The TEC has noted that in several cases that they examined, the characterization of the inserted DNA is limited and insufficient for comprehensively addressing the issues to regulatory approval. Overall the quality of information in several of the applications is far below what would be expected, and required for rigorous evaluation by a regulatory body and is unlikely to meet international regulatory guidelines. 1908 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (vii) The TEC examined the approved Bt Cotton and Bt Brinjal files relating to toxicity and what emerged from this examination is that in several cases, the methodology and results are not clearly reported. (viii) The TEC considered the process of Environmental Risk Assessments (hereinafter “ERA”) in India. It referred to the report of Prof. David Andow on ERA for Bt Brinjal wherein it was stated that the GEAC set too narrow a scope for the ERA and further, much of the effort towards the ERA was misdirected, which did not assess the actual adverse environmental consequences in India. The TEC concluded that ERAs are inadequately understood and addressed in Indian guidelines and regulatory system. The deficiencies are likely to be a consequence of the way in which ERA has been treated in the guidelines as a set of tests to be carried out instead of issues to be investigated and addressed. This kind of treatment has resulted in oversimplification, omission, and the real purpose of an ERA being missed. (ix) The precautionary principle as present in the CPB international guidelines would strongly point towards erring on the side of caution. The TEC highlighted the critical importance of having as complete and comprehensive information as possible on the biology of the species when considering release of GMOs. It was further pointed out that no GMO intended directly as food has been commercially introduced into its Centre of Origin, which was happening with the case of Bt Brinjal until ministerial intervention took place. (x) There are serious deficiencies in reporting of the data in the dossiers and more importantly in the way in which these have been examined and the conclusions accepted by the Regulatory Body.