Now turning to the issue at hand, the Petitioners’ apprehension concerns the meaning of the phrase ‘ordinarily resident in Assam’, as provided in Section 6A, and more particularly in clauses (2) and (3) thereof. 267. At the very threshold, we must note that the consequences of Section 6A are relevant for our determination of vagueness, as discussed in paragraph 263 of this judgement. Section 6A confers citizenship upon a sub-class of immigrants into Assam, and can therefore not be classified as criminal or penal. Instead, by legitimizing the stay of certain immigrants in India, Section 6A is more akin to a beneficial legislation. Given this, we are inclined to extend greater laxity when testing the term ‘ordinarily resident’ for vagueness. 179 K.A. Abbas v. Union of India (1970) 2 SCC 780 180 Shreya Singhal, supra note 174. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1109 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 268. First, while examining the expression ‘ordinarily resident’ from the viewpoint of the authority interpreting and applying the law, it could be observed that there is little vagueness in this term, given that this Court has already dealt with the same and extracted its import, particularly within the context of its usage in Section 6A. Khudiram Chakma (supra), dealt with the case of the Chakmas, who were a group of people who had migrated to Assam in 1964 and had shifted to Arunachal Pradesh thereafter, and were claiming citizenship under Section 6A. It was held that ‘ordinarily resident’ within Section 6A meant “ordinarily resident in Assam from the date of entry till the incorporation of Section 6-A, namely, 07.12.1985”. To further understand the nuanced import of ‘ordinarily resident’, this Court, after placing reliance on Smt. Shanno Devi v. Mangal Sain181 observed the same to mean that “it is not necessary that for every day of this period he should have resided in India. In the absence of the definition of the words ‘ordinarily resident’ in the Constitution it is reasonable to take the words to mean ‘resident during this period without any serious break.’” In Smt. Shanno Devi (supra), this Court was interpreting the term ‘ordinarily resident’ as appearing in Article 6 of the Constitution, which applies in the case of citizenship for persons who migrated to India from Pakistan. The term ‘ordinarily resident’ under Section 6A can thus hardly be said to be undefined or vague. 269. In addition, it must also be noted that the phrase ‘ordinarily resident’ is used in various Indian legislations, in contexts not too dissimilar from Section 6A. Besides the Indian Constitution, it finds mention in Sections 5 and 10 of the Citizenship Act, 1955, in the Representation of the People Act, 1950, in the Life Insurance Corporation Act, 1956, the Income Tax Act, 1961 and the Patents Act, 1970, among other statutes. Given such frequent usage, it would be difficult to term ‘ordinarily resident’ as vague. This Court has held the same in Premium Granites v. State of T.N.,182 where it was noted that the term ‘public interest’ had acquired the character of being a ‘definitive concept’ in Indian jurisprudence, owing to its widespread usage in the Constitution and other enactments, apart from its interpretation in several judicial pronouncements.