We again reiterate that efforts by MC Lenders and SRA should be coordinated for revival of the Corporate Debtor, so as to start its operations at an early date, which is in the interest of all stake holders as well as in the interest of Corporate Debtor. 20. In view of the aforesaid, we direct that MC Lenders shall not invoke the Performance Bank Guarantee in the facts of the present case as on date, and for invocation, if any, MC Lenders may take leave of the Adjudicating Authority. The IA Nos.2159-2160 is disposed of accordingly.” (emphasis supplied) 107. A careful reading of the aforesaid of the NCLAT reflects that the NCLAT had itself conceded to the position that the Appellants have a right to invoke the PBG in a situation where the SRA had failed to implement the Resolution Plan. This is again in line with the intention under Regulation 36B(4A). Therefore, even in light of the NCLAT’s own dated 26.05.2023, it does not follow that the PBG could have been adjusted by the SRA, mid-implementation, against its payment obligation. 108. The NCLAT in its dated 28.08.2023 dealt with the issue of adjustment of PBG against the first tranche payment in light of the 2126 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports offer made in the Lender’s Affidavit dated 16.08.2023 and made certain observations regarding Regulation 36B(4A) of the 2016 Regulations. The same are as follows: “26. When we look to the Regulation 36B (4A) it is clear that the provision provides that RFRP shall require Resolution Applicant to provide Performance Bank Guarantee within the time specified. Sub-Section 4A provides that if Resolution Applicant after approval fails to implement Performance Security it shall stand forfeited. Present is a case, where Performance Security has already been provided in compliance of sub- Regulation 4A and present is not a case that any power to forfeit the Performance Bank Guarantee to be exercised under sub-Regulation (4A). On Explanation I, attention of the Court was drawn by Learned Counsel for SRA, which indicates that the performance security which is contemplated, can be of such nature, value, duration and source as may be specified. Thus, Performance Security can be of a particular duration and when the Resolution Plan provides release of security at the time of first tranche of payment of Rs. 350 Crores, no exception can be taken to adjustment of the Performance Bank Guarantee. The request of SRA to adjust Performance Bank Guarantee of Rs. 150 Crores is thus according to Clause 6.4.4 of the Resolution Plan on which no exception can be taken. 27. Submission was made by Learned Sr. Counsel for the Appellant that performance Bank Guarantee has to be maintained till the completion of the plan. The summary of payment and security package as contained in the table indicate that there are large numbers of other securities which are to be continued. The securities in the last column which are mortgaged over three Dubai Properties are to be released on year 5 or on complete payment whichever is earlier.