Once the files pile up, it becomes increasingly difficult to remember the minute details of the case and the arguments advanced by the parties in support of their respective cases which leads to a shift to rely [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2237 Ratilal Jhaverbhai Parmar and Ors. v. State of Gujarat and Ors. on the written notes of arguments. However, if only written notes were enough, there would be no need of oral hearing in court. Additionally, drawing from our experience on the bench, we can safely say that inclination of learned Judges to reserve s is invariably the course adopted where cases involving complex and intricate points of law do call upon learned Judges to craft well-researched and well-reasoned s. That apart, there are cases arising from recent enactments involving questions of law not having arisen hitherto and consequently such questions have never been answered. Such categories of cases demand the high courts to lay down the law in clear terms for comprehension of all concerned. Obviously, this process is time consuming and the time limit for delivering s by the high courts as laid down in Anil Rai vs State of Bihar,6 at times, is breached. We have full trust and confidence in the learned Judges of the high courts since they are well-equipped to tackle any kind of pressure situation. However, while it would be prudent to leave it to the learned Judges to pick any one of the three options [(i) dictation of the in open court, (ii) reserving the and pronouncing it on a future day, or (iii) pronouncing the operative part and the outcome, i.e., “dismissed” or “allowed” or “disposed of”, while simultaneously expressing that reasons would follow in a detailed final supporting such outcome], it would be in the interest of justice if any learned Judge, who prefers the third option (supra), makes the reasons available in the public domain, preferably within 2 (two) days thereof but, in any case, not beyond 5 (five) days to eliminate any kind of suspicion in the mind of the party losing the legal battle. If the pressure of work is such that in the assessment of the learned Judge the reasons in support of the final cannot be made available, without fail, in 5 (five) days, it would be a better option to reserve the . Also, if the ultimate would have the effect of changing the status of the parties or the subject matter of the lis, it would always be advisable to stick to the course envisaged in XX. Since, the fraternity of learned Judges of all the courts are interested to preserve the dignity of the respective judicial institutions with which they are associated, 6 (2001) 7 SCC 318 2238 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports all learned Judges must be mindful of the impact of their actions on the society at large. Dealing with lakhs of litigation is no mean task, but at the same time we must realize that instances do emerge leaving absolutely no margin for error.