8.3. It was further stated that the provisions of the PC Act are not applicable to the appellants in appeal arising from SLP (Crl.) No.10078 of 2023, as there is no allegation of bribery against the present appellant. 8.4. It was stated that there was a difference in the valuation report of the said property since the valuer appointed by the bank valued the properties at Rs. 107.7 Crores in the year 2014, and when it was again valued on 28.09.2018 after the account of the borrower company was declared as a Non-Performing Asset, it came down to Rs. 3.45 crores. He further stated that after the consent terms were filed, the same valuer valued the same property at Rs. 57.17 Crores on 23.01.2020. [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1441 Anil Bhavarlal Jain & Anr. v. The State of Maharashtra & Ors. 9. Learned counsel for respondent no.2 submitted before us that mere delay in lodging of the FIR ipso facto will not affect the merits of the case. The counsel further submitted that the settlement as arrived at between the bank and the accused persons would not absolve the appellants from the criminal offences which they have committed. The counsel relied on the of this Court in Gian Singh vs State of Punjab7 to state that in cases where societal interest is involved, it is not prudent to quash the proceedings or reduce the sentence. He further stated that mere fact of repayment of diverted funds and consequent settlement would not dilute the criminal offenses committed. He further submitted that the charges against the appellant were proved in the departmental proceedings. 10. Learned counsel for respondent no. 3 submitted before us that there are serious allegations of fraud and cheating levelled against the appellants in the FIR and a loss has been caused to the bank which ultimately is dealing with public money. The property of a lesser value was valued at exorbitant rates which was offered as security for the loan sanctioned. Further, there was diversion of funds which is also a criminal offence. It was further submitted that a perusal of the FIR does not lead to the conclusion that no cognizable offence is made out against the appellants. Moreover, under clause 15 of the consent terms, it was agreed between the parties that the criminal proceedings and the charges will continue as per law. It is well settled that when a settlement is arrived at between the creditor and debtor, the offence committed as such does not come to an end. Furthermore, in view of the misconduct, the Disciplinary Authority imposed a major penalty of reduction to a lower stage in the time scale of pay on the appellant employees. 11. We have heard the arguments and perused other relevant documents as also the passed by the High Court. 12. The moot question which arises for our consideration in the present case is whether the criminal proceedings can be quashed based upon a settlement arrived at between the parties as per the consent terms drawn and submitted before the DRT.