13. The Counsel for the appellant heavily relied on the case of Gian Singh (supra) to state that their case is squarely covered by the 7 (2012) 10 SCC 303 1442 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports said . Relevant paragraph from the said can be extracted as below: “60 … criminal cases having overwhelmingly and predominantly civil flavour stand on a different footing for the purpose of quashing particularly the offences arising from commercial, financial, mercantile, civil partnership or such like transactions or the offences arising out of matrimony related to dowry etc or the family disputes where the wrong is basically private or personal in nature and the parties have resolved their entire dispute. In this category of cases high court may quash criminal proceedings if in its view because of compromise between the offender and victim the possibility of conviction is remote and bleak and continuation of criminal case would put accused to great oppression and prejudice and extreme injustice would be caused to him by not quashing the criminal case. Despite full and complete settlement and compromise with the victim. In other words, the high Court must consider whether it would be unfair or contrary to the interest of justice to continue with the criminal proceedings or continuation of the criminal proceeding would tantamount to abuse of process of law...” 14. This Court in Gian Singh (supra) has dealt with the powers of the High Court under Section 482 r/w Section 320 of the CrPC and the consequent authority of the High Court to quash criminal proceedings, FIRs or complaints under its inherent jurisdiction as in contradistinction to the power with criminal courts for compounding offenses under Section 320 of the CrPC. The High Court observed that quashing was dependent on the unique circumstances of each case and though no fixed category can be established, heinous and severe offences should not be quashed even if the parties have settled. However, this Court in Gian Singh (supra) categorically made an observation that: “61. …….. The offences of mental depravity under the Indian Penal Code or offences of moral turpitude under special statutes like Prevention of Corruption Act or the offences committed by the public servants while working in that capacity, the settlement between offender and victim can have no legal sanction at all.” [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1443 Anil Bhavarlal Jain & Anr. v. The State of Maharashtra & Ors. 15. In the light of above, the facts of the present case are distinguishable from the facts that came for consideration before this Court in the above case relied on by the appellants herein. 16. Another reference can be made to the of this Court in Parbatbhai Aahir vs State of Gujrat and Anr.8 wherein it was observed that, economic offenses involving financial and economic well-being of the state have implications which lie beyond the domain of a mere dispute between the private disputants. The High Court would be justified in declining to quash where the offender is involved in an activity akin to a financial or economic fraud or misdemeanour.