[2024] 10 S.C.R. 1404 : 2024 INSC 791 Airports Economic Regulatory Authority of India v. Delhi International Airport Ltd. & Ors. (Civil Appeal Nos. 3098-3099 of 2023) 18 October 2024 [Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud,* CJI, J.B. Pardiwala and Manoj Misra, JJ.] Issue for Consideration Whether Airports Economic Regulatory Authority (AERA) has a right to contest an appeal against its determining tariff for aeronautical services before Telecom Disputes Settlement and Appellate Tribunal (TDSAT), and then consequently prefer an appeal against the of TDSAT before this Court under Section 31 of the Airport Economic Regulatory Authority Act, 2008; and Even if AERA does not have a right to contest an appeal against its determining tariff for aeronautical services before TDSAT, does it have a right to prefer an appeal against the of TDSAT before this Court in terms of Section 31 of the AERA Act. Headnotes† Judicial Authority or quasi-judicial Authority – Whether an Authority can be impleaded in an appeal against its if the was issued solely in exercise of its “adjudicatory function”: Held: An authority (either a judicial or quasi-judicial authority) must not be impleaded in an appeal against its if the was issued solely in exercise of its “adjudicatory function”. [Para 33 (a)] Judicial Authority or quasi-judicial Authority – Whether an Authority can be impleaded as a respondent in the appeal against its if it was issued in exercise of its regulatory role: Held: An authority must be impleaded as a respondent in the appeal against its if it was issued in exercise of its regulatory role since the authority would have a vital interest in ensuring the protection of public interest. [Para 33(b)] * Author [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1405 Airports Economic Regulatory Authority of India v. Delhi International Airport Ltd. & Ors. Judicial Authority or quasi-judicial Authority – Whether an Authority can be impleaded as a respondent in the appeal against its where its presence is necessary: Held: An authority may be impleaded as a respondent in the appeal against its where its presence is necessary for the effective adjudication of the appeal in view of its domain expertise. [Para 33(c)] Airport Economic Regulatory Authority of India Act, 2008 – Whether AERA in exercise of its power under Section 13(1) (a) of the AERA Act is discharging an adjudicatory function: Held: (a) It cannot be concluded that AERA is performing an adjudicatory function merely because Section 13(1)(a) uses the phrase “determine” with respect to tariff – This would amount to a formalistic interpretation – The Court ought to make an assessment by undertaking a holistic analysis; (b) Section 13(1) (a) lays down seven factors which must be considered by AERA for determining the tariff of aeronautical services – It is settled that the function can be regarded as legislative even if objective guidelines are prescribed for the exercise of the function – Further, the provision only prescribes broad guidelines that AERA must “take into consideration” – AERA still has sufficient discretion to adapt to circumstances and various concerns while determining tariff – The Act does not prescribe the weightage that must be provided to each of the factors – That is well within the discretion of AERA – This is also evident from Section 13(1)(a)(viii) which provides that AERA may consider “any other factor which may be relevant for the purposes of the Act”; (c) The factors which are required to be considered by AERA indicate the underlying policy considerations of the assessment – The factors, inter alia, include the cost of efficiency and economic and viable operation of major airports; (d) Section 13(1A) requires that AERA be consulted regarding tariff and tariff structures which are proposed to be incorporated in bidding documents – This provision elucidates that even if AERA does not in a strict sense, “determine” tariff in terms of Section 13(1)(a), it will always be interested in the economic viability of airports and in that sense is a regulator of tariff – Thus, the considerations of AERA while determining tariff will be those of a regulator concerned with public and economic interests, which are purely non-adjudicatory considerations; (e) Section 13(2) 1406 [2024] 10 S.C.R.