Even the recommendation of the Senior Officers 12 [2019] 13 SCR 577 : (2020) 15 SCC 784 : 2019 INSC 1203 280 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of the Forest Department, the Vigilance Department, and the Police Department which objected to his posting at a sensitive post have been totally ignored. We are amazed at the audacity of the then Hon’ble Forest Minister and Mr. Kishan Chand, DFO in giving a total go-bye to the statutory provisions. However, since the matter is pending investigation by the CBI, we do not propose to comment any further on the matter. (e) Concern of the CEC 139. The CEC in its report has also elaborately dealt with the past and present policy of MoEF&CC in granting the Forest Clearance (FC) and the Standing Committee of National Board for Wild Life (SC, NBWL) clearances to set up zoos and safaris as forestry and non- forestry activities. It is stated that from the perusal of the minutes of the meeting of the Forest Advisory Committee (FAC) held on 17th February 2021, it would show that, in to grant clearances under the Forest (Conservation) Act,1980 (“FC Act” for short), zoos were treated as forestry activity till 2007. However, from 2017 onwards, it was treated as a non-forestry activity. Thereafter, only 15% of the total area required for parking and cafeteria, etc. for the setting up of zoos/safaris was treated as a non-forestry activity. However, the State is required to get an approval from the MoEF&CC under the FC Act for the entire area required for the setting up of zoos and safaris. The Net Present Value (NPV) is being collected only in respect of 15% of the total area. The CEC therefore observed that there was a lack of clarity in policy regarding the setting up of zoos and safaris inside the forest boundary in such a sensitive matter. 140. The CEC has also highlighted various clauses in the NTCA Guidelines. It has referred to inconsistencies between the 2016 Guidelines and the 2019 Guidelines. We do not want to elaborately discuss the said issue since we have already referred to the same in the earlier paragraphs. 141. The CEC has also expressed its concern about the issue that the location of Tiger Safaris within Tiger Reserve with tigers sourced from zoos is bound to endanger the population of wild tigers in the Tiger Reserves. 142. The CEC has further observed that, the Tiger Safaris are not site- specific activities as confirmed by the MoEF&CC. It also expressed [2024] 3 S.C.R. 281 In Re: T.N. Godavarman Thirumulpad v. Union of India & Ors. In Re: Gaurav Kumar Bansal its opinion that the Tiger Safaris do not have to be necessarily located within the notified Tiger Reserves, be it buffer or fringe areas of the Tiger Reserves. It has been stated in the report that at times the density of the tiger population is higher in the buffer area as compared to the core area. The concern expressed is that, by permitting the “zoos bred captive animals” in the buffer or fringe areas, the possibility of tigers being exposed to pests and diseases is enhanced.