This Court in Venkata Reddy (supra) explained the concept of “preliminary decree” and “final decree” in detail and observed thus: “… A decision is said to be final when so far as the court rendering it is concerned, it is unalterable except by resort to such provisions of the code of Civil Procedure as permit its reversal, modification or amendment. Similarly, a final decision would mean a decision which would operate as res judicata between the parties if it is not sought to be modified or reversed by preferring an appeal or a revision or a review application as is permitted by the Code. A preliminary decree passed, whether it is in a mortgage suit or a partition suit, is not a tentative decree but must, in so far as the matters dealt with by it are concerned, be regarded as conclusive. No doubt, in suits which contemplate the making of two decrees, a preliminary decree and a final decree, the decree which would be executable would be the final decree. But the finality of a decree or a decision does not necessarily depend upon its being executable. The legislature in its [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1935 Abdul Rejak Laskar v. Mafizur Rahman & Ors. wisdom has thought that suits of certain types should be decided in stages and though the suit in such cases can be regarded as fully and completely decided only after a final decree is made, the decision of the court arrived at the earlier stage also has a finality attached to it. It would be relevant to refer to Section 97 of the Code of Civil Procedure which provides that where a party aggrieved by a preliminary decree does not appeal from it, he is precluded from disputing its correctness in any appeal which may be preferred from the final decree. This provision thus clearly indicates that as to the matters covered by it, a preliminary decree is regarded as embodying the final decision of the court passing that decree.” (Emphasis supplied) 49. A final decree is one which completely disposes of the suit and finally settles all the questions in controversy between the parties and nothing further remains to be decided thereafter. A preliminary decree in a partition suit merely determines and declares the rights of the parties in the properties and the extent to which they are entitled. It is the final decree which ultimately divides the properties by metes and bounds and awards separate possession of the properties to the claimants. The function of the final decree is to restate and apply what the preliminary decree has ed. A final decree is thus based upon and controlled by preliminary decree. It is settled legal position that final decree proceedings are in continuation of preliminary decree proceedings and there is no executable decree unless the final decree is passed. The final decree does not originate itself, but flows from preliminary decree already passed in a suit determining and declaring the rights and interests of the parties in the suit.