The 1130 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports expressions ‘Merit-cum-Seniority’ and ‘Seniority-cum-Merit’ in service jurisprudence are nothing but principles which are used to broadly categorize policies pertaining to promotions. They only lay down the broad framework within which specific policies of promotion can be elaborately laid down. 103. In Bhagwandas Tiwari (supra) this Court held that where for the purpose of promotion a high threshold of minimum required marks has been prescribed, the same would be an instance of ‘Merit- cum-Seniority’, even in the absence of a comparative assessment of merit, thus clearly indicating that these postulations are not mandatory. As even without an element of comparative merit, the promotion could be based on ‘Merit-cum-Seniority’, provided that merit is given prominence over seniority in the promotion process. Therefore, the only factor that sets apart ‘Merit-cum-Seniority’ from ‘Seniority-cum-Merit’ is whether emphasis is laid on merit or seniority. All other ancillary factors or postulations such as comparative merit or a minimum specified benchmark may or may not be material to these principles. 104. The fluid nature of the principles of ‘Merit-cum-Seniority’ and ‘Seniority-cum-Merit’ is further evinced by the decision of this Court in K. Samantaray (supra) wherein although the policy stipulated that promotion would be on the basis of ‘Seniority-cum-Merit’, yet this Court after going through the elaborate promotion policy held that a third mode of promotion known as the “Hybrid Mode of Promotion” has come to be recognized by this Court, wherein it is open for the employer to specify the area and parameter of weight required to be given to merit and seniority for the purpose of promotion. It was further held that it is always open for the employer or the selection body to decide and stipulate their own criteria for adjudging the claims on the principles of ‘Seniority-cum-Merit’ or ‘Merit-cum-Seniority’ depending upon the class, category and nature of post and the requirements of efficiency. 105. What can be discerned from the aforesaid is that, wherever the expression ‘Merit-cum-Seniority’ or ‘Seniority-cum-Merit’ has been supplemented by an elaborate promotion policy or statutory rules clearly indicating the parameters on which promotions are to be made, the mode of promotion assumes the character of a Hybrid or Dynamic Mode of Promotion as held in K. Samantaray (supra). [2024] 5 S.C.R. 1131 Ravikumar Dhansukhlal Maheta & Anr. v. High Court of Gujarat & Ors. 106. In such scenario, these principles serve as a beacon for the selection body which, in exercise of its delegated legislative powers, can formulate policies and lay down different criteria and conditions of assessment for the purposes of promotion. It does so by providing the selection body with the tools for formulating the promotion policy in the form of the aforementioned postulations or criteria which are permissible under these principles. Thereafter, the selection body can, as a conscious choice, decide the criteria it deems necessary or most suitable for the purpose of promotion keeping in mind the nature of the post, the requirements of service, etc. 107. For instance, where the promotion is based on ‘Merit-cum-Seniority’, the selection body may opt for a comparative assessment of merit, more particularly, in cases where the promotions are competitive in nature or it may say that seniority should only be considered where merit is equal in all respect if the post is of such nature that it requires significant knowledge and ability.