Electronic Voting Machines (EVM) process has been utilized in our Country for decades now but periodically issues are sought to be raised. This is one such endeavor in the abstract.” 14. Recently, this Court vide dated 22.09.2023 dismissed Writ Petition (Civil) No. 826/2023 titled Sunil Ahya v. Election Commission of India seeking independent audit of the source code of EVMs. This Court observed that: 12 2017 SCC OnLine SC 1734 [2024] 5 S.C.R. 429 Association For Democratic Reforms v. Election Commission of India And Another “The Election Commission is a constitutional entity entrusted under Article 324 of the Constitution with superintendence and control over the conduct of the elections. The petitioner has placed no actionable material on the record of the Court to indicate that the Election Commission has acted in breach of its constitutional mandate. Ultimately, the manner in which the source code should be audited and the way the audit should be dealt with bears on sensitive issues pertaining to the integrity of the elections which are conducted under the superintendence of the Election Commission. On such a policy issue, we are not inclined to issue a direction as sought by the petitioner. There is no material before this Court, at this stage, to indicate that the Election Commission is not taking suitable steps to fulfill its mandate.” 15. This Court in Kamal Nath v. Election Commission of India and Others13, observed that it was without doubt that over the last several decades ECI has built the reputation of an impartial body and a constitutional authority which strives to hold fair election in which the people of this country participate with great trust and faith. The challenge to the EVMs and prayer for conducting VVPAT verification on random basis for 10% of the votes was rejected. 16. We could have dismissed the present writ petitions by merely relying upon the past precedents and decisions of this Court which, in our opinion, are clear and lucid, and as repeated challenges based on suspicion and doubt, without any cogent material and data, are execrable and undesirable. However, we would like to put on record the procedure and safeguards adopted by the ECI to ensure free and fair elections and the integrity of the electoral process. For this purpose, we shall refer to and take on record the features of EVMs.14 Lastly, we would give two directions, and take on record suggestion(s) for consideration of the ECI. 17. The EVM consists of three units, namely, the ballot unit, the control unit, and the VVPAT. The ballot unit acts as a keyboard or a keypad. 13 [2018] 12 SCR 842 : (2019) 2 SCC 260 14 In view of the issue raised, we are not dealing with the post counting handling of EVMs. 430 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports The ballot unit consists of 16 keys/buttons one of which the voter has to press when he exercises his choice to vote for any candidate. The keys are political party and candidate agnostic.