In this regard, reference may be made to the decision of the Court of Appeal of England & Wales in Regina v. Michael Land reported in [1997] EWCA Crim J1010-15 wherein the court was dealing with an offence of possession of indecent photographs of children for the purpose of distribution under Section 1(1)(c) of the Protection of Children Act 1978. There the question arose whether the individual in the aforesaid photographs was under sixteen years of age or not. The court observed that often there lies an inherent difficulty in making any positive identification of the person in question, so as to establish their age conclusively. It held that, thus in such situations, the question whether such person is a child or not would have to be ascertained as a matter of inference from the facts and the material in question, without any need for a formal proof of the same. The court further rejected the contention that in the absence of any paediatric or other expert evidence, no such inference can be drawn. It observed that such fact-based questions of age can be assessed by the judge or the jury as the case may be by use of their critical faculties and senses such as their eyes, supplemented with their own judgement and experience. 133. In John Leadbetter v. Her Majesty’s Advocate reported in [2020] HCJAC 51, the High Court of Justiciary, Scottland held that no expert witness is required for proof of age of any person depicted in an obscene material in question. It further held that, such proof of age may be established by any witness or a person who demonstrates a certain extent of skill or knowledge in determination of the age on the basis of a wide range of evidence that may be available. 236 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 134. In United States v. Katz reported in 178 F.3rd 368 (5th Cir. 1999), it was held by the U.S. Court of Appeals, Fifth Circuit, Louisiana, that the threshold question whether the age of any person in a child pornography may be determined by a ‘lay’ jury without the assistance of expert testimony where there is no conflict of opinion as to the age. However, it observed that where the individual in question appears to have reached puberty, there expert testimony or opinion as to proof of age would be necessary. 135. In Commonwealth v. Robert reported in (829 A.2d. 127), the Superior Court of Pennsylvania observed that proof of age, like proof of any material fact, can be accomplished by the use of either direct or circumstantial evidence, or both. It held that the proof necessary to satisfy the element of age in a dissemination or possession of child pornography case is not limited to expert opinion testimony. 136. What is discernible from the aforesaid is that, although, in the few decisions referred to by us, there is a difference of opinion as to whether an expert’s testimony or determination is necessary or not for the proof of age of an individual depicted in any pornographic material, yet in all of the aforementioned decisions it has been consistently held that the criteria for such determination is only the subjective satisfaction.