[2024] 9 S.C.R. 150 : 2024 INSC 660 Chirag Bhanu Singh & Anr. v. High Court of Himachal Pradesh & Ors. (Writ Petition (C) No. 312 of 2024) 06 September 2024 [Hrishikesh Roy* and Prashant Kumar Mishra, JJ.] Issue for Consideration Writ petition filed by two seniormost District and Sessions Judges in the State of Himachal Pradesh aggrieved with the non-consideration of their names by the High Court Collegium for elevation as Judges of the High Court and recommendation of names of two officers junior to them for elevation, in ignorance of the directions of reconsideration given by the Collegium of the Supreme Court. Whether the present writ petition is maintainable; whether elevation for judgeship in the High Court has to be considered collectively by the High Court Collegium or whether the Chief Justice acting individually can reconsider the same. Headnotes† Judiciary – Higher Judiciary – Appointment of Judges of High Court – Judicial Review – Absence of consultation amongst the members of the Collegium – Recommendation by the Supreme Court Collegium for reconsideration of the names of the two petitioners for elevation as Judges of the High Court – Whether the reconsideration of the proposal for the elevation of the petitioners was jointly made by the Collegium members of the High Court, following the Supreme Court Resolution dated 04.01.2024 – Maintainability of the present writ petition: Held: The writ petition is maintainable as it questions the lack of effective consultation – The Chief Justice of a High Court cannot individually reconsider a recommendation and it can only be done by the High Court Collegium acting collectively – The process of judicial appointments to a superior court is not the prerogative of a single individual – It is a collaborative and participatory process involving all Collegium members and must reflect the collective wisdom that draws from diverse perspectives * Author [2024] 9 S.C.R. 151 Chirag Bhanu Singh & Anr. v. High Court of Himachal Pradesh & Ors. and ensures that principles of transparency and accountability are maintained – The recommendation by the Supreme Court Collegium for reconsideration is not expected to be addressed individually to all the members of the High Court Collegium – Such communications are naturally addressed to the Chief Justice of the concerned High Court however, the letter addressed to the Chief Justice will not enable the Chief Justice to act without participation by the other two Collegium members – In the present case, there was no collective consultation and deliberations amongst the members of the High Court Collegium, the three Constitutional functionaries of the High Court i.e. the Chief Justice and the two senior-most companion judges – The procedure adopted in the matter of reconsideration of the two petitioners is inconsistent with the law laid down in the Second Judges and the Third Judges case – The decision of the Chief Justice of the High Court on the suitability of the two petitioners as conveyed in his letter dated 06.03.2024 is an individual decision and therefore, vitiated – High Court Collegium to reconsider the names of the two petitioners for elevation as Judges of the High Court following the Supreme Court Collegium decision dated 04.01.2024 and the Law Minister’s letter dated 16.01.2024.