34, no. 2, pp. 243–63. 6 Ibid. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1765 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. civilization’, which included the protection of minority rights.7 This was not merely a moral obligation but a strategic tool for gaining acceptance within the global community. Nations such as Greece, for example, were compelled by powers like France, Great Britain, and Russia to uphold minority rights as a condition for their recognition and support.8 8. This momentum of bestowing rights to minorities continued to gain further traction across Europe. For instance, Hungary’s Parliament first proclaimed minority rights in July 1849,9 followed by their formal codification into Austrian law in 1867. Similarly, Belgium joined the movement in 1898. Although this era did not achieve universal respect for minority rights, it marked a pivotal shift, with these categories of rights increasingly taking centre stage in international negotiations and settlements, particularly in the aftermath of conflicts. 9. The mid-19th century also witnessed the gradual upliftment of historically-oppressed groups, such as the African-Americans, who constituted the largest minority in the United States. The American Civil War of the 1860s culminated in the issuance of the Emancipation Proclamation by Abraham Lincoln in 1863. This landmark decree effectively abolished slavery and guaranteed freedom to all African- Americans. This progress was further bolstered by the 14th Amendment of 1868, which granted various civil rights to all citizens.10 10. This trajectory of liberation extended into the early 20th century, with the League of Nations making the establishment of a minority state system one of its key priorities. The new Nation-States that emerged in East-Central Europe post-1919 were so ethnographically diverse that recognising minority rights became essential. The victorious powers understood that ethnic dissatisfaction with the territorial status quo could potentially escalate into domestic and even international violence. Thus,the rights of minorities became a prerequisite for 7 G. Gong, “The Standard of Civilization in International Society” Oxford University Press, (1984). 8 Greece Liberated– London Protocol, (United Kingdom, France & Russia) (adopted on 03 February, 1830). 9 Mazohl, Brigitte, ‘‘Equality among the Nationalities’ and the Peoples (Volksstämme) of the Habsburg Empire”, Constitutionalism, Legitimacy, and Power: Nineteenth-Century Experiences Chapter 9, Oxford University Press (2014). 10 Holloway, Jonathan Scott, “Civilization, race, and the politics of uplift”, African American History: A Very Short Introduction, Chapter 4, (Oxford University Press) (2023). 1766 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports independence, as well as a condition for war reparations or admission into the League of Nations. A notable example is the Polish Minority Treaties of 1918, which granted special and presumably temporary rights in areas such as education, allowing minorities to read and learn their preferred languages.11 11. The growing significance of minority rights during this period is further exemplified by several cases before the Permanent Court of International Justice (PCIJ). In a 1923 case of the Rights of Minorities in Upper Silesia, the PCIJ affirmed that individuals should have the autonomy to decide their minority affiliation.12 Similarly, in the 1930 Greco-Bulgarian communities case, the PCIJ emphasized the rights of minorities to uphold and preserve their traditions, clarifying that a ‘community’ under the subject-Convention referred to a group united by race, religion, language, and traditions, and that such a community could possess property distinct from any individual comprising it.13 Further, in Minority Schools in Albania, decided in 1935, the PCIJ explored the interrelation between minority status and cultural identity while addressing the religious and educational autonomy enjoyed by the Greek communities of Albania.14 The PCIJ concluded that the essence of minority treaties was to ensure de facto equality for minorities, thus enabling them to maintain their cultural distinctiveness through a specialized minority regime.