957 High Court Bar Association, Allahabad v. State of U.P. & Ors. vital interest. Delay in trials affects the faith in Rule of Law and efficacy of the legal system. It affects social welfare and development. Even in civil or tax cases it has been laid down that power to grant stay has to be exercised with restraint. Mere prima facie case is not enough. Party seeking stay must be put to terms and stay should not be an incentive to delay. The granting stay must show application of mind. The power to grant stay is coupled with accountability. [Siliguri Municipality v. Amalendu Das, (1984) 2 SCC 436, para 4 : 1984 SCC (Tax) 133; CCE v. Dunlop India Ltd., (1985) 1 SCC 260, para 5 : 1985 SCC (Tax) 75; State (UT of Pondicherry) v. P.V. Suresh, (1994) 2 SCC 70, para 15 and State of W.B. v. Calcutta Hardware Stores, (1986) 2 SCC 203, para 5] 31. Wherever stay is granted, a speaking must be passed showing that the case was of exceptional nature and delay on account of stay will not prejudice the interest of speedy trial in a corruption case. Once stay is granted, proceedings should not be adjourned, and concluded within two-three months.” (Emphasis added) 2. We have been called upon to decide the correctness of the view taken in paragraphs 36 and 37 of the said decision, which read thus: “36. In view of the above, situation of proceedings remaining pending for long on account of stay needs to be remedied. Remedy is required not only for corruption cases but for all civil and criminal cases where on account of stay, civil and criminal proceedings are held up. At times, proceedings are adjourned sine die on account of stay. Even after stay is vacated, intimation is not received and proceedings are not taken up. In an attempt to remedy this situation, we consider it appropriate to direct that in all pending cases where stay against proceedings of a civil or criminal trial is operating, the same will come to an end on expiry of six months from today unless in an exceptional case by a speaking such stay is extended. In cases where stay is granted in future, the same 958 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports will end on expiry of six months from the date of such unless similar extension is granted by a speaking . The speaking must show that the case was of such exceptional nature that continuing the stay was more important than having the trial finalised. The trial court where of stay of civil or criminal proceedings is produced, may fix a date not beyond six months of the of stay so that on expiry of period of stay, proceedings can commence unless of extension of stay is produced. 37. Thus, we declare the law to be that framing charge is not purely an interlocutory nor a final . Jurisdiction of the High Court is not barred irrespective of the label of a petition, be it under Sections 397 or 482 CrPC or Article 227 of the Constitution.