22. There is a deliberate intention to permit ITC on plant or machinery under Section 17(5)(d) even if the plant or machinery is immovable, and Section 17(5)(d) cannot be detracted by Section 16(3). He submitted that Sections 16(3) and 17(5) must be read harmoniously. REPLY TO REJOINDER 23. We may note here that submissions in brief were made by learned ASG dealing with the arguments of Shri Arvind Datar, Senior Advocate. His submission is that the expression “capital goods” is intended to include “plant and machinery”. He submitted that what emerges from steel, cement, etc., are immovable goods, which would be excluded from GST. Since no GST is payable on immovable property, ITC is not available. BROAD ISSUES FOR CONSIDERATION 24. Considering the submissions made by the parties, the following main questions arise for consideration: (i) Whether the definition of “plant and machinery” in the explanation appended to Section 17 of the CGST Act applies to the expression “plant or machinery” used in clause (d) of sub-section (5) of Section 17? (ii) If it is held that the explanation does not apply to “plant or machinery”, what is the meaning of the word “plant”? and (iii) Whether clauses (c) and (d) of Section 17(5) and Section 16(4) of the CGST Act are unconstitutional? RULES REGARDING THE INTERPRETATION OF TAXING STATUTES 25. Regarding the interpretation of taxation statutes, the parties have relied on several decisions. The law laid down on this aspect is fairly well-settled. The principles governing the interpretation of the taxation statutes can be summarised as follows: 818 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports a. A taxing statute must be read as it is with no additions and no subtractions on the grounds of legislative intendment or otherwise; b. If the language of a taxing provision is plain, the consequence of giving effect to it may lead to some absurd result is not a factor to be considered when interpreting the provisions. It is for the legislature to step in and remove the absurdity; c. While dealing with a taxing provision, the principle of strict interpretation should be applied; d. If two interpretations of a statutory provision are possible, the Court ordinarily would interpret the provision in favour of a taxpayer and against the revenue; e. In interpreting a taxing statute, equitable considerations are entirely out of place; f. A taxing provision cannot be interpreted on any presumption or assumption; g. A taxing statute has to be interpreted in the light of what is clearly expressed. The Court cannot imply anything which is not expressed. Moreover, the Court cannot import provisions in the statute to supply any deficiency; h. There is nothing unjust in the taxpayer escaping if the letter of the law fails to catch him on account of the legislature’s failure to express itself clearly; i. If literal interpretation is manifestly unjust, which produces a result not intended by the legislature, only in such a case can the Court modify the language; j. Equity and taxation are strangers.