Yes. KYC norms will be applicable regardless of whether the applicant is an SBI account holder or a non-SBI account holder. 7 FAQ Question No. 45. Can I use more than one Instrument with one Electoral Bond Application Form? No. On single set Documents i.e. Electoral Bond Application Form, KYC Documents, Citizenship Documents and Pay-in slip for purchase of Electoral Bonds, Donor can use only one Instrument. In case Donor desires to use another Instrument, he/she has to submit another set of documents i.e. Electoral Bond Application Form, KYC Documents, Citizenship Documents and Pay-in slip to the Authorized SBI Branch. 8 FAQ Question No. 19: I am not maintaining account with any Branch of State Bank of India. How can [2024] 3 S.C.R. 645 State Bank of India v. Association for Democratic Reforms and Others the details of the Electoral Bonds which have been purchased and which have been directed to be disclosed by this Court are readily available. 11. Similarly, the FAQs on Electoral Bonds published by the SBI with respect to redemption of Bonds states that each political party can open only one current account for Electoral Bond redemption.9 The current account could be opened by the political party only in twenty- nine designated branches all over the country. Thus, information about a political party’s encashment of Electoral Bonds would only be stored in these branches which would be clearly accessible. The authorized branches must submit the pay-in-slip and other details to the main branch. There is no dispute about the fact that this process was duly followed. 12. Together with the application which has been filed by the SBI for the extension of time, ADR has filed a contempt petition in which it submits that the information which was directed to be disclosed by this Court can easily be disclosed by the SBI because of the unique number which is printed on the Electoral Bond. Irrespective of whether the unique identification number which is not discernible to the naked eye will enable the disclosure of details, the submissions of SBI in I purchase Electoral Bond? Purchaser not maintaining account with State Bank of India can purchase Electoral Bond through a. Cheque / DD drawn in favour of the Authorized SBI Branch and payable at the local Clearing House. Steps involved: i. Purchaser submits the Electoral Bond Application Form alongwith pay-in-slip, Citizenship & KYC documents and Cheque/ DD at Authorized SBI Branch. The same need to be submitted at least three working days before the closure of the scheme, so that clear funds for issuance of Electoral Bonds, are available with the Authorized SBI Branch. In case of payment through DD, a confirmation letter from the DD issuance Branch on the prescribed format should also be provided. ii. The Cheque/ DD should be in favour of “State Bank of India A/c Electoral Bond Scheme -2018” iii. Once the Citizenship and KYC documents are verified the instrument will be sent in clearing. Tear off portion of pay-in-slip will be handed over to the Applicant.