Since no suit for recovery of possession stands filed till date, Gopalakrishnan’s claim today is barred by limitation. 15. The question before us is, from when will the period of limitation run, for Gopalakrishnan to stake a claim on the properties? 16. If the period of limitation is to run from the date of the Second Settlement Deed, then the rights should be extinguished in 1964. If the same were to run from either 1974 or 1976, then after 1986 or 1988 respectively, Gopalakrishnan had no right in the property on the plea of adverse possession. 17. We notice that this Court in Gopalakrishna (supra) had observed that a reversioner ordinarily must file a suit for possession within 12 years from the death of the limited heir or widow. That metric being applied to the instant facts, it is after the death of Pavunammal, that the reversioner, or in this case the heir of the reversioner (Gopalakrishnan) ought to have filed the suit. The suit, the subject matter of appeal before us is a suit for declaration simpliciter and not possession. So, the possession still rests with heir of Pavunammal. The twelve-year period stood expired in 2016 (with the death of Pavanummal in the year 2004) therefore, in our considered view, the suit is barred by limitation, which was filed in 1993. 18. The learned counsel for the respondents contended that since the suit stood filed in respect of the property, the clock for adverse [2024] 2 S.C.R. 341 Vasantha (Dead) Thr. Lr. v. Rajalakshmi @ Rajam (Dead) Thr.Lrs. possession stopped ticking. He relied on Tribhuvanshankar (supra) to buttress this claim. 19. A perusal of the said decision shows a reference has been made to Sultan Khan v. State of MP22 to hold that if a suit for recovery of possession has been filed then the time period for adverse possession is arrested. The instant decision is distinguishable from the current set of facts on two grounds: one, that the holding of the Madhya Pradesh High Court was in respect of Section 248 of the MP Land Revenue Code and had been referenced in an appeal arising from the State of MP itself; two, in the present facts, Gopalakrishnan has filed only a suit for declaration and not one for possession. The said declaration suit was filed in the year 1993. It was after the death of Pavunammal (in 2004) that the relief of possession became available to him. However, no such relief has been claimed. This decision does not in any way support the claim of the respondents. 20. In Saroop Singh v. Banto (2-Judge Bench)23, this Court observed that Article 65 states that the starting point of limitation does not commence from the date when the right of ownership arises to the plaintiff but commences from the date the defendant’s possession becomes adverse. Further relying on Karnataka Board of Wakf v. Govt. of India (2-Judge Bench)24, it observed that the physical fact of exclusive possession and the animus possidendi to hold as owner in exclusion to the actual owner are the most important factors that are to be accounted in cases related to adverse possession.