[2024] 11 S.C.R. 211 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. 7.8 Further, the term “distribution” no doubt has a wide connotation but, in my view, it is only “material resource of the community” which can be a subject matter of distribution under Article 39(b) which excludes “personal effects”. In other words, material resources under the ownership and control of private persons cannot per se be distributed by the State unless the said resources are first transformed as “material resources of the community”. In my view, public/State owned resources are per se“material resources of the community” and as rightly observed by the learned Chief Justice, the Public Trust doctrine applies to such resources. Secondly, such “material resources of the community” can be distributed as best to subserve the common good. It is only when the aforesaid twin conditions are satisfied that the goal or object of Article 39(b) would be achieved. 7.9 In other words, unless and until private ownership and control of the material resources are transformed or converted into the “material resources of the community” which is a condition precedent, there cannot be distribution of the said resources by the State. It is only when privately owned material resources are transformed as “material resources of the community” that the State acquires the right to distribute them to subserve the common good. Otherwise, the State would merely transfer privately owned material resource from one owner say, “A” to another person,say “B” without first making it a “material resource of the community” which, in my view, is not the intent of the framers of the Constitution and neither is the same envisaged under Article 39(b). 7.10 Further, the expression “distribution”need not per se stop with mere vesting of the privately owned material resources in the State on nationalisation of the said resources. It could be when the said resources are further distributed for the common good that the object and purpose of Article 39(b) would be achieved. In certain situations, however, depending upon the nature of the resource and its characteristics or the scarcity of the resource or the particular policy to be achieved may persuade the State tonot actually distribute the said resourceamongst the citizens but to retain it with the State and utilise the same for the common good, i.e., in public interest. In such an event, the State would 212 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports retain such privatelyowned resources with itself, either by nationalisation or through acquisition or by way of vesting of the said resource in the state by operation of law. Therefore, distribution may not in all cases be“actual distribution”,i.e., by making over the “material resource of the community” to the citizens. But mere vesting of private resource in the State without anything more would not constitute “distribution”in all cases unless the policy of the State determines whether such resources have to remain under the ownership and control of the State. Till then the State must hold the same in public trust for the common good.