c. That no chronic toxic studies have been conducted on GM crops. d. Despite a specific proposal for establishing a lab to conduct indigenous and independent assessment studies, the erstwhile Director General of ICAR, Dr. R.S. Paroda, the erstwhile Director General of Council [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1995 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), Dr. R.A. Mashelkar and GEAC were reluctant to support the same. ii. The Committee, discussing the status, composition and functioning of GEAC, highlighted the following deficiencies: a. GEAC is headed by a civil servant, who is also functioning in another capacity in the MoEF, the controlling authority of GEAC. b. The Co-Chairman of GEAC is a biotechnologist who, though purportedly from outside, is nominated by the DBT, the Department that funds and promotes projects on transgenic products. Therefore, primacy is accorded to the DBT nominated Co-Chair in the decision-making process. c. The Vice-Chairman is again a civil servant, simultaneously discharging a few more responsibilities in another role in the MoEF. d. GEAC being an entity created under the Rules rather than an Act of Parliament deprives it of the status, powers and more importantly, autonomy and independence that a statutory regulator ought to have. iii. The Committee noted the findings of several scientific reports, including the International Assessment of Agricultural Knowledge, Science and Technology for Development (IAASTD) Report – ‘Agriculture at a Crossroads’, and underlined the following shortcomings of modern biotechnology in agriculture: a. Modern biotechnologies have yet to prove their efficacy, safety and sustainability in the case of GM crops. There are significant limitations in its ability to conserve the resilience of small and subsistence agricultural systems, etc. b. Containment of harm would be a very challenging task even for some of the most well-equipped developed countries and simply impossible in a country like India. 1996 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports c. The integration of biotechnology must be within an enabling environment, supported by local research and education that empowers local communities. iv. With respect to regulation and labelling of GM foodstuffs, the Committee observed the casual approach on the part of both MoEF and Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW). While the MoEF, on 23.08.2007, exempted all GM food categories from regulations under Rule 11 if the end product was not an LMO, the MoHFW did not include GM foods from the restrictions on manufacture, distribution and selling when it issued the notification under Section 22, Food Safety and Standards Act, 2006 (for short, “FSSA, 2006”). The Committee noted that the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) regulation for GM processed food was nowhere in sight, even though so many years had gone by. While noting that Section 23 of FSSA, 2006 requires FSSAI to notify labelling, the Committee observed that FSSAI had not been able to do so. v. It was concluded that the tendency of the regulatory mechanism, in the absence of specialized infrastructure and research and development (R&D) facilities in India, is to base their decision- making on practices and studies elsewhere, as also on the assessments and data generated by the applicant concerned.