It is how lessons that individuals learn from mistakes which facilitate in putting the past behind for moving forward. 17. Nonetheless, we regret to observe that the learned Judge having realised in April, 2024 of having omitted to assign reasons for dismissal of the petition although His Lordship had pronounced “dismissed” in open court proceedings on 1st March, 2023, could have avoided committing an act of indiscretion, by breaching all norms of ethics, in proceeding to assign reasons more than a year later. In accordance with the highest standards of fairness, propriety and discipline, the need of the hour required the learned Judge to bring the matter back on board once again, recall the verbal of dismissal and place it before the Hon’ble the Chief Justice of the High Court for assigning it to some other Bench for fresh consideration. 18. It cannot be gainsaid that in today’s world, particularly when more and more people are showing interest in court proceedings and there is wide coverage thereof on social media platforms, the presiding officers of courts are equally at the centre of attention as the controversy that is involved and the manner of its resolution. The society expects every Judge of a high court, so to say, to be a model of rectitude, an epitome of unimpeachable integrity and unwavering principles, a champion of moral excellence, and an embodiment of [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2235 Ratilal Jhaverbhai Parmar and Ors. v. State of Gujarat and Ors. professionalism, who can consistently deliver work of high-quality guaranteeing justice. Although, on the whole, the weight of work on learned Judges of the high courts across the country is immense and the Judges have also been performing commendably despite various odds, instances such as the one under consideration, which we view as nothing more than an aberration, bring disrepute to the judicial system of the country and show the entire judiciary in poor light. This, in our opinion, could have well been avoided with a little bit of care and caution, and deference to the decisions on the point by this Court. 19. The situation presents us with an opportunity where we feel it expedient to share our thoughts only for the purpose of future guidance to overcome adversity. Having regard to the demands of changing times, one of the significant aspects of judging that has been at the forefront of discussion in many a conference/conclave or legal circle is the need for prompt ‘pronouncement of s’. XX of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 ordains that a can be pronounced, in an open court, either at once or as soon thereafter as may be practicable on a future day. Guided by the principles enshrined in XX, number of learned Judges scrupulously follow the same. Learned Judges do come across cases requiring short s which, in their assessment, may not consume more than 15/20 minutes. These s are generally dictated in open court immediately after a hearing is over. On the other hand, if in any given case the could justifiably be reserved after hearing of extensive arguments, it would not be proper to criticize a learned Judge if he dictates the in open court notwithstanding the length of time to be taken therefor.