This, however, is subject to the proviso to Article 239-AA(4) of the Constitution. Such an interpretation would be in consonance with the concepts of pragmatic federalism and federal balance by giving the Government of NCT of Delhi some required degree of independence subject to the limitations imposed by the Constitution.” 25. The of the majority, however, clarified that if Parliament makes a law in relation to any subject in List II and List III, the executive power of GNCTD shall then be limited by the law enacted by Parliament. It was held: “284.15. A conjoint reading of clauses (3)(a) and (4) of Article 239-AA divulges that the executive power of the Government of NCTD is coextensive with the legislative power of the Delhi Legislative Assembly and, accordingly, the executive power of the Council of Ministers of Delhi spans over all subjects in the Concurrent [2024] 8 S.C.R. 221 Government of NCT of Delhi v. Office of Lieutenant Governor of Delhi List and all, but three excluded subjects, in the State List. However, if Parliament makes law in respect of certain subjects falling in the State List or the Concurrent List, the executive action of the State must conform to the law made by Parliament. (sic)” 26. The above view was also taken by Justice Chandrachud in his concurring opinion: “316. the provisions of Clause 2 and Clause 3 of Article 239AA indicate that while conferring a constitutional status upon the legislative assembly of NCT, the Constitution has circumscribed the ambit of its legislative Powers firstly, by carving out certain subjects from its competence (vesting them in Parliament) and secondly, by enabling Parliament to enact law on matters falling both in the State and Concurrent lists. Moreover, in the subjects which have been assigned to it, the legislative authority of the Assembly is not exclusive and is subject to laws which are enacted by Parliament.” 27. The 2018 Constitution Bench authoritatively held that the legislative and executive power of NCTD extends to all subjects in Lists II and III, except those explicitly excluded. However, in view of Article 239AA(3) (b), Parliament has the power to make laws with respect to all subjects in List II and III for NCTD.” 16. It is in the above referred constitutional position of NCTD that we will examine the law enacted by the Parliament on Municipality, i.e. the Delhi Municipal Corporation Act, 1957. Delhi Municipal Corporation Act 1957, as amended by Act 67/93: 17. The Delhi Municipal Corporation Act is a law which relates to Entry 5 of State List.18 This is an Act to consolidate and amend the law 18 This is an admitted position as can be seen from para 2.2 of the written submission of Dr. Singhvi that, “In the present case, the DMC Act relates to Entry 5 of State List”. 222 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports relating to the Municipal Government of Delhi. We are concerned with Section 3(3)(b)(i) of the Act, introduced by an amendment in 1993, after introduction of Article 239AA in 1991, which requires the Lt.