In other words, the candidates cannot be allowed to “approbate and reprobate”11 in the same breath. As such, it would be impermissible to seek dilution of the Shetty Commission recommended criteria, only for the viva voce segment. 31. The Shetty Commission recommended that the degree of subjectivity and arbitrariness should be reduced and the selection should be transparent. In clauses (vi) and (vii) of Para 10.99 of the Report, it was specifically noted as under: “(vi) Today, the viva voce examination can be more unfair than the written examination in view of the fact that it is decided on chance or impression in the shortest possible time. Rural candidates are generally at a disadvantage in this process. English-speaking candidates sometimes gain advantage without they being superior in skills for the job. A dominant member of the interview board may carry the day to the disadvantage of many deserving candidates. These things happen not necessarily because of any conscious bias or disposition of members of the Board. This is inherent in the process itself as it operates at present in many places. The judiciary cannot afford to lose opportunities to get the most outstanding candidate because of infirmities in the selection system. As such, an alternative procedure by and large modelled on the lines of the written examination is recommended for the viva voce as well. (vii) The viva-voce Examination will adopt the following procedure: (a) A proforma containing categories such as knowledge /Skills/ Attitude/ Ethics/Communication /Character, etc., 11 Pradeep Kumar Rai v Dinesh Kumar Pandey (2015) 11 SCC 493 (Para 17) [2024] 6 S.C.R. 557 Abhimeet Sinha & Ors. v. High Court of Judicature at Patna & Ors. be developed (this will depend on what are the qualities the judiciary is looking for in the prospective Judges being interviewed) in advance and each category may be given relative weightage (credits)in terms of marks. For example, if the total Viva marks are 100, one may assign 10 marks for knowledge /comprehension, 5 marks for ethics /attitude, 25 marks for skills of judging, 10 marks for communication abilities, 10 marks for general knowledge, etc (b) Each member of the Board including the Chairman will be asked to assign marks for each category immediately after a candidate is interviewed and before the next candidate is called in. To strike some commonality or relative parity in approach of members, the board may have some general discussion before commencement of interview on range of marks to be given for a particular level of assessment. If necessary, some written guidelines may also be circulated to be adhered to in assigning marks at the time of interview. (c) At the end of each day’s interview, the tabulator will convert the numerical marks assigned to each category into grades and then to grade values. This will then be totalled up and the Cumulative Grade Value Average of each candidate interviewed will be obtained.” 32. As rightly noted above, the English-speaking urban candidates could possibly be at an advantage compared to those from a rural background and those belonging to marginalized communities.