The prosecution also established that the deceased was done to death by violence in the said intervening night and that the accused appellant had absconded to flee from justice which established his guilty conduct. 17. The accused appellant has challenged the above affirming his conviction and sentence through this appeal by special leave. 322 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Submissions on behalf of the appellant: - 18. Learned legal aid counsel appointed by Supreme Court Legal Services Committee (SCLSC) for representing the appellant advanced extensive submissions to assail the impugned . He urged that:- (i) The trial Court as well as the High Court committed grave factual error in holding that complainant Ashok Kumar Pathak was examined on oath in proceedings under Section 299 CrPC. As per learned counsel, this finding is totally contrary to the record because the statement of complainant Ashok Kumar Pathak relied upon by the trial Court and the High Court is actually the statement of the said witness recorded by the SHO, PS Bhajan Pura under Section 161 CrPC which was proved by the Investigating Officer (PW-13) in proceedings under Section 299 CrPC. (ii) The confession note (Exhibit PW-12/E) is a fabricated piece of evidence because the prosecution did not make any endeavour to get the two admitted documents (Exhibit PW-12/C and PW- 12/D) collected from the employer of the accused appellant, i.e., Sanjiv Jain (PW-8) compared with the confession note (Exhibit PW-12/E). This contention was made without prejudice to the plea that the very process of collecting these documents is under a cloud of doubt because the Investigating Officer (PW- 13) could not have had any idea that the accused had worked in M/s. R.P. Associates. (iii) The handwriting expert’s report (Exhibit PW-12/F) and the testimony of the handwriting expert (PW-24) is not reliable, since the expert did not give any opinion after comparing the admitted writings (Exhibit PW-12/C and PW-12/D) (seized from the employer of the accused appellant) with the confession note (Exhibit PW-12/E). (iv) Without prejudice to the above, learned counsel submitted that from a visual comparison of the confession note (PW-12/E) and the specimen handwritings of the accused (Exhibit PW-5/D, PW-5/E and PW-5/F), it would become clear that there is no similarity whatsoever in the two sets of handwritings so as to conclude with any degree of certainty that the scribe of these [2024] 6 S.C.R. 323 Sukhpal Singh v. NCT of Delhi documents was one and the same. He thus urged that the report (Exhibit PW-12/F) of the handwriting expert (PW-24) is unreliable and cannot be pressed into service for affirming the guilt of the accused. (v) He urged that the evidence of Sudha (PW-10) is totally unreliable and not trustworthy and deserves to be discarded. It was admitted by the prosecution that the accused appellant and Usha had divorced each other and thus it is totally unbelievable that the accused appellant had come and stayed with Usha, few days before the incident as claimed by Sudha (PW-10).