The relevant observations are reproduced hereinbelow: “29. Last but not the least, we must also note that our jurisdiction comes from section 62 of the Code. The said section reads as under: “62. (1) Any person aggrieved by an of the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal may file an appeal to the Supreme Court on a question of law arising out of such under this Code within forty-five days from the date of receipt of such ”. 30. The jurisdiction is restricted to a question of law akin to a second appeal. The law does not envisage unlimited tiers of scrutiny and every tier of scrutiny has its own parameters. Thus, the lis inter se the parties has to be analysed within the four corners of the ambit of the statutory jurisdiction conferred on this court. 2108 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 31. We are thus of the view that the appeal does not raise any such question of law and that the findings of the courts below are in accordance with settled principles.” (emphasis supplied) 86. Section 100 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 is the provision related to a second appeal and it reads as thus: “100. Second appeal – (1) Save as otherwise expressly provided in the body of this Code or by any other law for the time being in force, an appeal shall lie to the High Court from every decree passed in appeal by any Court subordinate to the High Court, if the High Court is satisfied that the case involves a substantial question of law. (2) An appeal may lie under this section from an appellate decree passed ex parte. (3) In an appeal under this section, the memorandum of appeal shall precisely state the substantial question of law involved in the appeal. (4)Where the High Court is satisfied that a substantial question of law is involved in any case, it shall formulate that question. (5)The appeal shall be heard on the question so formulated and the respondent shall, at the hearing of the appeal, be allowed to argue that the case does not involve such question: Provided that nothing in this sub-section shall be deemed to take away or abridge the power of the Court to hear, for reasons to be recorded, the appeal on any other substantial question of law, not formulated by it, if it is satisfied that the case involves such question.” (emphasis supplied) 87. This Court in Chandrabhan (Deceased) Through Lrs. And Others v. Saraswati and Others reported in 2022 SCC OnLine SC 1273 explained as to what constitutes a “substantial question of law” under Section 100 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908. The relevant observations made are reproduced hereinbelow: [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2109 State Bank of India & Ors. v. The Consortium of Mr. Murari Lal Jalan and Mr. Florian Fritsch & Anr. “33. The principles relating to Section 100 of the CPC relevant for this case may be summarised thus: (i) An inference of fact from the recitals or contents of a document is a question of fact.