459 Association for Democratic Reforms & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. Though the identity of the person or entity purchasing the bearer bond will be known because of the Know Your Customer requirement, the identities of the intervening persons/entities will not be known. This would impact the principles of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act 2002; and The intention of introducing electoral bonds can be accomplished by cheque, demand draft, and electronic and digital payments. There is no special need for introducing a new bearer bond in the form of electoral bonds. 18. On 30 January 2017, the Finance Ministry responded to the observations of RBI and stated that: a. RBI has not understood the core purpose of electoral bonds which is to keep the identity of the donor secret while at the same time ensuring that the donation is only made from tax paid money; and The fear that electoral bonds might be used as currency is unfounded because there is a time limit for redeeming the bonds. 19. By a letter dated 4 August 2017, the Deputy Governor of the RBI stated that India can consider issuing the electoral bonds on a transitional basis through the RBI under the existing provisions of Section 31(1) of the RBI Act. The RBI recommended the incorporation of the following safeguards to minimize the inherent scope of misuse of the bonds for undesirable activities: a. The electoral bonds may have a maximum tenure of fifteen days; b. The electoral bonds can be purchased for any value in multiples of a thousand, ten thousand, or a lakh of rupees; The purchase of electoral bonds would be allowed from a KYC compliant bank account of the purchaser; The electoral bonds can be redeemed only upon being deposited into the designated bank account of an eligible political party; The sale of electoral bonds will be open only for a limited period, may be twice a year for seven days each; and The electoral bonds will be issued only at RBI, Mumbai. 22 “KYC” 460 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 20. The draft of the Electoral Bond Scheme was circulated to the RBI for its comments. The draft conferred notified scheduled commercial banks, apart from the RBI, with the power to issue electoral bonds. The RBI objected to the draft Scheme by a letter dated 14 September 2017. The RBI stated that permitting a commercial bank to issue bonds would “have an adverse impact on public perception about the Scheme, as also the credibility of India’s financial system in general and the central bank in particular.” The RBI again flagged the possibility of shell companies misusing bearer bonds for money laundering transactions. The RBI recommended that electoral bonds may be issued in electronic form because it would (a) reduce the risk of their being used for money laundering; (b) reduce the cost; and (c) be more secure. 21. The Electoral Bond Scheme was placed for deliberation and guidance by the RBI before the Committee of the Central Board.