It was pointed out that the limitation of the membership to the ‘Court’ [which is the supreme governing body] to Muslims is a significant aspect in that regard. 216. It was highlighted that the Chancellor, Pro-Chancellor, and Vice- Chancellor, being ex-officio members of the ‘Court’, had to be from the minority community. It was pointed out that the powers vested in the Court to appoint university officers and frame statutes for the Executive and Academic Councils, and the predominance of Muslims in elected university positions. It was pointed out that additionally, the Act did not require the submission and approval of certain statutes dealing with Muslim education. It was pointed out that the presence of non-Muslims in governing bodies does not diminish the minority character of the university, citing legal precedents. It was pointed out that powers vested in the Lord Rector and the Visiting Board under the Act do not affect the university’s minority character and are merely ‘regulatory’ or ‘supervisory’ in nature as would be in case of even present-day Universities and their ‘Chancellors’. 217. The parties defending the of the High Court pointed out that the 1920 Act provides for government control over the AMU by controlling, inter alia, the appointment of important office holders, the composition of administrative bodies, the rule making power of the university etc. It was pointed out that the Governor General-in- Counsel was appointing authority at the time of inception for the high positions of Chancellor, Pro-Chancellor, and Vice-Chancellor. It was pointed out that powers of the University had 12 sub-clauses, all of which were secular expect for one. It was pointed out that the admissions in the University at the time of inception were made on secular lines. It was pointed out that First Statutes of the University were framed not by the ‘Court’ but by the British Indian Legislature and the First Ordinances of the University at the time of inception were also not framed by the minority rather were framed by the non-minority authority of the Governor General-in-Council. It was pointed out that Lord Rector had wide ranging powers and it was the British Indian authorities that had effective, de-facto, policy level control over the AMU and not the minority community at the time of establishment. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2017 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. 218. It is critical to note that the 1920 Act and the nature thereof, also bestows the AMU with its character at the time of inception. The said character at the time of inception would be useful in ascertaining if the institution was predominantly established for the minority community with a ‘sprinkling of outsiders’ or not. It may be noted that merely having a faculty or a portion thereof dedicated to a religious discipline would not bestow a larger public entity like a University, with its character. The leading Universities of the world today have faculties for religious studies and enquiry5. The said faculties are genuine centres of intellectual and theological enquiry and would also interest persons from other religions in numerous cases.