Whether the fundamental right to informational privacy recognized by this Court in PJusuticte KtS aswam(y93) v. Union of India’, includes information about a citizen’s political affiliation; and b. If (a) above is answered in the affirmative, whether financial contribution to a political party is a facet of political affiliation. If the right to informational privacy extends to financial contributions to a political party, this Court needs to decide if the Electoral Bond 147 [20110 S7CR ]56 9 : (2017) 10 SCC 1 [2024] 2 S.C.R. 519 Association for Democratic Reforms & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. Scheme adequately balances the right to information and right to informational privacy of political affiliation. I. Informational privacy of financial contributions to political parties 132. In JusKS tPutitascwamye ( 9J) (Supra), a nine-Judge Bench of this Court held that the Constitution guarantees the right to privacy. This Court traced the right to privacy to the constitutional ideals of dignity, liberty, and the thread of non-arbitrariness that runs through the provisions of Part Ill. The scope of the right to privacy discussed in JusKS tPutitascwamye ( 9J) (supra) is summarized below: a. Theright to privacy includes “repose”, that is, the freedom from unwanted stimuli, “sanctuary”, the protection against intrusive observation into intimate decisions and autonomy with respect to personal choices; b. Privacy over intimate decisions includes decisions related to the mind and body. Privacy extends to both the decision and the process of arriving at the decision. A lack of privacy over thought (which leads to decision-making) would suppress voices and lead to homogeneity which is contrary to the values that the Constitution espouses"*®; c. Privacy over decisions and choices would enable the exercise of fundamental freedoms such as the freedom of thought, expression, and association freely without coercion;'*9 d. Privacy is attached to a person and not a space. The scope of privacy cannot be restricted only to the “private” space; and e. Privacy includes informational privacy. Information which may seem inconsequential in silos can be used to influence decision making behavior when aggregated. '* ° 133. The content of privacy is not limited to “private” actions and decisions such as the choice of a life partner, procreation and sexuality. Neither is privacy merely defined from the point of direct State intrusion. 148 Justice Chandrachud (Paragraph 168), Justice Kaul (Paragraph 19) 149 Justice Chandrachud, Justice Chellameshwar, Justice Bobde (paragraph 25 and 29) 150 Justice Chandrachud (paragraph 170): “[...] Individually, these information silos may seem inconsequential. In aggregation, they disclose the nature of the personality: food habits, language, health, hobbies, sexual preferences, friendships, ways of dress and political affiliation. Justice Chelameshwar (Paragraph 38), Justice Kaul (Paragaph 19) [2024] 2 S.C.R. 520 Digital Supreme Court Reports Privacy is defined as essential protection for the exercise and development of other freedoms protected by the Constitution, and from direct or indirect influence by both State and non-State actors. Viewed in this manner, privacy takes within its fold, decisions which also have a ‘public component’. 134. The expression of political beliefs is guaranteed under Article 19(1) (a).