26 [1952] 1 SCR 28 : (1951) SCC 1024 362 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 34. We consider it apposite to refer to a three-Judge Bench decision of this Court in Hope Plantations Ltd. v. Taluk Land Board,27 where the principle of issue estoppel was expounded thus: “26. It is settled law that the principles of estoppel and res judicata are based on public policy and justice. Doctrine of res judicata is often treated as a branch of the law of estoppel though these two doctrines differ in some essential particulars. Rule of res judicata prevents the parties to a judicial determination from litigating the same question over again even though the determination may even be demonstratedly wrong. When the proceedings have attained finality, parties are bound by the and are estopped from questioning it. They cannot litigate again on the same cause of action nor can they litigate any issue which was necessary for decision in the earlier litigation. These two aspects are ‘cause of action estoppel’ and ‘issue estoppel’. These two terms are of common law origin. Again, once an issue has been finally determined, parties cannot subsequently in the same suit advance arguments or adduce further evidence directed to showing that the issue was wrongly determined. Their only remedy is to approach the higher forum if available. The determination of the issue between the parties gives rise to, as noted above, an issue estoppel. It operates in any subsequent proceedings in the same suit in which the issue had been determined. It also operates in subsequent suits between the same parties in which the same issue arises. Section 11 of the Code of Civil Procedure contains provisions of res judicata but these are not exhaustive of the general doctrine of res judicata. Legal principles of estoppel and res judicata are equally applicable in proceedings before administrative authorities as they are based on public policy and justice.” (emphasis supplied) 27 [1998] Supp. 2 SCR 514 : (1999) 5 SCC 590 [2024] 11 S.C.R. 363 The Madhya Pradesh Madhya Kshetra Vidyut Vitran Company Limited & Ors. v. Bapuna Alcobrew Private Limited & Anr. 35. Another bench of three Judges of this Court in Bhanu Kumar Jain v. Archana Kumar 28 had the occasion to survey several decisions of English courts and explained that there was a distinction between res judicata and issue estoppel in the following words: “30. Res judicata debars a court from exercising its jurisdiction to determine the lis if it has attained finality between the parties whereas the doctrine issue estoppel is invoked against the party. If such an issue is decided against him, he would be estopped from raising the same in the latter proceeding. ***” (emphasis supplied) 36. To recount, the of the High Court dated 14th February, 2001, though interim in the sense that it disposed of an interlocutory application, was a conclusive determination of the issue raised by the first respondent itself and which went against it. The first and second show cause notices were similarly worded and identical in the demands that they raised on the first respondent.