Digital Supreme Court Reports (n) that the premises have not been used without reasonable cause for the purpose for which they were let for a continuous period of six months immediately preceding the date of the suit. (2) No decree for eviction shall be passed on the ground specified in clause (g) of subsection (1), if the court is satisfied that, having regard to all the circumstances of the case including the question whether other reasonable accommodation is available for the landlord or the tenant, greater hardship would be caused by passing the decree than by refusing to pass it. Where the court is satisfied that no hardship would be caused either to the tenant or to the landlord by passing the decree in respect of a part of the premises, the court shall pass the decree in respect of such part only. Explanation. - For the purposes of clause (g) of sub-section (1), the expression “landlord” shall not include a rent-farmer or rent-collector or estate-manager. (3) A landlord shall not be entitled to recover possession of any premises under the provisions of clause (g) of sub-section (1), if the premises are let to the Central Government in a cantonment area, and such premises are being used for residence by members of the armed forces of the Union. or their families. (4) The court may pass the decree on the ground specified in clause (h) or (i) of subsection (1) only in respect of a part of the premises which in its opinion it is necessary to vacate for carrying out the work of repair or erection. (5) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, an assignment of a decree for eviction obtained on the grounds specified in clauses (g), (h), (i) and (j) of sub-section (1) shall be unlawful. (6) No decree for eviction shall be passed on the ground specified in clause (i) or (j) of sub-section (1), unless the court is satisfied- [2024] 1 S.C.R. 1117 Baitulla Ismail Shaikh and Anr. v. Khatija Ismail Panhalkar and Ors. (a) that the necessary funds for the purpose of the erection of new building or for erecting or raising of a new floor or floors on the terrace are available with the landlord, (b) that the plans and estimates for the new building or new floor or floors have been properly prepared; (c) that the new building or new floor or floors to be erected by the landlord shall, subject to the provisions of any rules, bye-laws or regulations made by municipal authority contain residential tenements not less than the number of existing tenements which are sought to be demolished; (d) that the landlord has given an undertaking.- (i) that the plans and estimates for the new building or new floor or floors to be erected by the landlord include premises for each tenant with carpet area equivalent to the area of the premises in his occupation in the building sought to be demolished subject to a variation of five per cent in area; (ii) that the premises specified in sub-clause (i) will be offered to the concerned tenant or tenants in the re-erected building or, as the case may be, on the new floor or floors; (iii) that where the carpet area of premises in the new building or on the new floor or floors is more than the carpet area specified in sub-clause (i) the landlord shall, without prejudice to the liability of the landlord under sub-clause (i), obtain the consent ‘in writing’ of the tenant or tenants concerned to accept the premises with larger area; and on the tenant or tenants declining to give such consent the landlord shall be entitled to put the additional floor area to any permissible use; (iv) that the work of demolishing the premises shall be commenced by the landlord not later than one month, and shall be completed not later than three months, from the date he recovers possession of the entire premises; and 1118 [2024] 1 S.C.R.