However, leamed counsel conceded that there is no ultimate conclusion in the investigation reached so far. Thus, we are of the opinion that until and unless there is a finding recorded by the competent court as to invoicing, the submission cannot be accepted. At this stage, it cannot be said that there is over-invoicing. We have examined the case on merits with abundant caution, and we find that there are concurrent findings of facts recorded by the RERC and the APTEL. With respect to the aspect that bid was premised on domestic coal, we find that findings recorded do not call for any interference.” 5. The applicant had filed contempt proceedings alleging disobedience of the said and , which were registered as Contempt Petition (C) Nos. 877-878 of 2021. We have already referred to this proceeding. In the contempt proceeding, the applicant’s position gets reflected in the submissions of its learned senior counsel, recorded in paragraph 6 of the passed on 25.02.2022 (One of us, Aniruddha Bose, J., was a party to this ). The relevant portion of that is reproduced below:- “6. Shri Abhishek Manu Singhvi, learned Senior Counsel appearing for the petitioner has submitted that the only dispute which was to be resolved by RERC, APTEL and this Court was with regard to the payment due because of “change in law”, which was held to be the actual landed cost of alternate coal/imported coal as certified by the auditor minus landed cost of domestic linkage coal. There was no other dispute which was to be resolved by this Court. Learned Senior Counsel has submitted that it is now contended by the respondents that certain payments have been made by the respondents which, according to the learned Senior Counsel, was towards regular payment on the basis of domestic linkage coal and nothing else. Since, the “change in law” ground of the petitioner has been [2024] 3 S.C.R. 1033 Jaipur Vidyut Vitran Nigam Ltd. & Ors. v. Adani Power Rajasthan Ltd. & Anr. accepted by all the authorities i.e. RERC, APTEL and this Court and also confirmed by the dismissal of the Review Petition filed before this Court, the question cannot now be reopened at this stage. It is, thus, submitted that since the actual landed cost of alternate coal/imported coal as was submitted by the petitioner has been duly certified by the auditors, which has not been disputed by the respondents, the payment, as claimed, ought to have been made and since the same has not been paid, the respondents are liable for contempt. The further contention of the learned Senior Counsel of the petitioner is that the claim of the respondents that they had paid certain amount towards energy charges regularly month by month, which included certain amount of price of alternate coal/imported coal charges cannot be accepted, as at that stage i.e. in the year 2013, the respondents had not accepted the claim of the petitioner with regard to “change in law”, and the assertion now being made by the respondents that they had paid certain amount after partially accepting the “change in law” theory cannot be accepted, as this issue had never been raised by respondents in any proceedings earlier, as the respondents had, in fact, throughout contested that the petitioner is not entitled to the “change in law” benefit.” 6.