This was impugned in Civil Appeal Nos. 3291-3294 of 2009. 7. All other appeals that are the subject matter of this group are preferred by the Revenue. These are the cases where the deduction of interest for the broken period was allowed. 8. The learned counsel appearing for the appellant in Civil Appeal Nos. 3291-3294 of 2009 and learned counsel representing the respondents/ Banks in other appeals have made extensive submissions. The submissions made by the learned counsel appearing for the assessees can be summarised as follows: a. Reliance was placed on a decision of the Bombay High Court in the case of American Express International Banking Corporation v. Commissioner of Income Tax & Anr.2 Learned counsel pointed out that in the said decision, the Bombay High Court distinguished the decision in the case of Vijaya Bank Ltd.1 by holding that in the case of Vijaya Bank Ltd.,1 the claim for deduction of interest on broken period was made under Sections 19 and 20 of the IT Act. This was done on the footing that the Department had brought to tax the interest accrued on the securities up to the date of purchase as “interest on securities” under Section 18. It was held that the decision in the case of Vijaya Bank Ltd.1 will not apply to the cases post- repeal of Sections 18 to 21 of the IT Act. In the said case, the amount of interest was brought into tax under Section 28. 2 (2002) 258 ITR 601 (Bombay) : 2002 SCC OnLine Bom 944 [2024] 10 S.C.R. 865 Bank of Rajasthan Ltd. v. Commissioner of Income Tax b. The learned counsel appearing for the assessees pointed out that the view taken by the Bombay High Court in the case of American Express International Banking Corporation2 has been approved by the dated 12th August 2008 of this Court in the case of Commissioner of Income Tax, Bombay v. Citi Bank NA.3 The learned counsel pointed out that this Court affirmed the decision of the Bombay High Court in the case of Citi Bank NA,3 which in turn relied upon its earlier decision in the case of American Express International Banking Corporation.2 c. Our attention was also invited to a decision by this Court in the case of Commissioner of Income Tax, Andhra Pradesh, Hyderabad v. The Cocanada Radhaswami Bank Ltd., Kakinada.4 Inviting our attention to the said decision, it is pointed out that this Court accepted that the securities held by Banking companies are held as stock-in-trade. He pointed out that this Court, in the case of United Commercial Bank Ltd.; Calcutta v. Commissioner of Income Tax, West Bengal,5 held that government securities are held as stock-in-trade by Banking companies. He submitted that the assessee pays interest for the broken period to which he is not entitled as after the purchase, when the interest becomes due, the assessee gets income for the entire period even covering the interest payable before the date on which the assessee makes the acquisition.