(3) If any question arises as to the age of a Judge of a High Court, the question shall be decided by the President after consultation with the Chief Justice of India and the decision of the President shall be final. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1049 Justice Shailendra Singh & Ors. v. Union of India & Ors. (2) Every Judge shall be entitled to such allowances and to such rights in respect of leave of absence and pension as may from time to time be determined by or under law made by Parliament and, until so determined, to such allowances and rights as are specified in the Second Schedule: Provided that neither the allowances of a Judge nor his rights in respect of leave of absence or pension shall be varied to his disadvantage after his appointment.” 11. Clause (1) of Article 221 was substituted by the Constitution (54th Amendment) Act 1986. Prior to its substitution, Clause (1) stipulated that there shall be paid to the judges of each High Court, such salaries as are specified in the Second Schedule. By the substitution of Clause (1), the salaries which are payable to Judges of the High Court are determined by Parliament by law and until such determination is made, were to be governed by the salaries specified in the Second Schedule. Clause (2) of Article 221 provides that every Judge shall be entitled to allowances and to such rights in respect of leave of absence and pension, as may be determined by law made by Parliament from time to time. The proviso to Clause (2), however, contains a guarantee that neither the allowances nor the rights of a Judge in respect of leave of absence or pension would be varied to their disadvantage after their appointment. 12. Article 202(3) provides for expenditures which should be charged on the Consolidated Fund of each State. Sub-clause (d) stipulates that expenditure in respect of the salaries and allowances of Judges of a High Court would fall in that category.5 However, Article 112(3)(d) (iii) stipulates that the pensions payable to or in respect of Judges of any High Court which exercises jurisdiction in relation to any area included, inter alia, in the territory of India would be charged to the Consolidated Fund of India.6 5 202 Annual financial statement (3) The following expenditure shall be expenditure charged on the Consolidated Fund of each State— … (d) expenditure in respect of the salaries and allowances of Judges of any High Court 6 112 Annual financial statement (3) The following expenditure shall be expenditure charged on the Consolidated Fund of India— … (d)(i) the salaries, allowances and pensions payable to or in respect of Judges of the Supreme Court, 1050 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 13. The constitutional scheme for High Court Judges is unique in that the salaries and allowances payable to Judges of the High Court which are determined by a law enacted by Parliament are charged to the Consolidated Fund of each State under Article 202(3)(d).