Statements under Section 164 of the Code were recorded before the Magistrate. That apart, the statements are corroborated by material evidence or by statement of other witnesses. Reliance is placed upon Section 145 of the Evidence Act which permits cross- examination of witnesses on previous statements made by them. 53. At this juncture, we would like to reiterate and clarify that we are not deciding an appeal against an rejecting the prayer/application 2410 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports for grant of bail under Section 45 of the PML Act. We are examining the question of the legality of arrest of Arvind Kejriwal on 21.03.2024. While doing so, we would be exercising the power of judicial review and not merit based review. 54. We must also state that the DoE in their additional note filed before us has referred to certain retrieved WhatsApp chats which, as per the allegation made, show that Arvind Kejriwal was known to Vinod Chauhan, who was involved in the hawala transfer of money through Angadiyas from Mumbai to Goa. These chats were retrieved after the arrest of Arvind Kejriwal and is not mentioned in the “reasons to believe”. Thus, it cannot be examined by us to determine the validity of the arrest in terms of Section 19(1) of the PML Act. 55. The legality of the “reasons to believe” have to be examined based on what is mentioned and recorded therein and the material on record. However, the officer acting under Section 19(1) of the PML Act cannot ignore or not consider the material which exonerates the arrestee. Any such non-consideration would lead to difficult and unacceptable results. First, it would negate the legislative intent which imposes stringent conditions. As a general rule of interpretation, penal provisions must be interpreted strictly.49 Secondly, any undue indulgence and latitude to the DoE will be deleterious to the constitutional values of rule of law and life and liberty of persons. An officer cannot be allowed to selectively pick and choose material implicating the person to be arrested. They have to equally apply their mind to other material which absolves and exculpates the arrestee. The power to arrest under Section 19(1) of the PML Act cannot be exercised as per the whims and fancies of the officer. 49 See Vijay Madanlal Choudhary (supra) at paragraph 31 – “The ‘proceeds of crime’ being the core of the ingredients constituting the offence of money-laundering, that expression needs to be construed strictly. In that, all properties recovered or attached by the investigating agency in connection with the criminal activity relating to a scheduled offence under the general law cannot be regarded as proceeds of crime. There may be cases where the property involved in the commission of scheduled offence attached by the investigating agency dealing with that offence, cannot be wholly or partly regarded as proceeds of crime within the meaning of section 2(1)(u) of the 2002 Act—so long as the whole or some portion of the property has been derived or obtained by any person ‘as a result of’ criminal activity relating to the stated scheduled offence…” Also see M. Ravindran v. Intelligence Officer, Directorate of Revenue Intelligence, (2021) 2 SCC 485 at paragraph 17.9.