It is incorrect that I had taken the signature of accused at Mungeli police station. Accused have given the statement at Kunda police station, in front of me. Apart from the accused we were 5-6 other family members in the Police station Kunda. The police took the statement at around 12 o’clock. ………….. 14. We have reached Bhatgaon at 4.30-5. And reached Mungeli before sunset. It is incorrect to· say that the police have taken my signature Witness itself states that I have signed in Bhatgaon. It is incorrect to say that I did not read the papers before signing them. Witness says that the I have read the main part. It is incorrect to say that I 572 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports am seeing accused for the first time today. It is incorrect to say that I know accused by name only, witness states that I know him by face also. It is incorrect to say that the name of the accused was revealed by my brother-in-:law and Narendra it was told by the police.” 16. It is to be noted that Ramkumar (PW-5) is the brother-in-law of the deceased. A perusal of his evidence would reveal that he has admitted that, on his arrival in village Kunda, he was informed by his brother- in-law and nephew Narendra Kumar (PW-2) about the murder of the deceased which was done by the accused persons. He stated that, by that time they had not reached the spot and that is why they were not aware as to whether it was the body of Dharmendra or not. He further admitted that when they reached Bhatgaon, many people of the village were there. He has also admitted that because of the dead body, many people were there. He has further admitted that the accused persons had given their statements at Kunda police station. He has further admitted that they had reached Bhatgaon at around 04:30 pm to 05:00 pm and had reached Mungeli before sunset. He has also stated that he had signed the panchnama at Bhatgaon. 17. It could thus be seen that, according to this witness (PW-5), though the statement was taken at Kunda, it was signed at Bhatgaon. 18. Ajab Singh (PW-18) is another witness on the memorandum recorded under Section 27 of the Evidence Act and the subsequent recovery of the dead body. He states that Ravishankar informed the police that Dharmendra had been killed and thrown into the pond. However, he states in examination-in-chief that Umend and Dinesh did not tell anything to the police in front of him. It will be relevant to refer to his cross-examination, which reads thus: “4. It is true that I used to work as Kotwari. It is true that I did not have read the paper. It is true that I had signed 3-4 papers on the instructions of the police. It is true that due to being Kotwar had to visit police station regularly. It is true that I signed on documents on the instructions of the police.