(q) to constitute a committee at district level consisting of not less than three members for education up to Tahtania or Faukania standard, to delegate such committee the power of giving recognition to the educational institutions under its control. (r) to take all such steps as may be necessary or convenient for or as may be incidental to the exercise of any power, or the performance or discharge of any function or duty, conferred or imposed on it by this Act.” 384 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 18. Section 10 pertains to the ‘Powers of the Board’. Sub-section (1) defines these powers in general terms and stipulates that the Board shall have all such powers as may be necessary for the performance of its functions and the discharge of its duties under the Madarsa Act or the allied rules and regulations. Sub-section (2) details specific powers of the Board, without prejudice to the generality of the powers of the Board detailed in sub-section (1). These powers inter alia include the power to cancel or withhold the result of an examination, prescribe fees for the examinations conducted, refuse recognition of an institution, call for reports from and inspect institutions to ensure compliance with the prescribed rules and regulations and fix the maximum number of students to be admitted to a course. Sub-section (3) clarifies that the decision of the Board with regard to the matters dealt with in this provision shall be final. Section 11 allows the Board, to recognize an institution “in any new subject or group of subjects for a higher class”, with the prior approval of the State government. Section 12 deals with the proper utilization of donations by the institutions. 19. Section 13 details the ‘Power of the State Government’ to inter alia issue directions and s which are binding on the Board. Sub- section (1) states that the State Government shall have the right to address and to communicate its views to the Board on any matter with which it is concerned. Sub-section (2) requires the Board to report to the State Government if any action has been taken pursuant to the communications or proposals made by the State Government. Sub-section (3) stipulates that in circumstances where the Board does not act within a reasonable time to the satisfaction of the State Government, after considering the explanation or representation by the Board, the State Government may issue necessary directions with which the Board shall comply. Sub-section (4) states that in cases, where the State Government is of the opinion that it is necessary or expedient to take immediate action, it may, without making any reference to the Board, pass an or take other action consistent with the Act, including modifying, rescinding or making any regulation. Sub-section (5) stipulates that such actions by the State Government shall not be called into question in any court. 20. Section 14 deals with officers and other employees of the Board and provides that they are appointed by the Board, with the prior approval of the State Government.