Without prejudice to the factor of materiality or other provisions contained in this Agreement, the obligation to inform the Procurer contained herein shall be material. Provided that in case the Seller has not provided such notice, the Procurer shall have the right to issue such notice to the Seller. 13.3.3 Any notice served pursuant to this Article 13.3.2 shall provide, amongst other things, precise details of: (a) the Change in Law; and (b) the effects on the Seller of the matters referred to in Article 13.2. 13.4. Tariff Adjustment Payment on account of Change in Law 13.4.1 Subject to Article 13.2., the adjustment in Monthly Tariff Payment shall be effective from: (i) the date of adoption, promulgation, amendment, re- enactment or repeal of the Law or Change in Law; or (ii) the date of / of the Competent Court or tribunal of Indian Governmental Instrumentality, if the Change in Law is on account of a change in interpretation of Law. 13.4.2 The payment for Changes in Law shall be through Supplementary Bill as mentioned in Article 11.8. However, in case of any change in Tariff by reason of Change in Law, as determined in accordance with this Agreement, the Monthly Invoice to be raised by the Seller after such change in Tariff shall appropriately reflect the changed Tariff.” [2024] 11 S.C.R. 477 Nabha Power Limited & Anr. v. Punjab State Power Coroporation Limited & Anr. 41. The golden rule of interpretation is that the words of a contract should be construed in their grammatical and ordinary sense, except to the extent that some modification is necessary in to avoid absurdity, inconsistency or repugnancy. (See para 5.01 Kim Lewison, The interpretation of Contracts, 3rd Edition). Similarly, any invocation of the business efficacy test as canvassed would arise only if the terms of the contract are not explicit and clear. The business efficacy test cannot contradict any express term of the contract and is invoked only if by a plain and literal interpretation of the term in the agreement or the contract, it is not possible to achieve the result or the consequence intended by the parties acting as prudent businessmen. [See Nabha Power Limited (NPL) vs. Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) and Another (2018) 11 SCC 508 (para 49) and Adani Power (Mundra) Limited vs. Gujarat Electricity Regulatory Commission and Others (2019) 19 SCC 9 (para 24). 42. The law as defined in Clause 1.1 was validly promulgated vide the notification of 01.03.2002 and the policy document dated 07.08.2006. The appellant seeks to contend that the press release of 01.10.2009 announcing the Cabinet decision approving the modified Mega Power Policy as envisaged tantamounts to “law” as defined in Clause 1.1 of the Request For Proposal. The appellant contends that qua the Power Purchase Agreement (PPA), the press release of 01.10.2009 would be an and covered by the phrase “and shall include all applicable rules, regulations, s, notifications by an Indian Governmental Instrumentality”. We are unable to accept this submission. First of all, the commonly understood meaning of the word “” as defined in Black’s Law Dictionary is as follows:- “ – A command, direction or instruction.