747 Rajendra S/o Ramdas Kolhe v. State of Maharashtra had told her husband that she was not paying the salary for which Rekha was abused and assaulted. In the statement under Section 161 Cr.P.C., it was also not recorded that Rekha was selected for the police sports competition on 14.07.2022. The statement made by him that Rekha’s husband i.e. the appellant had closed her mouth by one hand and poured kerosene by the other hand, was also found not mentioned in the Section 161 statement. However, he stated that PW-6 Assistant Sub Inspector Dake had recorded the statement of Rekha in detail in the hospital when PW-2 was present. 11. PW-3 Kausalyabai is the mother of the deceased Rekha. She stated that after marriage, Rekha was properly treated by her husband and other in-laws for about 15 days. Thereafter, they started ill-treating her on the ground that she did not part with her salary. Her elder daughter Shyamla had telephoned her and told her that Rekha was set on fire by her husband Rajendra and her brother-in-law Suresh. She came to the hospital at Ambajogai along with her son and daughter-in-law and met Rekha. Rekha told PW-3 that her husband and brother-in-law had poured kerosene and set her on fire. At that time, her mother-in-law, father-in-law and sister-in-law were present. Rekha had told her that her neighbours had shifted her to the hospital while her husband and in-laws fled away. 11.1. In her cross-examination, she stated that police had recorded her statement after the death of Rekha. She acknowledged that police had not recorded in her Section 161 statement that her daughter Rekha was subjected to cruelty by her husband and in-laws; and on the day of the incident, she was confined to the house. It was also not recorded that accused Rajendra and Suresh had set her on fire by pouring kerosene. She had not stated before the police when Rekha’s husband and brother-in-law had set her on fire; that father-in-law and sister-in-law were also present and that all of them ran away. According to her, though she had stated before the police that all the accused were present in the house and after setting Rekha on fire, all of them fled from the house, the same was not recorded. 12. Brother of the deceased, Milind, is PW-4. In his examination-in- chief, he stated that the in laws, brother-in-law and sister-in-law of 748 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports deceased Rekha had suspected her character. They used to incite the appellant about the character of the deceased and non-sharing of her salary with them. He stated that husband and brother-in-law of Rekha had killed her by setting her on fire. When he came to know about the incident, he alongwith his wife, children and mother came to Ambajogai on the same night i.e. on 22.07.2002 and met Rekha in the hospital. When he made enquiries with her, she told him that her husband and brother-in-law had set her on fire.