Later a Full Bench of five Judges of the same Court in the case of Teja Singh v. Union Territory of Chandigarh [AIR 1982 P&H 169; (1981) 1 SLR 274 : 84 Punj LR 160] held that in view of Rule 32 of the Writ Rules framed by the High Court under Article 225 of the Constitution which provided that in all matters in which no provision had been made by those Rules, the provisions of Civil Procedure Code shall apply mutatis mutandis insofar as they were not inconsistent with those Rules the explanation which had been added to Section 141 of the Code by the aforesaid Amending Act, did not in any way nullify the effect of Rule 32 of the Writ Rules. Rule 32 of the Writ Rules is as follows: “32. In all matters for which no provision is made in these rules, the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, shall apply mutatis mutandis insofar as they are not inconsistent with these rules.” 10. On a plain reading, Section 141 of the Code provides that the procedure provided in the said Code in regard to suits shall be followed “as far as it can be made applicable, in all proceedings”. In other words, it is open to make the procedure provided in the said Code in regard to suits applicable to any other proceeding in any court of civil jurisdiction. The explanation which was added is more or less in the nature of proviso, saying that the expression ‘proceedings’ shall not include any proceeding under Article 226 of the Constitution. The necessary corollary thereof shall be that it shall be open to make applicable the procedure provided in the Code to any proceeding in any court of civil jurisdiction except to proceedings under Article 226 of the Constitution. Once the proceeding under Article 226 of the Constitution has been excluded from the expression ‘proceedings’ occurring in Section 141 of the Code by the explanation, how on basis of Section 141 of the Code any procedure provided in the Code can be made applicable to a proceeding under Article 226 of the Constitution? In this background, how merely on basis of Writ Rule 32 the provisions of the Code shall be 518 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports applicable to writ proceedings? Apart from that, Section 141 of the Code even in respect of other proceedings contemplates that the procedure provided in the Code in regard to suits shall be followed “as far as it can be made applicable”. Rule 32 of Writ Rules does not specifically make provisions of Code applicable to petitions under Articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution. It simply says that in matters for which no provision has been made by those rules, the provisions of the Code shall apply mutatis mutandis insofar as they are not inconsistent with those rules. In the case of Rokyayabi v. Ismail Khan [AIR 1984 Kant 234 : (1984) 2 Kant LC 114] in view of Rule 39 of the writ proceedings rules as framed by the Karnataka High Court making the provisions of Code of Civil Procedure applicable to writ proceedings and writ appeals, it was held that the provisions of the Code were applicable to writ proceedings and writ appeals.