150/- each which cost her Rs. 1050/. The copy of all the Tickets are dated 15.04.2016 are annexed herewith and marked as Annexure ‘A’. *** 7. The Complainant states that, as the song was not shown in the entire movies the family members and in started teasing her that, why she planned for such a movie which is not having a single song and a song ‘Jabra Fan’ which become anthem is shown in promos of the film. She has gone through mental agony because of Respondents act.” It is evident from the above that the deficiency alleged in the complaint arises out of the complainant’s own expectation that the song would be a part of the movie. It is assumed that there is deficiency of service as the movie did not contain the song. 12. The fallacy in this argument is in assuming that a promotional trailer is an offer or a promise. It is under this misplaced assumption that the complainant has assumed that the subsequent formation of a contract to watch the movie is not in compliance with the promise allegedly made through the promotional trailer. We will explain this in terms of the law of contracts. 13. The essential element of an ‘offer’ or ‘proposal’ for the formation of a contract has not been satisfied in the present case. A person 152 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports makes an offer or ‘proposal’ when he signifies his willingness to do something with a view to obtain the assent of another person.9 When the other person signifies his assent, the proposal gets accepted and becomes a ‘promise’.10 A proposal is therefore a prerequisite to a ‘promise’ and a ‘contract’.11 14. A promotional trailer is unilateral. It is only meant to encourage a viewer to purchase the ticket to the movie, which is an independent transaction and contract from the promotional trailer. A promotional trailer by itself is not an offer and neither intends to nor can create a contractual relationship.12 Since the promotional trailer is not an offer, there is no possibility of it becoming a promise. Therefore, there is no offer, much less a contract, between the appellant and the complainant to the effect that the song contained in the trailer would be played in the movie and if not played, it will amount to deficiency in the service. The transaction of service is only to enable the complainant to watch the movie upon the payment of consideration in the form of purchase of the movie ticket. This transaction is unconnected to the promotional trailer, which by itself does not create any kind of right of claim with respect to the content of the movie. 15. Unfair Trade Practice: While we have held that no contract is formed on the basis of the promotional trailer and as such, there is no deficiency of service, there is a further question for our consideration, i.e., whether it is an ‘unfair trade practice’ giving rise to a cause of action.