It is submitted that, a perusal of the same would clearly reveal that at number of places, this Court has given findings which would show that the respondents have not been in a position to make out a prima facie case. Dr. Singhvi further submitted that a perusal of the record would reveal that even the investigation in the case is not complete. He therefore submitted that unless the investigation is complete, the trial cannot proceed. He submitted that three more supplementary complaints have been filed on 10th May 2024, 17th May 2024 and 20th June 2024 in the ED matter and as on 27th July 2024, there were 40 persons who have been arrayed as accused in the proceedings with more than 8 complaints. He further submitted that, in the ED matter, the ED has cited 224 witnesses and produced 32,000 pages of documents. He further submitted that, in the CBI matter, the CBI has cited 269 witnesses and produced around 37,000 pages of documents. It is therefore submitted that in all there are 493 witnesses, excluding the ones in the 4th Supplementary Charge-sheet filed by the CBI, who will have to be examined and that in total the documents are running into around 69,000 pages. 18. Dr. Singhvi submitted that the ED has deliberately concealed the documents it acquired during investigation by putting documents exculpating the accused persons in the category of “un-relied upon documents”. It is submitted that, as such, it was necessary for the appellant to inspect such “un-relied upon documents”. He further submitted that there was an inordinate delay on the part of the ED and the CBI in producing the list of “un-relied upon documents”. [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1069 Manish Sisodia v. Directorate of Enforcement 19. Dr. Singhvi submitted that, taking into consideration the voluminous number of witnesses and documents, there is no possibility of the trial seeing the light of the day and therefore the appeals filed by the appellant deserve to be allowed. 20. Shri Raju vehemently opposed the present appeals. He submitted that this Court, in its first , after enumerating various factors on merits of the matter in paragraph 25 has held that the Court was not inclined to accept the prayer for grant of bail. It is therefore submitted that the appeals of the present appellant on merits were specifically rejected. 21. Shri Raju further submitted that, though the Court granted liberty to file a fresh application in the circumstances enumerated in paragraph 29, it was held that the same would be considered by the trial court on merits without being influenced by the dismissal of the earlier bail applications including the said first . It is therefore submitted that the trial court as well as the High Court were required to take into consideration the merits of the matter. However, the present appellant opposed the consideration of the application on merits and insisted on consideration of the application only on the ground of delay in trial. It is therefore submitted that both the courts have rightly considered the merits of the matter and after considering the merits, found that the appellant was not entitled to grant of bail.