The Visa Manual, 2021 prescribes that it is important to cross-question the spouses separately to ascertain the genuineness of marriage. On the other hand, the Learned Counsel for the Respondent would argue that under certain conditions, it may not be necessary to produce the spouse. It is argued that it is only to ascertain the genuineness of marriage that physical/virtual present may be needed. 8. The statutory provisions concerning Overseas Citizen of India(OCI) Card are contained in Section 7A, 7B,7C and 7D of the Citizenship Amendment Act,1955(as amended in 2015). Though OCI Card holders remain citizens of their country, they enjoy certain privileges such as multiple-entry lifelong visa for visiting India for any purpose, exemption from registrations with the FRRO and FRO, parity with Non- Residential Indians(NRIs) in some aspects etc. Section 7A pertains to the ‘Registration of Overseas Citizen of India Cardholder’ whereas Section 7B covers the conferment of certain limited rights on OCI Card Holders. Section 7C deals with ‘Renunciation’ whereas Section 7D contains provisions regarding the ‘Cancellation of Registration’ as OCI Cardholder. Section 7A(1)(d) which is relevant for our purpose, reads as under: “7A. Registration of Overseas Citizen of India Cardholder- (1) The Central Government may, subject to such conditions, restrictions and manner as may be prescribed, on an application made in this behalf, register as an Overseas Citizen of India Cardholder— (a) ….. ….. (b) ….. ….. [2024] 8 S.C.R. 825 Union of India v. Bahareh Bakshi (c) ….. ….. (d) spouse of foreign origin of a citizen of India or spouse of foreign origin of an Overseas Citizen of India Cardholder registered under section 7A and whose marriage has been registered and subsisted for a continuous period of not less than two years immediately preceding the presentation of the application under this section: Provided that for the eligibility for registration as an Overseas Citizen of India Cardholder, such spouse shall be subjected to prior security clearance by a competent authority in India” 9. It is essential to note that the Central Government is empowered to register the foreign spouse of a citizen of India as an OCI holder “subject to such conditions, restrictions and manner as may be prescribed, on an application made in this behalf”. The proviso to Clause 7A(1)(d) also provides for ‘a prior security clearance’ by the competent authority for eligibility. 10. Such special privilege of an OCI Card may be withdrawn under Section 7D(f) which reads thus: “7D. The Central Government may, by , cancel the registration granted under sub-section (1) of section 7A, if it is satisfied that: ….. ….. ….. ….. ….. (f) the marriage of an Overseas Citizen of India Cardholder, who has obtained such Card under clause (d) of sub-section (1) of section 7A,— (i) has been dissolved by a competent court of law or otherwise; or (ii) has not been dissolved but, during the subsistence of such marriage, he has solemnized marriage with any other person.” 11. The relevant clause of the checklist issued for verification of applications seeking OCI category card which was part of the record before the High Court reads thus:- 826 [2024] 8 S.C.R.