It is clear that legitimate expectation, jurisprudentially, was a device created in to maintain a check on arbitrariness in state action. It does not extend to and cannot govern the operation of contracts between private parties, wherein the doctrine of promissory estoppel holds the field. 50. We have discussed in detail in preceding paragraphs that even if the function being performed by a private educational institution in imparting education may be considered as a public function, the relationship between the administration of such an institution and its employees remains a contractual one, falling within the ambit of private law. 51. Nothing has been placed on record by the respondents to show that any express or implied promise was made by the appellant regarding keeping their salary and service conditions intact. There have been no past negotiations or dealings between the respondents and the appellant society as the dispute arose as soon as the appellant took over the administration of the school. Moreover, there is no statutory obligation on the appellant society which requires that the salaries and allowances of the respondents are to be kept at par with what is payable to teachers of Government institutions. Lastly, the appellant society, for the purposes of its relationship with its employees, cannot be regarded as a public or Government authority. 52. We are of the view that for all the aforesaid reasons, the doctrine of legitimate expectation will have no applicability to the facts of the present case. The submission of the respondents in that regard is thus answered accordingly. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2247 Army Welfare Education Society New Delhi v. Sunil Kumar Sharma & Ors. Etc. H. CONCLUSION 53. In the result, the appeals succeed and are hereby allowed. The impugned and passed by the High Court is hereby set aside. 54. Although we have set aside the impugned and passed by the High Court, yet having regard to the submissions made on behalf of the appellants as recorded in paragraph 6 of the dated 15.02.2021 (extracted in paragraph 4 herein above) as also the fact that all the respondents as on date are serving with the appellant society, they shall continue to serve on the terms and conditions as stipulated by the appellant society. The appellant society shall not discharge the respondents from service. 55. There shall be no as to costs. Result of the case: Appeals allowed. †Headnotes prepared by: Ankit Gyan