The Division Bench (original) set aside the direction to mutate the name of the first respondent in the revenue records on three technical but fundamental grounds – first, that a non-party to a suit could not be bound by the decree; secondly, the decision on the title of the subject land not having been rendered upon hearing the version of the State, no direction of the nature made by the Single Judge could have validly been made; and thirdly, that the contempt petition was barred by limitation. 23 (1979) 4 SCC 389 24 [1994] Supp. 5 SCR 503 : (1995) 1 SCC 170 25 (2006) 4 SCC 78 1096 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 23. In the light of the present controversy, the additional documents purporting to validate the title of the subject land [even if obtained by the first respondent belatedly and not in course of the proceedings before the Division Bench (original) and howsoever clinching the same might appear to be for the lis to be decided in his favour] can neither be considered material nor relevant to the central issue, i.e., contempt, if any, of the direction contained in the of disposal of the writ proceedings. 24. As noted earlier, the Division Bench (original) inter alia proceeded to dismiss the contempt petition as time-barred. We propose to consider the averments made in the contempt petition in greater depth a little later. However, what stands out is that a decision having been rendered by the Division Bench (original) upon consideration of the pleadings in the contempt petition vis-à-vis the law relating to limitation contained in the Act, such decision was not open to a review on the basis of alleged discovery of new evidence since the same did not have any relation with the finding that the contempt petition was time-barred. The first respondent failed to present any new evidence countering the reasoning of the Division Bench (original) that a time-barred contempt petition had been entertained by the Single Judge; furthermore, the title documents or s of the Board of Revenue had no bearing on either the factum of the State not being a party to the civil suit, or on the question of limitation. Quite apart the ground of discovery of new evidence, the decision of the Division Bench (original) which was rendered upon an exhaustive analysis of the materials on record including the pleadings did not suffer from any error, much less any error apparent on the face of the record, warranting a review. Even if any error were present, such error could have been rectified only in exercise of the court’s appellate jurisdiction and not the review jurisdiction. 25. The grounds of review that the first respondent had urged in the review petition have been meticulously looked into by us. They numbered in excess of 90 (ninety). The general impression is that more the number of grounds, less the likelihood of existence of a case for review. To succeed in a motion for review, viewed through the prism of ‘error apparent on the face of the record’, it does neither require long-drawn arguments nor an elaborate process of reasoning as these may be required, in a given case, when exercising the power of merit review.