But if the conditions are not fulfilled, the gift is not valid even though it may have been effected by a registered instrument. Therefore, a valid gift could be made by oral statements as well so long as the three requirements as discussed above are met thereby. This is because registration is not a requirement which obviates the need for a gift to be reduced in writing. 29. Another aspect which needs to be considered is the Mutation Entry. The appellants claim that even though the entry uses the word ‘partition’, it should be read as ‘gift’. Both the Trial Court and High Court have held that the same is not possible and if the entry reads ‘partition’ it has to necessarily be read as so. 942 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 30. In to appreciate this contention, two aspects are important. One, the importance of nomenclature and two, the purpose of a mutation entry. 31. Before proceeding further, it should be apposite to reproduce the Mutation Entry: “The details of the partition of the property done by Sultan Abdul Khader Shek in favour of his two sons: Sy. No. Extent Akara Occupants 249/A1/1A 4 acres 3 guntas 1-79 Shek Sultan Saheb Abdul Khader Shek 249/A1/1B 4 acres 15 ¼ 1-80 Mansoor Sikandar S/o Sultansah 249/A1/1C 4-15 1-80 From this two pattas taken effect as per the wardi.” Indubitably, it is a settled law that only the substance, not the form or nomenclature, is pertinent to determine the nature of the transaction. ‘Partition’ and ‘gift’ are two terms that have different requisites, require different circumstances, and bear different consequences. Partition, as already noted above, is the division of property among co-owners, whereas gift is a voluntary transfer of existing property made voluntarily without consideration. The legal necessities of both these modes of conveyance are quite different and, thus, cannot be liberally interpreted. 32. What is required to be considered is the intention as shown by the words written in a document as observed by this Court in Mathai Samuel (supra): “19. The primary rule of construction of a document is the intention of the executants, which must be found in the words used in the document. The question is not what may be supposed to have been intended, but what has been said. We need to carry on the exercise of construction or interpretation of the document only if the document is ambiguous, or its meaning is uncertain. If the language used in the document is unambiguous and the meaning is clear, evidently, that is what is meant by the executants [2024] 12 S.C.R. 943 Mansoor Saheb (Dead) & Ors. v. Salima (D) By Lrs. & Ors. of the document. Contemporary events and circumstances surrounding the execution of the document are not relevant in such situations. … 21. Coleridge, J. in Shore v. Wilson [(1842) 9 Cl & Fin 355 : 8 ER 450 (HL)] [Cl & Fin at pp. 525-26] held as follows : (ER pp. 517-18) “The intention to be sought is the intention which is expressed in the instrument, not the intention which the maker of the instrument may have had in his mind.