For this purpose, they could work out illustrative examples and include the same in the Welcome Kit sent to cardholders as also place it on their websites. 55. One such endeavour is also apparent from the fact that the same 2003 Circular, also enunciates the enabling clauses in a loan agreement, which reads herein as under: “2.7.1 Banks should invariably incorporate the following proviso in the loan agreements in the case of all advances, including the term loans, thereby enabling banks to charge the applicable interest rate in conformity with the directives issued by RBI from time to time. “Provided that the interest payable by the borrower shall be subject to the changes in the interest rates by the Reserve Bank from time to time.” 1510 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 56. We are thus, of the considered opinion that the challenge by the complainants that the guidelines issued by the RBI are arbitrary and not in public interest, is wholly without basis. It is no more res integra that any direction or guideline, issued by a statutory authority, is an extension of the statute itself. Rules made under a statute must be treated, for all purposes of construction or obligations, exactly as if they were in that Act.14 The notifications, circulars and directions of the RBI are nothing but the legislative expression of the ‘statement of object & reasons’ encapsulated in the preamble of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934. Hence, the statutory presumption that the legislature whilst formulating laws has inserted every part thereunder for a purpose and that legislative intention, which should be given effect to, would be applicable to the present guidelines as well. 57. In this respect alone, the National Commission had no jurisdiction to either entertain a Complaint, having vague, ambiguous allegations & no cause of action, and further also had no jurisdiction to assume the jurisdiction of the Reserve Bank of India, or act/decide or regulate on its behest, any monetary decision or policy. This Hon’ble Court has also answered the question of want of judicial review of directions, within the specific domain of an expert body in the case of Shri Sitaram Sugar Company Ltd. Vs Union of India15 and was pleased to observe as under: “Judicial review is not concerned with matters of economic policy. The Court does not substitute its judgement for that of the legislature or its agents as to matters within its province of either. The Court does not supplant the feel of expert by its own views. When the legislature acts, within the sphere of its authority and delegates power to an agent, it may empower the agent to make findings of fact which are conclusive provided such findings satisfy the test of reasonableness. In all such cases, judicial inquiry is confined to the question whether the findings of fact, are reasonably based on evidence and whether such findings are consistent with the laws of the land.” 14 Peerless General Finance & Investment Co. Ltd. & Anr.