198 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 19. It is important to notice at this stage itself, Section 40(c) and Section 100 of the M.P. Panchayat Raj Avam Gram Swaraj Adhiniyam, 1993, which reads as under:- “40 (c) the use of position or influence directly or indirectly to secure employment for any relative in the Panchayat or any action for extending any pecuniary benefits to any relative, such as giving out any type of lease, getting any work done through them in the Panchayat by an office- bearer of Panchayat. Explanation.-For the purpose of this clause, the expression ‘relative’ shall mean father, mother, brother, sister, husband, wife, son, daughter, mother-in-law, father-in-law, brother- in-law, sister-in-law, son-in-law or daughter-in-law : 100. Penalty for acquisition by a member, office bearer or servant of interest in contract. - If a member or office bearer or servant of Panchayat knowingly acquires, directly or indirectly any personal share or interest in any contract or employment, with, by or on behalf of a Panchayat without the sanction of or permission of the prescribed authority he shall be deemed to have committed an offense under Section 168 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (XLV of 1860)” 20. Under the explanation to Section 40(c), nieces, nephews, sister-in- law’s sister are not covered under the definition of relative. Of the fourteen candidates, whose appointments were set aside, without making them parties, several fall outside the definition of relative even going by the case of the Complainant. Of the total 14, seven fell outside the definition. Of the ten before us, five fall in the category outside the definition of relative. Since the appointed candidates were not made parties, these facts could not be brought to notice. Revision before the Commissioner:- 21. On a revision being filed by the appellants, an interim staying the execution of the of 02.06.1999 was made on 25.06.1999. The interim was also given effect to. The appellants were posted back to their respective positions. In the revision, the appellants canvassed the ground of the violation of principles of natural justice. Before the revisional authority, the appellants specifically contended [2024] 4 S.C.R. 199 Krishnadatt Awasthy v. State of Madhya Pradesh & Ors. that they were appointed in accordance with law based on the merit list and that there was no irregularity. They disputed the allegation that they were appointed on account of the fact that they were relatives. However, the Commissioner rejected the argument holding that, if selection has been made in violation of the scheme, then the same can be cancelled without giving an opportunity. The Revisional Authority failed to notice that the entire selection had not been cancelled and only the selection of the 14 appointees including the 10 appellants had been cancelled. Ultimately, the revision was dismissed by an of the Commissioner dated 14.03.2000. Since the of the Commissioner in revision proceedings is crucial, the operative part is extracted hereinbelow:- “6. (sic) On going through the record received for consideration on the arguments of both the parties, I have found that while examining the selection process, the Collector, Chhatarpur has clearly mentioned in his dated 02.06.1999 that the members of the Selection Committee have selected their relatives.