As a result, the substituted Section 106 reads as under: “106. Duration of certain leases in absence of written contract or local usage.— (1) In the absence of a contract or local law or usage to the contrary, a lease of immovable property for agricultural or manufacturing purposes shall be deemed to be a [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1497 Naeem Bano Alias Gaindo v. Mohammad Rahees & Anr. lease from year to year, terminable, on the part of either lessor or lessee, by six months’ notice; and a lease of immovable property for any other purpose shall be deemed to be a lease from month to month, terminable, on the part of either lessor or lessee, by fifteen days’ notice. (2) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, the period mentioned in sub-section (1) shall commence from the date of receipt of notice. (3) A notice under sub-section (1) shall not be deemed to be invalid merely because the period mentioned therein falls short of the period specified under that sub-section, where a suit or proceeding is filed after the expiry of the period mentioned in that sub-section. (4) Every notice under sub-section (1) must be in writing, signed by or on behalf of the person giving it, and either be sent by post to the party who is intended to be bound by it or be tendered or delivered personally to such party, or to one of his family or servants at his residence, or (if such tender or delivery is not practicable) affixed to a conspicuous part of the property.” 8. Entry 6, List III - Concurrent List of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution of India reads as under - “Transfer of property other than agricultural land; registration of deeds and documents.” Entry 6, List III being in the Concurrent List both the Parliament as well as the State Legislature have concurrent legislative competence to enact laws on the said subject. However, there could be an inconsistency in the laws made by the Parliament and the State Legislature. How would such inconsistency be resolved? 8.1 When there is an inconsistency between a law made by the Parliament and a law made by the Legislature of a State, Article 254 of the Constitution would apply, which reads as under: 1498 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “254. Inconsistency between laws made by Parliament and laws made by the Legislatures of States. – (1) If any provision of a law made by the Legislature of a State is repugnant to any provision of a law made by Parliament which Parliament is competent to enact, or to any provision of an existing law with respect to one of the matters enumerated in the Concurrent List, then, subject to the provisions of clause (2), the law made by Parliament, whether passed before or after the law made by the Legislature of such State, or, as the case may be, the existing law, shall prevail and the law made by the Legislature of the State shall, to the extent of the repugnancy, be void.