SHOW CAUSE Mr. C.U. Singh, RELEVANT DETAILS IN SHOW CAUSE NOTICE Sr. Adv. and NOTICE: Ms. Fauzia a) Specific grounds on the basis of which Shakil, Adv. the violation is alleged and the demolition is proposed; b) Description of building/structure proposed to be demolished and the extent of unauthorized construction, if any; c) Details of relevant applicable provisions and laws alleged to have been breached (municipal laws, forest laws etc. ); d) If the alleged violation can be compounded or regularized on payment of a fee/penalty; e) Time period within which the owner has to reply; and f) Documents that the owner has to furnish. SERVICE OF SHOW CAUSE NOTICE: SHOW CAUSE NOTICE 1. Delivery Method: Serve the Show Cause Notice by hand to the owner of the dwelling/commercial establishment slated for demolition. 2. Witness Requirement: A neighbour of the owner must be present as a witness during the notice service and sign the notice. 736 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports S.No. TOPIC/ ISSUE COUNSEL’S/ SUMMARY OF SUGGESTIONS PARTY NAME 3. Report of Service: The officer serving the notice must prepare a report detailing the service. 4. Alternate Delivery: If the owner is not residing in the district, the notice can be sent via Registered Post/Speed Post AD. SERVICE OF NOTICE TO OCCUPIER: 1. Occupier Notification: If the property is occupied by someone other than the owner, serve the notice to the occupier in the same manner. 2. Direction to Occupier: The notice must include a directive for the occupier to inform the owner about the notice. 3. Affixing Notice: The notice should be affixed to the gate/door or another conspicuous part of the property proposed for demolition. UPLOADING NOTICE ON THE WEBSITE: Copy of notice and service report should also be uploaded on the website of the municipal corporation or concerned authority. TIME TO FILE REPLY: Minimum 2 months- time REPLY TO SHOW CAUSE NOTICE: The owner shall file its reply to the show cause notice within the time prescribed, along with relevant supporting material. A receiving or acknowledgment of the reply should be provided to the owner. Ms. Nitya Issuance of Show Cause Notice: Ramakrishnan, • If the authority believes an unauthorized Sr. Adv. building/development exists, a show cause notice must be served to both the owner and occupier before any action is taken. • The notice must also be pasted on the property and published in three newspapers with over one lakh circulation—one each in Hindi, English, and a third language designated by the state. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 737 In Re: Directions in The Matter of Demolition of Structures S.No. TOPIC/ ISSUE COUNSEL’S/ SUMMARY OF SUGGESTIONS PARTY NAME • The newspaper notice only needs to include the owner’s and occupier’s names, property address, and a link to a website with the full notice and timestamp. Content of the Notice: The notice must specify the legal provisions under which it is issued, the violations identified, and the specific portion and extent of the building/ structure that is deemed illegal.