When a murder or other grievous offence is committed the victims or other aggrieved persons must receive reparation and social responsibility of the criminal to restore the loss or heal the injury which is partof the punitive exercise which means the length of the prison term is no reparation to the crippled or bereaved. (v) Fazal Ali, J. in his concurring in Maru Ram observed that crime is rightly described as an act of warfare against the community touching new depths of lawlessness. According to him, the object of imposing deterrent sentence is three-fold. While holding that the deterrent form of punishment may not be a most suitable or ideal form of punishment yet, the fact remains that the deterrent punishment prevents occurrence of offence. He further observed that Section 433-A is actually a social piece of legislation which by one stroke seeks to prevent dangerous criminals from repeating offences and on the other hand protects the society from harm and distress caused to innocent persons. While opining that where section 433-A applies, no question of reduction of sentence arises at all unless the President of India or the Governor of a State choose to exercise their wide powers under Article 72 or Article 161 of the Constitution respectively which also have to be exercised according to sound legal principles as, any reduction or modification in the deterrent punishment would, far from reforming the criminal, be counter-productive. [2024] 1 S.C.R. 833 Bilkis Yakub Rasool v. Union of India & Others (b) Mohinder Singh is a case which arose under Section 432 on remission of sentence in which the difference between the terms `bail’, `furlough’ and `parole’ having different connotations were discussed. It was observed that furloughs are variously known as temporary leaves, home visits or temporary community release and are usually granted when a convict is suddenly faced with a severe family crisis such as death or grave illness in the immediate family and often the convict/inmate is accompanied by an officer as part of the terms of temporary release of special leave which is granted to a prisoner facing a family crisis. Parole is a release of a prisoner temporarily for a special purpose or completely before the expiry of the sentence or on promise of good behaviour. Conditional release from imprisonment is to entitle a convict to serve remainder of his term outside the confines of an institution on his satisfactorily complying all terms and conditions provided in the parole . (c) In Poonam Latha vs. M.L. Wadhwan, (1987) 3 SCC 347 (“Poonam Latha”), it was observed that parole is a professional release from confinement but it is deemed to be part of imprisonment. Release on parole is a wing of reformative process and is expected to provide opportunity to the prisoner to transform himself into a useful citizen. Parole is thus, a grant of partial liberty or lessening of restrictions to a convict prisoner but release on parole does not change the status of the prisoner. When a prisoner is undergoing sentence and confined in jail or is on parole or furlough his position is not similar to a convict who is on bail.