The appellant’s sentence of imprisonment was modified to four months, and a direction was issued to implement the passed in the writ petition within a period of four weeks. SUBMISSIONS 5. Mr. C.S. Vaidyanathan, learned senior counsel for the appellant, while seeking our interference with the impugned , submitted as under: a) The Division Bench (review) of the High Court erred in allowing the review petitions, without affording a hearing to the appellant on merits. b) The Division Bench (review) set aside the reasoned of the Division Bench (original) in the contempt appeal and while substituting its own reasoning for that in the under review, did not disclose the error that was apparent on the record; instead, it proceeded to decide the review as if it were sitting in appeal over the earlier decision. c) The Division Bench (review) placed undue reliance on the additional documents produced by the first respondent, which were accepted on face value, without giving an opportunity to the appellant to rebut the same. d) The Division Bench (review), in exercise of its review jurisdiction, went beyond the of the Single Judge passed in the writ petition. It is settled law that a writ court cannot adjudicate on title, since the same falls within the exclusive jurisdiction of a civil court. e) The Division Bench (original) had rightly set aside the of the Single Judge, as the had been obtained by playing fraud on the Court and the proceedings in the suit were itself fraudulent in nature. f) The civil suit was dismissed as against the State Government and, thus, there could not have been an executable decree as against the State. g) The Division Bench (original) had rightly allowed the appellant’s appeal on the ground that the failure to mutate the names of 1090 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the first respondent was not a continuing wrong and, therefore, the contempt petition was barred by limitation. 6. Mr. C. A. Sundaram, learned senior counsel appearing for an intervenor, who disputed the title of the first respondent, adopted the submissions of Mr. C.S. Vaidyanathan. In addition, he contended that there cannot be a more egregious mistake as the one committed by the Division Bench (review) in exercise of its review jurisdiction. He invited our attention to the grounds of review forming part of the review petition and contended that none of the grounds can be said to be within the parameters of section 114 read with XLVII Rule 1 of the CPC; hence, the Division Bench (review) assumed a jurisdiction which it could not have more particularly after the unsuccessful misadventures of the first respondent before this Court. 7. Mr. Ranjit Kumar, Mr. Neeraj Kishan Kaul, Mr. Vipin Sanghi and Mr. R. Anand Padmanabhan, learned senior counsel appearing for the various respondents, in support of upholding the impugned , submitted as under: a) The appellant had not approached this Court with clean hands since the Government Pleader, during the pendency of the contempt proceedings, had avowed that the process of mutation had already commenced, while the counter affidavit filed in the same proceedings stated that the contempt petition itself was barred by limitation.