Moreover, the defence has not disputed the depictions in the spot map while cross-examining the I.O. (P.W.14). 33. A mere omission on the part of the Investigating Officer in marking a spot on the site plan does not deflect the prosecution’s case. It is well-established that the site plan merely denotes the location of the incident without implying further details.1 In light of the fact that the persons who had seen that to which they have testified, due weightage must be given to their first-hand version. Their evidence cannot be jettisoned merely because the I.O. forgot to describe the room as ‘Bhairav Shastri’s Jhuggi’ on the spot map. 34. It is a case where eyewitnesses have corroborated each other; their depositions are reinforced by deceased Tularam himself in his statement recorded under Section 161 CrPC, and the location of the incident is depicted on the spot map (Ex.P.2) as a `brick room’. It, thus, stands established that there was another Jhuggi where the deceased sought refuge and was eventually assaulted. Given these circumstances, the so-called contradiction miserably fails to invade the corpus delicti. A.2 Legal Effect of Non-reading of Contents of FIR to the Complainant 35. It was then argued that the Complainant, Usha Bai (P.W.10), in her cross-examination, has candidly admitted that the FIR (Ex.P.7) was not read out to her and she put her thumb impression under the instructions of the Police. Reliance is placed on her deposition during cross-examination where she claims to have thumb marked on a blank paper, whereupon Ex.P.7 was prepared. 1 Shivanna v. State of Hunsur Town Police (2010) 15 SCC 91 234 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 36. In to appreciate the contention, we have gone through the translated version of the statement of Usha Bai (P.W.10), which the Appellant has appended along with the original paper book as well as a part of “Compilation of Depositions of Witnesses”. Since the translated version was seemingly incorrect, making it difficult to discern as to what the witness had deposed, we have also gone through the original Hindi version of Usha Bai’s (P.W.10) statement. 37. The statement of a witness has to be extolled in its entirety. It may be recapitulated that Usha Bai (P.W.10), in her complaint which led to the registration of the subject FIR, had categorically stated that, “Vijay, Dharmendra @ Dhamma, Katchu @ Ramswaroop, Ballu, Ravi, Asgar all came shouting that Tillu was indulging in Dadagiri and he be finished today……...” The FIR further states that, “ye sabhee log” [all these persons] started attacking, Tillu ran towards Bhairav Shastri’s Jhuggi, entered and closed the door from inside to save himself. “Sabhee ne” (all of them) forcefully broke the door open and entered the Jhuggi and surrounded Tillu ….. and Dharmendra @ Dhamma (Appellant) then gave a knife blow in the abdomen of Tillu. 38. It must also be borne in mind that FIR is not a substantive piece of evidence, and it can be used only to corroborate or contradict the version of an Informant.