20. The criminal background of a witness necessitates that the courts approach their evidence with caution. The testimony of a witness with a chequered past cannot be dismissed as untruthful or uncreditworthy without considering the surrounding facts and circumstances of the case, including their presence at the scene of the offence. In cases involving conflicts between rival gangs or groups, the testimony of members from either side is admissible and relevant. If the court is convinced of the veracity and truthfulness of such testimony, it may be considered. Courts typically assess the broader context to determine if there is sufficient corroboration, as long as there are no valid reasons to discredit the evidence. The crucial test is whether the witness is truly an eyewitness and whether their testimony is credible. If their presence at the scene is established beyond doubt, their account of the incident can be relied upon. Such evidence cannot be discarded merely on the grounds of criminal background.18 Testimony of Amarendra Kumar Sinha (PW-10) 21. No doubt, Amarendra Kumar Sinha (PW-10) turned hostile, but his core deposition captures the following: (i) He accepts having recorded the fardbeyan (Exhibit-50) on 13.06.1998 at about 9 p.m. It bears his signatures which are marked Exhibits 12 and 12/1. (ii) He had gone to the hospital at about 6:00 – 6:30 p.m. Some of the people, including Arbind Singh (PW-13), Shashi Bhushan Singh (PW-42) and 7-8 other persons, whom he did not remember, accompanied him. (iii) He met Brij Bihari Prasad at about 6:30 p.m. in the ward. He states that the incident took place at about 8:15 p.m., and he, along with the others, stayed there till after the incident. 18 See State of U.P. v. Farid Khan and Others (2005) 9 SCC 103 [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1333 Rama Devi v. The State of Bihar and Others (iv) At the time of the incident, Amarendra Kumar Sinha (PW-10) along with Arbind Singh (PW-13), Shashi Bhushan Singh (PW-42), Ram Niranjan Chaudhary (A-6) and some others, had come out for a stroll with Brij Bihari Prasad. (v) Two vehicles, a Sumo and an Ambassador car, had come in. 5-6 persons alighted from the two vehicles and moved towards Brij Bihari Prasad. Thereafter, one of the assailants pointed towards Brij Bihari Prasad, identifying him as the Minister. The assailants then started firing. Brij Bihari Prasad and Lakshmeshwar Sahu were shot at, and they collapsed. Amarendra Kumar Sinha (PW-10) and others ran towards the parking lot. One of the accused took the carbine of Lakshmeshwar Sahu. While exiting the hospital, slogans of “Jai Bajrang Bali” were raised by the assailants. They exited in the same vehicles from the east gate. (vi) He does not remember the registration number of the vehicles. He, along with the other visitors present there, had informed the hospital staff, who in turn, informed the police. (vii) He identified Bhupendra Nath Dubey (since deceased) and Mantu Tiwari (A-4). He could not identify the other accused. He claimed that Bhupendra Nath Dubey (since deceased) and Mantu Tiwari (A-4) were carrying pistols.