Digital Supreme Court Reports statements of Accused No. 01 to Accused No. 04 and has observed that the same being voluntary in nature and having been corroborated by other evidence can form the basis of their conviction. For this purpose, reliance has been placed on the decision in Tofan Singh v. State of Tamil Nadu (2021) 4 SCC 1 whereby it has been categorically held that a statement recorded under Section 67 of the NDPS Act 1985 is inadmissible in evidence. The majority opinion herein had held that power of recording of statement under Section 67 of the NDPS Act is limited in nature and conferred upon subject to the safeguards as set out in Sections 41 to 44 of the NDPS Act 1985 for the purpose of entry, search, seizure and arrest without warrants and for conducting of only an enquiry and not in the course of investigation. It is for the initiation of an investigation or enquiry under the NDPS Act 1985 and it does not meet the threshold of a confessional statement. 16. It is submitted that the secret information received by Mrs Chaube was only related to the auto rickshaw wherein the Accused No. 04 was to be carrying the contraband – which was eventually seized. However, there existed no secret information apropos the house wherein the subsequent search/raid was conducted by the raiding party. The latter was totally out of the scope of the information received and recorded and thereby the search therein was absolutely illegal and in violation of the provisions of Section 42 of the NDPS Act 1985. The learned Counsel has further drawn our attention to the fallacies and inconsistencies in the panchnama recorded by the raiding party in addition to the depositions of the prosecution witnesses. 17. The learned Counsel further relies on Darshan Singh v. State of Haryana (2016) 14 SCC 358 which deals with scope of Sections 41(1) and (2) of the NDPS Act 1985 and the need of their independent compliance against each other. This Court herein went on to hold that mere registration of FIR at the instance of the SHO and its subsequent communication to the Superintendent of Police would not amount to sufficient compliance with Section 42(2) of the NDPS Act 1985. For this purpose, reference is made to paragraph number 13 of the said at Page 364 as follows: “13. Having given our thoughtful consideration to the submission advanced at the hands of the learned counsel for the respondent, we are of the view that the mandate [2024] 4 S.C.R. 453 Smt. Najmunisha v. The State of Gujarat contained in Section 42(1) of the NDPS Act, requiring the recording in writing, the details pertaining to the receipt of secret information, as also, the communication of the same to the superior officer are separate and distinct from the procedure stipulated under the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code. Sub-section (1) of Section 41 of the NDPS Act provides that a Metropolitan Magistrate or a Magistrate of the First Class or any Magistrate of Second Class specially empowered by the State Government may issue a warrant for the arrest of any person whom he has reason to believe to have committed any offence punishable under Chapter IV.