The principle has been recognised in the existing law in India and is enacted in Section 26 of the General Clauses Act, 1897 and Section 300 of the Criminal Procedure Code, 1973. This was the inspiration and background for incorporating sub-clause (2) into Article 20 of the Constitution. But the ambit and content of the guaranteed fundamental right are much narrower than those of the common law in England or the doctrine of “double jeopardy” in the American Constitution.” See also Sangeetaben Mahendrabhai Patel v. State of Gujarat.35 31. In our considered view, the position of law that the principle applies is unquestionable. The three conditions laid down in T.P. Gopalakrishnan (supra) are: Firstly, there must have been previous proceedings before a court of law or a judicial tribunal of competent jurisdiction in which the person must have been prosecuted. The said prosecution must be valid and not null and void or abortive. Secondly, the conviction or acquittal in the previous proceeding must be in force at the time of the second proceeding in relation to the same offence and same set of facts, for which he was prosecuted and punished in the first proceeding. Thirdly, the subsequent proceeding must be 35 (2012) 7 SCC 621 1580 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports a fresh proceeding, where he is, for the second time, sought to be prosecuted and punished for the same offence and same set of facts. 32. In the present facts, a previous proceeding did take place wherein the Trial Court convicted the appellant and sentenced him to death. There is no question as to the Court’s competence or jurisdiction. The first condition is, therefore, met. The acquittal awarded by the High Court has to remain in force for the cardinal principle of criminal jurisprudence of innocent until proven guilty applies and cannot be displaced in except in circumstances otherwise provided by law. The second principle is also met. Regarding the third condition, had the been for retrial, the court could have held that the condition remained unmet; however, since the direction was for reinvestigation and that too by a different investigation agency, it necessarily has to begin from zero. Hence, the second investigation, chargesheet and examination of witnesses would classify as meeting the third condition. 33. In view of the discussion as aforesaid, this Court is of the view that the right enshrined in Article 20(2) of the appellant stands violated. 34. Since this Court has come to the conclusion as above, there survives no need to examine the applicability of Section 300 of Cr.P.C and other provisions of law where the principle of double jeopardy stands enshrined. 35. Vision of the High Court, in our considered view was bad in law, and is therefore quashed and set aside. All proceedings subsequent to such direction, necessarily have to be held as such and therefore quashed and set aside as well. The appellant stands acquitted of all charges. 36. The question of law raised in this appeal, is answered in the above terms.