These courses have not been given equivalence by the Government of Uttar Pradesh/Government of India/ 12 “SCERT” 13 Social, Economic and Educational Status of the Muslim Community of India: A Report (Prime Minister’s High Level Committee, Cabinet Secretariat, Government of India) Appendix Table 4.4 (293) 378 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports any university established by law, nor has the education of these courses been recognized as an alternative to the graduation/post-graduation degree of a university established by law for employment at the level of Uttar Pradesh Government or Government of India.” 11. Consequently, students educated in Madarsas are only eligible for occupations that have High School or Intermediate as qualification requirements. While Kamil and Fazil are not considered to be alternatives to the regular undergraduate and post-graduate degrees, a notification issued by the University Grants Commission14 in March 2014 which lists the degrees governed by the University Grants Commission Act 195615 includes both Fazil and Kamil under the title of ‘Specification of Degrees with Urdu/Persian/Arabic nomenclature’. The effect of the notification shall be considered in the course of the . c. Madarsa Act 12. The State legislature of Uttar Pradesh enacted the Madarsa Act which was deemed to come into force on 3 September 2004. The long title of the Madarsa Act states that it is “an Act to provide for the establishment of a Board of Madarsa Education in the State and for the matters connected therewith and incidental thereto”. The Statement of Objects and Reasons indicates the reason for the enactment: “In para 55 of the Education Code the Registrar, Arabi- Pharasi Examinations, Uttar Pradesh, Allahabad had been authorised to recognise the Arabi-Pharasi Madarsas in the State and for conducting the examinations of such Madarsas. These Madarsas were managed by the Education Department. But with the creation of the Minority Welfare and Wakfs Department in 1995 all the works relating to such Madarsas were transferred from Education Department to the Minority Welfare Departments by virtue of which all the works relating to Madarsas are being performed under the control of the Director, Minority 14 “UGC” 15 “UGC Act” [2024] 11 S.C.R. 379 Anjum Kadari & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. Welfare, Uttar Pradesh and the Registrar/Inspector Arabi- Pharasi Madarsas, Uttar Pradesh. The Arabi-Pharasi Madarsas were being administered under the Arabi-Pharasi Madarsas Rules, 1987 but since the said rules have not been made under an Act, many complication [sic] arose in running the Madarsas under the said rules. Therefore, with a view to removing the difficulties arisen in running the Madarsas, improving the merit therein and making available the best facility of study to the students studying in Madarsas it was decided to make a law to provide for the establishment of a Board of Madarsa Education in the state and for the matters connected therewith or incidental thereto. …” (emphasis supplied) 13. Section 2 provides definitions. The expressions “institution”, “Madarsa Education” and “recognition” have been defined as follows: “2. Definitions. — In this Act unless the context otherwise requires: — … (j) “institution” means the Government Oriental College, Rampur and includes a Madarsa or an Oriental College established and administered by Muslim Minorites and recognized by the Board for imparting Madarsa-Education; (h) “Madarsa-Education” means education in Arabic, Urdu, Parsian, Islamic studies, Tibb Logic, Philosophy and includes such other branches of learning as may be specified by the Board from time to time; … (j) “recognition” means, recognition for the purpose of preparing candidates for admission to the Board’s Examination; …” (emphasis supplied) 380 [2024] 11 S.C.R.