– The single-sentence observation in Mafatlal to the effect that “material resources of the community” include privately owned resources may be obiter but has great persuasive value. 8 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports B 4. Words and Phrases – Term ‘distribution’ – Meaning and connotation of – Distribution by the State – Whether acquisition of private resources falls within the ambit of the term ‘distribution – Held [per Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI (for himself and for Hrishikesh Roy, J. B. Pardiwala, Manoj Misra, Rajesh Bindal, Satish Chandra Sharma, and Augustine George Masih, JJ.)] – The term ‘distribution’ has a wide connotation – The various forms of distribution which can be adopted by the State cannot be exhaustively detailed – However, it may include the vesting of the concerned resources in the State or nationalisation – In the specific case, the Court must determine whether the distribution ‘subserves the common good’ – Held (per B.V. Nagarathna, J. ): The term “distribution” has no doubt a wide connotation but vesting in the State of a particular privately owned “material resource” or nationalisation of the same are only conditions precedent to distribution which have to comply with Article 300A of the Constitution – Further, a resource which has vested in the State or a resource retained by a State on nationalisation could be utilised by the State to subserve the common good as a material resource of the community – The public trust doctrine would apply to such material resources – Alternatively, the State could decide to actually distribute the “material resources of the community” to eligible and deserving persons by way of assignment, lease, allotment, grant, etc. – The same would also come within the scope and ambit of the expression “distribution” – Held (per Sudhanshu Dhulia, J. ): It is for the legislature to decide how the ownership and control of material resources is to be distributed in to subserve common good – How to control and distribute a material resource is also the task of the Legislature, but while doing so what has to be seen is that the control and ownership of the material resource be so distributed that it subserves common good of the community – If it does not, then such a legislation can be struck down as the Judiciary is not deprived of its powers of judicial review. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 9 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. Held [per Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI (for himself and for Hrishikesh Roy, J. B. Pardiwala, Manoj Misra, Rajesh Bindal, Satish Chandra Sharma, and Augustine George Masih, JJ.)] (Majority Opinion): 1. Article 39(b) is not a source of legislative power. The inclusion or exclusion of ‘privately-owned resources’ from the ambit of the provision does not impact the power of the legislature to enact laws to acquire such resources. The power to acquire private resources, in certain situations, continues to be traceable to other provisions in the Constitution, including the sovereign power of eminent domain.