Chapter XIV of the Act provides for confiscation of such goods and imposition of penalties under Sections 1118 to 114. Section 111(o) is the specific instance for confiscation of goods for violation of conditions of exemption from payment of duty after the importation. These goods were not subjected to levy and collection of duty as they enjoyed the benefit of exemption. Upon detection of a violation, the legal consequences must and will follow and Chapter XIV provides for confiscations and penalties. 5.1. Confiscation of goods is appropriation of property by the revenue. The right, title and interest in the property, if any, is transferred and vested in the state under Section 126. Considering the 8 Section 111.Confiscation of improperly imported goods, etc.—The following goods brought from a place outside India shall be liable to confiscation:— (a) …(n) (o) any goods exempted, subject to any condition, from duty or any prohibition in respect of the import thereof under this Act or any other law for the time being in force, in respect of which the condition is not observed unless the non-observance of the condition was sanctioned by the proper officer; [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1191 M/s Navayuga Engineering Co. Ltd. v. Union of India & Anr. serious consequences of such an action, authority and process of law mandated Article 300A,9 Parliament prescribed the procedure under Section 122A, adjudicatory authority under Section 122, obligated issuance of a show-cause notice under Section 124 before confiscation. 6. Section 125 of the Act: Alternatively, there is also the option of redemption of the confiscated goods under Section 125, the statute specifically empowers the owner of the goods to exercise an option of legitimising the importation by paying fine, duty and other charges. The procedure prescribed is simple; i) confiscation must be authorised, ii) those goods should not be prohibited goods, iii) the officer shall give an option to redeem the goods in lieu of fine, iv) the owner or the possessor must exercise the option and v) pay the fine vi) within 120 days. The purpose and object of Section 125 is to enable a transition from ‘illegality’ to ‘compliance’ of laws. It grants an opportunity to the owner or possessor of the confiscated goods to regularise the transaction by payment of fine. This provision is based on a public policy consideration that balances crime and punishment and achieves the twin objectives of enabling a citizen to remain on the right side of law by adopting a prescribed measure and amicable settlement of disputes through resolution. Section 125 is extracted herein below for ready reference: “Sec 125. Option to pay fine in lieu of confiscation. (1) Whenever confiscation of any goods is authorised by this Act, the officer adjudging it may, in the case of any goods, the importation or exportation whereof is prohibited under this Act or under any other law for the time being in force, and shall, in the case of any other goods, give to the owner of the goods [or, where such owner is not known, the person from whose possession or custody such goods have been seized,] an option to pay in lieu of confiscation such fine as the said officer thinks fit.