[2024] 3 S.C.R. 865 : 2024 INSC 236 Satyanand Singh v. Union of India & Ors. (Civil Appeal No. 1666 of 2015) 20 March 2024 [Sanjiv Khanna & Dipankar Datta,* JJ.] Issue for Consideration The issue for consideration before this Hon’ble Court was a challenge to a of the Armed Forces Tribunal, which rejected the Appellant’s prayer for a reference of his diagnosis of AIDS, to a fresh Medical Board. The matter arose out of the Appellant’s discharge from service from the Indian Army under Rule 13(3), Item III (iii) of the Army Rules, 1954 on the ground that he was suffering from AIDS. The Appellant approached the Madhya Pradesh High Court challenging the of discharge from service. A Single Judge of the High Court allowed the Appellant’s writ petition, which was reversed by the Division Bench. On a challenge made to the Supreme Court, the Appellant was permitted to withdraw his appeal, and avail statutory remedies. Accordingly, the Appellant approached the Armed Forces Tribunal, which passed the Impugned . Headnotes Service Law – Armed Forces – Discharge from service on the ground of the Appellant suffering from AIDS – Application of the Appellant for a reference to a fresh Medical Board rejected by Armed Forces Tribunal – Challenge to: Held: The Armed Forces Tribunal referred to extensive medical literature regarding hazards of HIV – However, the Armed Forces Tribunal failed to observe that the Appellant was not diagnosed with any such symptoms – Nothing was brought on record to indicate that the Appellant was unfit to continue in service – This is a case of wrong diagnosis and false alarm with imperilling consequences for the Appellant – The contention of the Union of India that the doctors in 2001 [relevant time of the medical test] used their best professional to conclude that the Appellant was HIV+ve was rejected on the ground that there were no test results to * Author 866 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports justify the diagnosis that the Appellant was suffering from AIDS. [Paras 6 and 7] Service Law – Armed Forces – Extreme caution and care to ensure correct diagnosis required where Officer serving in the army is prematurely discharged from service: Held: The Appellant was diagnosed with neuro-tuberculosis, without examination by a neurologist, whose opinion was elementary – The Appellant, while serving in the army, was prematurely discharged; thus, extreme caution and care in ensuring correct diagnoses was required – The Union of India tried to cover up the wrong diagnosis, in spite of the test reports of the Appellant, and the Guidelines for Management and Prevention of HIV/AIDS Infection in the Armed Forces, 2003 [which prescribed that for condition for invalidment of an officer on the ground of suffering from AIDS as a CD4 Cell Count below 200 cells/mm3] – The Medical Board arbitrarily rejected the Appellant’s prayer for a Review Medical Board on flimsy grounds. [Para 8] Service Law – Armed Forces – Discharge from service – Psychological trauma of displacement from service: Held: The severance of the employer-employee relationship results not only in the employee losing his livelihood, but also affects those who depend on him for their survival – The Appellant, who was trained to live a disciplined life since the tender age of 19, was unnecessarily, and without cogent reason thrust into civilian life with little warning or preparation – Such displacement also causes psychological trauma.