Criminal Misc. Interim Bail Application No.6821/2021 (Gagandeep @ Goldy v. State of Rajasthan). In paragraph no.13 of the said , the learned Single Judge issued similar directions, which were issued in paragraph no.9 of the decision in the case of Jugal Kishore,1 with more elaboration. He pointed out that by dated 20th February 2023 of this Court in Criminal Appeal arising out of SLP (Crl.) No. 11675-11676 of 2022, by which a direction for erasing paragraphs nos. 13 to 18 of the dated 18th June 2021 was issued. Notwithstanding the of this Court dated 20th February 2023, the High Court committed illegality in insisting on compliance with the directions issued in the case of Jugal Kishore.1 He submitted that the High Court ought not to have issued a direction virtually laying down in what manner s should be passed by the Trial Courts while deciding every bail application, directing that the antecedents of the accused should be incorporated in the in a particular tabular format. He submitted that the High Court cannot interfere with the judicial discretion of the Session Judges by instructing them to pass s by incorporating information about the antecedents of the accused in a particular format. He submitted that as far as the strictures passed against the appellant are concerned, the law has been laid down by this Court in the case of Sonu Agnihotri vs. Chandra Shekhar and Others.2 He urged that unwarranted strictures passed by the learned Single Judge may adversely affect the judicial career of the appellant. The learned counsel appearing for the State has assisted the Court. 2 2024 SCC OnLine SC 3382 [2024] 12 S.C.R. 687 Ayub Khan v. The State of Rajasthan CONSIDERATION OF SUBMISSIONS 8. We have already quoted the directions issued by the High Court in the case of Jugal Kishore.1 The gist of the directions issued is summarised as follows: i. The Trial Courts shall, while allowing or disallowing any regular or anticipatory bail application must incorporate complete details of the antecedents of the accused, if any, in the ; ii. The Trial Court shall record that there are no antecedents in case none are there; and iii. If antecedents exist, the same shall be incorporated in the tabular form containing details mentioned in the . 9. The principles to be followed while deciding on a bail application are well settled. If Trial Courts commit errors while deciding bail applications, the same can always be corrected on the judicial side by the Courts, which are higher in the judicial hierarchy. The Constitutional Courts can lay down the principles governing the grant of bail or anticipatory bail. However, the Constitutional Courts cannot interfere with the discretion of our Trial Courts by laying down the form in which an should be passed while deciding bail applications. What the High Court has done in paragraph 9 in the decision in the case of Jugal Kishore1 is that it has made it mandatory for the Trial Courts to incorporate a chart containing details of the antecedents of the accused who applies for bail.