Those two videos contain boys (under teen) involved in sexual activity with an adult woman/girl. Admittedly, those two videos were downloaded and available in the mobile phone belonging to the petitioner and it was neither published nor transmitted to others and it was within the private domain of the petitioner. xxx xxx xxx 182 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 11. The Kerala High Court had an occasion to deal with the scope of Section 292 IPC. That was a case where a person was caught watching porn videos and a First Information Report came to be registered against him. While dealing with this issue, the Kerala High Court held that, watching an obscene photo or obscene video by a person by itself will not constitute an offence under Section 292 IPC. This is in view of the fact that this act is done by the concerned person in privacy without affecting or influencing anyone else. The moment the accused person tries to circulate or distribute or publicly exhibits obscene photos or videos, then the ingredients of the offence starts kicking in. 11. Thus, the High Court vide its impugned and dated 11.01.2024 allowed the petition and thereby quashed the criminal proceedings in Spl. S.C. No. 170 of 2023 on the ground that no offence could be said to have been made out against the respondent no. 1 either under Section 14(1) of the POCSO or Section 67B of the IT Act. The operative portion of the Impugned reads as under: - “12. In the considered view of this Court, the materials that have been placed before this Court does not make out an offence against the petitioner under Section 67-B of Information Technology Act, 2000 and Section 14(1) of Protection of Child from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. xxx xxx xxx 18. In the light of the above discussion, the continuation of the proceedings against the petitioner will amount to abuse of process of Court. That apart, it will be a stumbling block for the petitioner’s career in future. Therefore, this Court is inclined to quash the proceedings in Spl.S.C.No.170 of 2023 on the file of the Sessions Judge, Mahila Neethi Mandram (Fast Track Court), Tiruvallur District. Accordingly, this Criminal Original Petition stands allowed and the proceedings in Spl.S.C.No.170 of 2023 on the file of the Sessions Judge, Mahila Neethi Mandram (Fast Track Court), Tiruvallur District, is hereby quashed. Consequently, connected criminal miscellaneous petition is closed.” (Emphasis supplied) [2024] 10 S.C.R. 183 Just Rights for Children Alliance & Anr. v. S. Harish & Ors. 12. From the aforesaid it could be said that the High Court laid down three propositions of law which are as follows: - i. Mere possession or storage of any pornographic material is not an offence under the POCSO. We are mindful of the fact that, whilst endorsing the aforesaid proposition of law, the High Court in its impugned either consciously did not deem it necessary to refer to Section 15 of the POCSO or inadvertently failed to refer to Section 15 of the POCSO.