(xii) That the mere ploy of the grant of adequate compensation to the landowners with an escalation of 64.7% could not justify the grave illegalities committed by the authorities under the [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1085 Kali Charan and Others v. State of U.P. and Others garb of urgent acquisition because the same cannot obviate or supersede the substantive fundamental right of the landowners to file objections against the acquisition of the privately owned lands. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF YEIDA (RESPONDENT NO.3 IN BATCH NO. 1):- 26. Shri Tushar Mehta, learned Solicitor General of India, Shri Ranjit Kumar, Shri Gopal Jain, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of YEIDA implored the Court to uphold the passed in Kamal Sharma and to reverse the passed in Shyoraj Singh as being unsustainable in the eyes of law. They advanced the following pertinent submissions seeking the above relief:- (i) YEIDA is a statutory authority formed under Section 3 of the U.P. Industrial Area Development Act, 1976, which has been established to ensure planned development of the ‘industrial development area’. In furtherance of this objective, YEIDA prepared the Master Plan of 2021 and the Master Plan of 2031 with the intent to develop the eastern side of river Yamuna by construction of a six-lane Expressway joining Noida to Agra and also for integrated development of five distinct regions along the said Expressway for residential, industrial, institutional and recreational purposes. The construction of the Jewar Airport is also a part and parcel of the very same integrated project. (ii) That a bare perusal of the Master Plan(Phase-1-2031) clearly establishes that the land acquired for development across Yamuna Expressway, is an integrated project. The land was initially acquired for the Yamuna Expressway and thereafter, for developing land parcels alongside the Yamuna Expressway as residential townships, industrial areas, amusement zones, etc. The development is strictly being carried out in accordance with the Master Plan prepared by YEIDA. (iii) The Yamuna Expressway is a vital project of seminal importance providing access to millions of commuters by connecting the National Capital to Agra and nearby areas. The Yamuna Expressway is poised to become even more important with the upcoming Jewar Airport. A project of this magnitude would 1086 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports require the involvement of the adjoining areas which would lead to an overall development of the State. (iv) That the legality of the acquisition of the lands in question by YEIDA for integrated and complementary planned development is no longer res integra as the same has been consistently upheld by this Court vide various judicial pronouncements over time, the landmark case being Nand Kishore. (v) That the in Nand Kishore squarely covers the controversy at hand, wherein it was observed that the planned development of 25 million square meter of land (2500 Hectares) being acquired for creation of the five zones for industry, residence, amusement zones, etc. would be complementary to the creation of the Expressway and is a part of an integrated project and it was urged that similarly in the present case, land has been acquired for the planned development of the region.