Then, the Central Government may also direct any such offence also to be investigated on receipt of a report from the NIA as against any accused when it is already investigating a Scheduled Offence against a certain accused, as in the instant case provided that offence has a connection with the Scheduled Offence. Also, the NIA has been conferred wide powers under Section 8 of the NIA Act to also investigate into any other offence committed by the accused in respect of whom a Scheduled Offence is being investigated provided the offence is connected with the Scheduled Offence under the Schedule to the NIA Act. 7.2 The interpretive challenge that has come to the forefront in this case is due to the fact that there are certain co-accused persons who are present in FIR No.20/2020 and FIR No.23/2020 who are not accused under the prior FIR No. 01/2018 registered in the State of Gujarat. Therefore, the question is whether, the NIA can investigate only the same accused who is present in the NIA investigation qua Scheduled Offences and for non-scheduled offence by virtue of Section 8 of the NIA Act. In other words, can the NIA investigate any other accused person who, although not being investigated for any Scheduled Offences could be investigated by NIA because there exists a link between the two namely, Scheduled and non-scheduled offences, thereby connecting every co-accused. 7.3 On a plain reading of Section 8, it is clear that the said Section has to be read in continuation of what has been stated in sub-section (5) of Section 6 of the NIA Act. Once the Central 1772 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports Government directs the NIA to investigate a Scheduled Offence and during the course of such investigation of a Scheduled Offence against an accused, it becomes necessary for the NIA to also investigate any other offence which the said accused is alleged to have committed, then such offence could also be investigated provided that other offence to be investigated is connected with the Scheduled Offence. 7.4 However, in our view, the expression “the accused” in Section 8 of the NIA Act needs to be interpreted contextually. Learned senior counsel for the petitioner submitted that the said expression has to be read narrowly and as per its plain meaning as referring to only “the accused” in respect of whom a Scheduled Offence is being investigated by the NIA and if such an accused has committed any other offence which is connected to the Scheduled Offence then such other offence could also be investigated by the NIA provided there is a connection with the Scheduled Offence. In other words, the argument was, that in the first place, the investigation must be of “the accused” who is accused of a Scheduled Offence and not any other accused. Next, it is only in respect of such an accused if any other offence is alleged to have been committed by him which is connected with the Scheduled Offence, which could also be investigated by the NIA on the strength of Section 8 of the NIA Act.