The same was merely revised on 02.11.2007 i.e., after a period of over 2 years. 24. We have no hesitation to hold that such revision of rate was within the power of the Corporation. However, at this very stage, we are also [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1397 The Patna Municipal Corporation & Ors. v. M/s Tribro Ad Bureau & Ors. equally unhesitant to hold that the Resolution to charge enhanced royalty in exercise of purported power under Section 4316 of the Act was misplaced as royalty is not tax. It has been authoritatively clarified by this Court that royalty and tax are not one and same. As such, the Corporation’s power to charge royalty cannot be interfered with on the ground that the same is not available, either in the Act or in the Regulations concerned, as there is no question of the said ‘royalty’ being a tax. Section 431 of the Act, therefore, would not come into the picture where royalty, that too by way of and under an agreement/ understanding is concerned. As stated previously, royalty and tax cannot be equated – the nomenclatures cannot be used interchangeably in law, both carrying starkly different imports and connotations. For reasons above, we are unable to maintain as tenable the argument that the demand made by the Corporation was a compulsory exaction. Equally, we are unable to state that the demand was/bore the hallmarks of a tax. The long and short of it is that ‘Whatever be the nomenclature, the charges … in the present cases were for the privilege enjoyed …. … the basis for such charges was directly in terms of, and under the arrangement entered into between the parties, though, not referable to any statutory instrument. … For such benefit or privilege conferred upon them, the agreements arrived at between the parties contemplated payment of charges for such conferral of advantage. Such charges, in our view, were perfectly justified.’7 25. The decisions pressed into service by Respondent No.1, we are afraid, are of no aid to its case. As far as the 5-Judge Bench decision in Ghaswala (supra) is concerned, the question that arose for consideration therein was ‘whether the Settlement Commission … constituted under Section 245-B of the Income Tax Act, 1961 … has the jurisdiction to reduce or waive the interest chargeable under Sections 234-A, 234-B and 234-C of the Act, while passing s of settlement under Section 245-D(4) of the Act.’ The Court, inter alia, reasoned that ‘The Commission while exercising its quasi-judicial power of arriving at a settlement under Section 245-D cannot have the administrative power of issuing directions to other income tax 6 ‘431. Fine for not paying tax under Chapter XVII.- If any person erects, exhibits, fixes or retains any advertisement referred to in chapter XVII, without paying any tax under that chapter, he shall be punished with fine which – shall not be less than an amount equal to two times of such tax depending upon the gravity of the breach may extend up to an amount equal to five times the amount payable as such tax.’ 7 Paragraph 57 of Indsil Hydro Power and Manganese Limited (supra).