Paragraph 10 of the would reveal this position and it reads thus:- 44 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “10. After hearing counsel for the parties and considering the voluntarily offer made by the appellants, which is without prejudice to the right of defence as well as right of the prosecution to be decided at the time of final adjudication and having no bearing on the merit of the case, over and above, the amount of compensation being paid by the District Legal Services Authority, Meerut, the appellants have offered to pay an amount of Rs. 25 lacs to the victim for her medical treatment and also in view of the long custody as well as the antecedents of the appellants and also considering the fact that the appeals pertain to the year 2021 and are not likely to be listed for final argument in near future, we deem it appropriate to grant suspension of sentence of the appellants.” 11. We have no hesitation to hold that the impugned is infected with non-application of mind and non-consideration of the relevant factors required for invocation of power under Section 389 in the light of the settled position of law. An acid attack may completely strip off the victim of her basic human right to live a decent human life owing to permanent disfiguration. We have no hesitation to hold that in appeals involving such serious offence(s), serious consideration of all parameters should be made. Even a cursory glance of the impugned would reveal the consideration thereunder was made ineptly. The serious nature of the offence involved was not taken into account besides the other relevant parameters for the exercise of power under Section 389, Cr. PC. 12. In such circumstances, the impugned cannot be sustained. The upshot of the discussion is that the suspending the sentence of the private respondents and enlarging them on bail, invite interference. Consequently, the impugned is set aside and consequently the bail granted to the private respondent in all these appeals stands cancelled. Consequently, the appellants shall surrender before the trial Court for the purpose of their committal to judicial custody. This shall be done within a period of four days. In case of their failure to surrender as ed, the private respondents who are convicts shall be re-arrested and committed to custody. 13. The Appeals are allowed as above. [2024] 5 S.C.R. 45 Shivani Tyagi v. State of U.P. & Anr. Rajesh Bindal, J. 1. I have gone through the detailed reasons recorded by brother C.T. Ravikumar, J. Elaborate discussion has been made on the aspect of suspension of sentence in heinous crimes as it is a case where the High Court had directed suspension of sentence of the respondents in an acid attack case, which will haunt the victim throughout her life. The disfigurement of the face of the victim, as is evident from the photographs placed on record, could not even be seen. 2. It is a case in which after hearing the arguments raised by the appellant and going through the paper book our conscience was shocked.