62. The right to administer was considered in some depth in St. Xavier’s (supra) by Chief Justice AN Ray and Justice HR Khanna. Justice Khanna emphasised that the right to administer an institution is to effectively manage and conduct the affairs of the institution. The learned Judge held that it means shaping the institution in congruence with their vision and ideas for best serving the interests of both the community and the institution. Chief Justice AN Ray, on the other hand, observed that the right to administer has four components: (a) the right to choose its managing or governing body; (b) the right to choose the teachers; (c) the right not to be compelled to refuse admission to students; and (d) the right to use its properties and assets for the benefit of its own institutions. The right to administer as guaranteed under Article 30(1) ensures autonomy in administration and the right of choice which may not otherwise be available to a non-minority institution. The right to administration, however, does not grant a carte blanche to flout or disregard the regulations and controls established by statute, which are essential for protecting the larger public interest and maintaining educational standards. Thus, the right to administer is not impaired by factors such as rules and regulations prescribing the proper utilization of State funds, qualifications of the teachers, their remuneration and benefits, eligibility criteria for admission of students, attendance requirements and the threshold to pass the exams conducted by the board/university to which the college or school is affiliated. What is barred is the interference in the internal management and overall control of the institution. At the same time, we must clarify that a minority institution can employ non-minority employees. Non-minority individuals can be teachers or even hold the position of the academic or institution head. To 55 PA Inamdar (supra) [119]; TMA PAI [136] 56 See PA Inamdar (supra)[92,122] [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1715 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. hold otherwise, would amount to interference with the choice, as envisaged by Article 30(1). 63. This proposition was clearly elucidated by the seven-Judge Bench in PA Inamdar v. State of Maharashtra57 which was formed to cull out the ratio decidendi of the eleven - Judge Bench in TMA Pai (supra). The degree of interference of the State in the administration of an educational institution differs based on whether the institution receives aid or recognition from the Government or whether the institution was established by a minority. In PA Inamdar (supra), this Court discussed the extent of State interference in an (i) unaided and unrecognised/unaffiliated minority institution; (ii) unaided minority institution seeking recognition; and (iii) aided minority institution. In the case of the first class, the seven-Judge Bench held that the minority ‘can exercise the right to heart’s content’. Institutions that fall within the first class could even fill all the seats with students from their community.58 With respect to the second class, this Court held that the State cannot interfere in the day to day administration, including the essential ingredients of management, admission of students, recruiting staff and charging of fees.59 This Court held that the regulation must be reasonable and for the purpose of ensuring that the institution is effective for the minority and others who resort to it.60 For institutions that fall within the third class, the State can only regulate the proper utilisation of the grant without diluting the minority status of the educational institution.61 64.