In other words, while the maximum extent of punishment of either death or life imprisonment is provided for under the relevant provisions noted above, it will be for the courts to decide if in its conclusion, the imposition of death may not be warranted, what should be the number of years of imprisonment that would be judiciously and judicially more appropriate to keep the person under incarceration, by taking into account, apart from the crime itself, from the angle of the commission of such crime or crimes, the interest of the society at large or all other relevant factors which cannot be put in any straitjacket formulae.” (Emphasis Supplied) [2024] 3 S.C.R. 937 Navas @ Mulanavas v. State of Kerala It will be clear from the paragraph above that the question of fixing the number of years within the maximum, in the case of life imprisonment, was to be left to the courts. It was mandated that the courts would with its experience, knowledge of law, the talent and infrastructure after studying the detailed parts of each case, with the guidance from the jurists and judicial pronouncements revealed earlier would decide judiciously about the period of incarceration which the case warranted. It was also indicated that for this, apart from the crime itself; the angle of the commission of such crime or crimes; the interest of society at large and all other relevant facts which cannot be put in any straitjacket formulae would be taken into account. 26. Once the court decides that the death penalty is not to be imposed and also that the convict cannot be released on the expiry of 14 years, the guidelines set out in Swamy Shraddananda (supra), V. Sriharan (supra) and the line of cases which have applied these s will have to be considered and principles, if any, set out therein have to be applied. 27. How much is too much and how much is too little? This is the difficult area we have tried to address here. As rightly observed, there can be no straitjacket formulae. Pegging the point up to which remission powers cannot be invoked is an exercise that has to be carefully undertaken and the discretion should be exercised on reasonable grounds. The spectrum is very large. The principle in Swamy Shraddananda (supra) as affirmed in V. Sriharan (supra) was evolved as the normally accepted norm of 14 years was found to be grossly disproportionate on the lower side. At the same time, since it is a matter concerning the liberty of the individual, courts should also guard against any disproportion in the imposition, on the higher side too. A delicate balance has to be struck. While undue leniency, which will affect the public confidence and the efficacy of the legal system, should not be shown, at the same time, since a good part of the convict’s life with freedom is being sliced away (except in cases where the Court decides to impose imprisonment till rest of the full life), in view of his incarceration, care should be taken that the period fixed is also not harsh and excessive.