[2024] 11 S.C.R. 1602 : 2024 INSC 967 Gurmeet Kaur v. Devender Gupta & Another (Criminal Appeal No(s). 4825-4826 of 2024) 26 November 2024 [B.V. Nagarathna* and Nongmeikapam Kotiswar Singh JJ.] Issue for Consideration Issue arose whether the appellant while discharging her duty as a public servant on the relevant date, there was any excess in the discharge of the said duty which did not require the first respondent to take a prior sanction for prosecuting the appellant. Headnotes† Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 – s.197 – Prosecution of Judges and public servants – Appellant-District Town Planner (Enforcement) and 12 others forcibly entered the college of the respondent-chairman, created chaos and took away the college telephone forcibly – Complaint filed but no action taken – Thereafter, the appellant asked for the building map/ plan and other documents, and one of the accused demanded illegal gratification but the respondent refused – Consequently, the appellant forcibly entered the college premises along with police personnel with heavy machinery and equipment for demolition and after vacating the campus, the demolition took place – In a writ petition, the Local Commissioner appointed by the High Court submitted his report that the existing building was constructed prior to 2004 much before the notification whereby respondent’s college area was declared controlled area – Private complaint filed – All accused discharged except the appellant-and accused nos.2 and 4 – Summoning passed against them u/ss. 452, 506, 427, 384, 440, 166 read with s.120-B IPC – Thereafter, petition u/s. 482 CrPC by the appellant seeking quashing of the complaint, all consequential proceedings, and the summoning – High Court dismissed the petition – Correctness: *Author [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1603 Gurmeet Kaur v. Devender Gupta & Another Held: Appellant who is accused of carrying out the demolition was doing so within the scope and ambit of her authority – Not a case where appellant carried out the demolition dehors any legal backing or basis; neither was the said act of carrying out of the demolition outside the scope of her authority as the District Town Planner in the Enforcement Division – Appellant was carrying out the s of the superior officers – There is a correlation between the act of demolition and the discharge of official duty – Demolition was carried out during the course of performance of appellant’s official duties – Fact that an application was filed seeking regularisation of the construction put up by the first respondent would indicate that even according to the first respondent, there was a digression and other irregularities in the construction put up which required regularisation – It cannot be said that when such an application was pending, the appellant had no authority to demolish the construction – Impugned demolition cannot also be termed as an “excess” – First respondent ought to have sought sanction for prosecution u/s.197 – Same, not having been done vitiated the initiation of the criminal proceeding against the appellant – Thus, the summoning and the consequent steps taken by the trial court pursuant to the said summoning quashed – Since there was no prior of sanction passed u/s.197 of the CrPC, the initiation of the complaint itself, is non est.