1869 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. by it, it may proceed to hear the case and examine the correctness of the previous decision in question dispensing with the need of a specific reference or the of the Chief Justice constituting the Bench and such listing. Such was the situation in Raghubir Singh 22 and Hansoli Devi23.” (emphasis supplied) 25. In Hansoli Devi (supra), the Constitution Bench of 5 (five) Judges followed the earlier decision of the Constitution Bench of 5 (five) Judges in Pradip Chandra Parija vs. Pramod Chandra Patnaik.24 It was held in Pradip Chandra Parija (supra) that judicial discipline and propriety demands that a bench of 2 (two) learned Judges should follow a decision of a bench of 3 (three) learned Judges. But if a bench of 2 (two) learned Judges concludes that an earlier of a bench of 3 (three) learned Judges is so very incorrect that in no circumstances can it be followed, the proper course for it to adopt is to refer the matter before it to a bench of 3 (three) learned Judges setting out the reasons why it could not agree with the earlier and if the bench of 3 (three) learned Judges also comes to the conclusion that the earlier of a bench of 3 (three) learned Judges is incorrect, then a reference could be made to a bench of 5 (five) learned Judges. In view of such decision, the Constitution Bench in Hansoli Devi (supra) held the very reference itself made by 2 (two) learned Judges to be improper. 26. Campaign for Judicial Accountability and Reforms vs. Union of India 25 is also a Constitution Bench decision of recent origin of 5 (five) Judges. In a somewhat different context, the bench ruled that “there cannot be any kind of command or directing the Chief Justice of India to constitute a particular Bench”. 27. These decisions of high authority seek to reinforce the principles of judicial discipline, propriety and comity, which have been followed by the courts since time immemorial. Permitting a bench of lesser strength to doubt a decision given by a bench of greater strength 22 (1989) 2 SCC 754 23 (2002) 7 SCC 273 24 (2002) 1 SCC 1 25 (2018) 1 SCC 196 1870 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports and to refer a given issue to a still larger bench would be in the teeth of principles which are well-established and well-entrenched. Doctrines of precedents and stare decisis provide a level of certainty to individuals appearing before the court and bring a degree of objectivity in a largely subjective decision-making process. The litigant needs to have confidence that the legal position which has been chiselled on the tapestry of law by legal precedents will not be unceremoniously blown away through subsequent judicial commands, which could be ill-advised, like the vagaries of wind and weather. It would behove this Court to remember the legal maxim interest republicae ut sit finis litium, i.e., it is in the interest of the State that there be an end to litigation, and the importance of not disturbing legally sound precedents without following the procedure established by law.