9. The Court on 31.07.2024 passed the following recording the statements of Mr. Anubhav, Mr. R.P.S. Yadav and Mr. Bhagwan Singh. “1. In continuation of the yesterday’s , Mr. Anubhav, learned Advocate-on-Record whose `Vakalatnama’ has been filed on behalf of the petitioner – Bhagwan Singh in the Special Leave Petition is present in the Court. He states his full name to be Anubhav Yashwant Yadav. He further states that though on 780 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the `Vakalatnama’ he had identified and attested the signature of the petitioner, that was not correct, and that he had received the `Vakalatnama’ with the signature of the petitioner – Bhagwan Singh from the Advocate Mr. R.P.S. Yadav, who is also present in the Court. 2. Yesterday, Mr. R.P.S. Yadav was present in the Court and Mr. Anubhav was not present, and on our being asked, Mr. R.P.S. Yadav had stated that the `Vakalatnama’ was signed by the petitioner – Bhagwan Singh in his presence. Today, he states that he had received the `Vakalatnama’ already signed by the petitioner – Bhagwan Singh from one lawyer named Karan Singh Yadav, who is practicing in the Allahabad High Court. 3. The petitioner – Bhagwan Singh is also present in the Court and he states that he does not know either Mr. Anubhav or Mr. R.P.S. Yadav or Karan Singh, and that he came to know about the present proceedings having been filed in his name only when the concerned Police Station of his area came to serve notice of this Court on him in respect of the present S.L.P. proceedings. 4. Today, Mr. Nikhil Majithia, learned Advocate-on- Record states that he is also AOR but Mr. Rishi Kumar Singh Gautam has filed `Vakalatnama’ on behalf of the petitioner who states that the SLP was not filed by the petitioner. 5. In view of the above, before passing any further , let Mr. R.P.S. Yadav give the correct name, full address with Phone Number of Mr. Karan Singh who, according to him, had given the papers along with the signed `Vakalatnama’ of the petitioner to file the SLP in this Court. 6. The Registry is directed to issue notice to the Advocate Mr. Karan Singh at the address furnished by learned Advocate Mr. R.P.S. Yadav, to remain present in the Court on 9-8-2024 at 2.00 p.m. [2024] 9 S.C.R. 781 Bhagwan Singh v. State of U.P. & Ors. The address is as follows: - Chamber 8b, Old Building, High Court, Allahabad, U.P. Mobile No.9935256980 7. Let the petitioner – Bhagwan Singh file an affidavit with regard to the correct facts in respect of the present proceedings. 8. List on 9-8-2024 at 2.00 p.m.”. 10. On 09.08.2024, the said Advocate Mr. Karan Singh Yadav practicing in Allahabad High Court remained present before the Court and stated that he had received the papers of the case along with signed ‘Vakalatnama’ i.e. with the signature of the appellant-Bhagwan Singh from his client Sukhpal Singh, who happened to be the son-in-law of Bhagwan Singh.