However, the fact remains that the appellant had submitted his OBC/NCL credentials/certificates along with the application form and, his claim for admission was clearly against the Maharashtra State quota as being a domicile of the State of Maharashtra whose father was deployed as a Head Constable(General Duty)[HC(GD)] in BSF. 17. The appellant’s application was considered favourably and vide communication dated 4th August, 2023, he was granted admission in respondent No.6-College. He also paid the admission fees etc. However, without issuing any notice and without providing opportunity of being heard to the appellant, respondent No.6-College issued the letter/communication dated 9th August, 2023 cancelling his admission in the course. The said letter/communication was promptly challenged by the appellant by filing the captioned writ petition before the Nagpur Bench of the Bombay High Court on the very next day i.e. 10th August, 2023 and he was also provided interim protection by the Court. 18. Before the High Court, the appellant had placed reliance on the Division Bench in the case of Archana Sudhakar Mandulkar(supra). The relevant guidelines/rules of admission as extracted in the of Archana Sudhakar Mandulkar(supra) are quoted hereinbelow for the sake of ready reference: - “Relevant Clauses of Rules for admission (M.B.B.S.) 1986–87: Clause B deals with “Reservations”. [2024] 3 S.C.R. 713 Vansh S/o Prakash Dolas v. The Ministry of Education & The Ministry of Health & Family Welfare & Ors. Sub clause (1) of Clause B refers to Backward Class etc., sub-clause (2) to Central Government, sub-clause (3) to sons and daughters of servicemen and ex-servicemen, sub- clause (4) to miscellaneous other reservations including son/daughter of Nonresident Indians of Maharashtra origin and sub-clause (5) to Regional Reservation. Clause B(3) reads thus:— “(3) Reservation for sons and daughters of servicemen and ex-servicemen— 5 percent seats of the intake capacity of the college limited to five shall be reserved for the children of servicemen as well as ex-servicemen who are domiciles of Maharashtra. The seats so reserved are inclusive of merit; Clause B(5) reads thus:- “(5) Regional Reservation— Subject to the exception mentioned in Rule C(6)(iv) below, 70 percent of open seats, after excluding validly reserved seats, available in Government Medical Colleges situated within the jurisdiction of any University in Maharashtra, shall be reserved for the candidates who are eligible as per Rule C below and have passed the requisite qualifying examination from the School/College situated within the jurisdiction of the same University.” 19. The relevant extract from guidelines/rules of admission prevailing in NEET-UG, 2023 germane to the controversy at hand is quoted hereinbelow for sake of ready reference: - “4.8 Exception for SSC (10th) and HSC (12th) or equivalent examinations: Children of employees of Government of India or its Undertakings:- 4.8.1 The children of the employees of Government of India or its Undertaking shall be eligible for admission even though they might have passed the S.S.C. (Std.X) and/or H.S.C. (Std. XII) or equivalent exam from the recognized Institutions situated outside the State of Maharashtra, provided that such an employee of Government of India or 714 [2024] 3 S.C.R.