An independent view was directed to be furnished by the GEAC. It was observed as under: “Today, our attention has been drawn by the learned counsel for the petitioner to clause (23) of the Convention on Biological Diversity which, inter alia, recommends that in the current absence of reliable data on genetic use restriction technologies [GURT], without which there is an inadequate basis on which to assess their potential risks, and in accordance with the precautionary approach, products incorporating such technologies should not be approved by parties or field testing until appropriate scientific data can justify such testing. Further, reliance has been placed on the expert opinion of Professor Joe Cummins, Professor Jack Heinemann and Professor Dough Gurian Sherman to contend that barnase unaccompanied by its specific inhibitor barstar is known to be a potent cell poison. Traces of barnase are toxic to the rat kidney and to human cell lines. Barnase is actually being exploited as a conditional suicide gene to cause cell death in mammalian and human cells when it is induced, and cell toxicity caused by barnase may be affected by RNA interference. Relying on these experts, learned counsel contends that, as indicated in the dated 13th October, 2006, direction be issued for uprooting the plant otherwise risk is being run for permanent escape of the gene and other [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1943 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. damages which it may cause. Before we consider this prayer further, we deem it appropriate to direct G.E.A.C. to examine in detail the impact of the field test being carried also with reference to the expert opinion. We may, however, note that the applicant’s case is that it has modified its technology and is not using GURT. We say nothing on this aspect. We expect independent expert opinion from G.E.A.C. on this subject.” (Emphasis supplied) (d) On 08.05.2007, it was observed that in total, 91 field testing operations were being undertaken. It was further directed that- “The GEAC shall take sufficient precautions to see that these trials are not causing any contamination to the cultivation of neighboring fields. There should be at least 200 meters distance from the trial fields from the neighboring field having same type of cultivations. All the trials which are being conducted, the name of the scientist and other details who will be responsible for all aspects of the trials should be reported to GEAC and they should be regular supervision by them. Prior to bringing out the GM material from the green house for conduct of open field trials, the approved institution should submit a validated event specific test protocol at an LOD of at least 0.01% to detect and confirm that there has been no contamination… GEAC should also verify whether these species by commercial use create any toxicity or allergenicity to any of the users in organic conducted with these varieties of Bt cotton. If any such test has been conducted, the data should be made available to this Court.” (Emphasis supplied) (e) On 13.02.2008, the restriction placed by this Court upon granting approvals was lifted and GEAC was permitted to consider all applications.