the registering authority registering authority for for every district of the every district of the State State of Assam. of Assam. (2) An application for (2) An application for 2) An application for registration under sub- registration under sub- registration under sub- section (3) of section section (3) of section 6A section (3) of section 6A 6A of the Act shall be shall be made in Form shall be made in Form filed in Form XXIII by the XVIII, by the person to XVIII, by the person person with the registering the registering authority to the registering authority for the district for the district in which authority for the district in which he is ordinarily he is ordinarily resident, in which such person resident-(a) Within thirty within a period of thirty is ordinarily a resident days from the date of his days from the date of his within a period of thirty detection as a foreigner, detection or identification days from the date of where such detection receipt of of the takes place after the [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1185 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 commencement of the as a foreigner or, as the Foreigners Tribunal Citizenship (Amendment) case may be, within a declaring such person Rules, 1986; or period of thirty days of as a foreigner; Provided the appointment of the that the registering (b) Within thirty days of registering authority in authority may, for the appointment of the the district. reasons to be recorded registering authority for in writing, extend the the district concerned (3) The registering said period to such where such detection has authority shall, after further period as may taken place before the entering the particulars be justified in each case commencement of the of the application in a but not exceeding sixty Citizenship (Amendment) register in Form XIX, days. Rules, 1986. return a copy of the application under his (2A) A person who (3) The registering seal to the applicant. has been declared authority shall, after as a foreigner by the entering the particulars (4) One copy of every Foreigners Tribunal of the application in a application received prior to 16th July, register in Form XXIV, during a quarter shall be 2013 and has not been return a copy of the sent by the registering registered under sub- application under his seal authority to the Central section (3) of Section to the applicant. Government and the 6A for the reason of State Government of (4) One copy of every non-receipt of of Assam along with a application received the Foreigners Tribunal quarterly return in Form during a quarter shall be or refusal by the XX. sent by the registering registering authority to authority to the Central (5) The registering register such person as Government and the State authority may, and for the a foreigner on account Government of Assam reasons to be recorded of delay may, within a along with a quarterly in writing, extend the period of thirty days return in Form XXV.