While the Magistrate had taken cognizance, the High Court had quashed the proceedings for want of sanction. In such circumstances, the following observations were made: “18. The direction which had been given by this Court, as far back as in 1971 in Bhagwan Prasad Srivastava case [(1970) 2 SCC 56 : 1970 SCC (Cri) 292 : (1971) 1 SCR 317] holds good even today. All acts done by a public servant in the purported discharge of his official duties cannot as a matter of course be brought under the protective umbrella of Section 197 CrPC. On the other hand, there can be cases of misuse and/or abuse of powers vested in a public servant which can never be said to be a part of the official duties required to be performed by him. As mentioned in Bhagwan Prasad Srivastava case [(1970) 2 SCC 56 : 1970 SCC (Cri) 292 : (1971) 1 SCR 317] the underlying object of Section 197 CrPC is to enable the authorities to scrutinise the allegations made against a public servant to shield him/her against frivolous, vexatious or false prosecution initiated with the main object of causing embarrassment and harassment to the said official. However, as indicated hereinabove, if the authority vested in a public servant is misused for doing things which are not otherwise permitted under the law, such acts cannot claim the protection of Section 197 CrPC and have to be considered dehors the duties which a public servant is required to discharge or perform. Hence, in respect of prosecution for such excesses or misuse of authority, no protection can be demanded by the public servant concerned. 19. In the instant case, certain deeds and acts have been attributed to Respondent 2 and another accused, which 814 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports cannot be said to have been part of the official duties to be performed by Respondent 2. Hence, in our view, Respondent 2 was not entitled to the protection of Section 197 CrPC in respect of such acts.” (emphasis supplied) The Court, while stating that the respondent no. 2 was not entitled to the protection under Section 197 CrPC, was of the view that if the authority which has been vested in a public servant is misused or abused for committing acts which are not otherwise permitted under the law, one cannot claim recourse under Section 197 CrPC. In such circumstances, the acts committed must be considered dehors the duties which a public servant is required to discharge or perform. 61. In Urmila Devi v. Yudhvir Singh reported in (2013) 15 SCC 624, a complaint was filed by M alleging that the appellant and R were living in an illicit relationship. Therefore, the respondent Sub-Divisional Magistrate directed the Tehsildar to enquire into the matter and also directed the DSP concerned to conduct a special investigation. It was alleged that the respondent had forcibly entered the house of the appellant at 10:00 pm with his investigation team, equipped with video cameras, to carry out a search of the appellant’s house.