(ii) Further, whatever may be owned may be possessed but whatever may be possessed may not be owned. This statement is however subject to important qualifications. For example, there can be possession of an interested person without ownership of any kind. Conversely, there are many rights, which can be owned in relation to a property but which are not capable of being possessed. There are those which may be termed ‘transitory’. For example, a creditor does not possess the debt that is due to him as it is a transitory right, which in its very nature cannot survive in exercise, but a man may possess an easement over the land because it has exercise in continued existence or consistent with each other. (iii) Moving further, while discussing the concept of possession, it is necessary to understand two elements: first is animus possidendi. The intent necessary to constitute possession is the intent to appropriate to oneself the exclusive use of the thing possessed. It is an exclusive claim to a material object for the purpose of using the thing oneself by excluding interference of other persons. The claim of the possessor must be exclusive, which however need not be absolute. But animus possidendi need not amount to a claim or intent to use 898 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the thing as owner. The tenant or a pledgee may have possession no less real than that of the owner himself, just as a Custodian under the provisions of the Act in the instant case. Thus, the animus possidendi need not be a claim on one’s own behalf. A trustee or Custodian under the Act may have possession of enemy property, though he claims an exclusive right of the thing on behalf of another than himself. This is vis-à-vis third parties. He definitely does not have a right of ownership over the enemy property possessed by him as the ownership of the said property continues in the enemy. (iv) The second concept is that to constitute possession, the animus domini is not in itself sufficient but must be embodied in a corpus. There are two aspects with regard to corpus of possession: first is the relationship of the possessor to other persons and the second, is the relation of the possessor to the thing possessed. The necessary relation between the possessor and the thing possessed is such as to admit of his making such use of it as accords with the nature of the thing and of his claim to it. There must be a correlation between him and the thing possessed, which is not inconsistent with the nature of the claim he makes to it. (v) Thus, possession is acquired whenever the two elements of corpus and animus come into co-existence and it is lost as soon as either of them disappears. (vi) The modes of acquisition of possession are two in number, namely, taking and delivery. Taking is the acquisition of possession without the consent of the previous possessor such as in the case of the Custodian vis-à-vis enemy property.