It is of the essence of parliamentary system of 958 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Government that people’s representatives should be free to express themselves without fear of legal consequences. What they say is only subject to the discipline of the rules of Parliament, the good sense of the members and the control of proceedings by the Speaker. The Courts have no say in the matter and should really have none.” (emphasis supplied) 123. This Court held in Tej Kiran Jain case [Tej Kiran Jain v. N. Sanjiva Reddy, (1970) 2 SCC 272] that the word “anything” is of the widest import and is equivalent to “everything”. The only limitation arises from the words “in Parliament” which means during the sitting of Parliament and in the course of the business of Parliament. It held that, once it was proved that Parliament was sitting and its business was being transacted, anything said during the course of that business was immune from proceedings in any court. 124. This Court, in LDA [LDA v. M.K. Gupta, (1994) 1 SCC 243], was considering clause (o) of Section 2(1) of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 which defines “service”, wherein the word “any” again fell for consideration. This Court observed thus : (SCC p. 255, para 4) “4. … The words “any” and “potential” are significant. Both are of wide amplitude. The word “any” dictionarily means “one or some or all”. In Black’s Law Dictionary it is explained thus, ‘word “any” has a diversity of meaning and may be employed to indicate “all” or “every” as well as “some” or “one” and its meaning in a given statute depends upon the context and the subject-matter of the statute’. The use of the word “any” in the context it has been used in clause (o) indicates that it has been used in wider sense extending from one to all.” 125. This Court held in LDA case [LDA v. M.K. Gupta, (1994) 1 SCC 243] that the word “any” is of wide amplitude. It means “one or some or all”. Referring to Black’s Law Dictionary, the Court observed that the word “any” has a diversity of meaning and may be employed to indicate “all” or “every” as well as “some” or “one”. However, the meaning which is to be given to it would depend upon the context and the subject-matter of [2024] 1 S.C.R. 959 Jaipur Vidyut Vitran Nigam Ltd. & Ors. v. MB Power (Madhya Pradesh) Limited & Ors. the statute. 126. In K.P. Mohammed Salim [K.P. Mohammed Salim v. CIT, (2008) 11 SCC 573], this Court was considering the power of the Director General or Chief Commissioner or Commissioner to transfer any case from one or more assessing officers subordinate to him to any other assessing officer or assessing officers. This Court observed thus : (SCC p. 578, para 17) “17. The word “any” must be read in the context of the statute and for the said purpose, it may in a situation of this nature, means all.