85. The ameliorative object of the 1985 Act, as envisaged by the legislature, is sought to be achieved, inter alia, by the smooth formulation and implementation of a rehabilitation scheme. Thus, if any impediment exists to the successful execution of the scheme, such an impediment is curtailed at the outset by the embargo provided under Section 22(1) of the 1985 Act. 86. It can be said without a cavil of doubt that the proceedings in the nature of execution or distress by way of appointment of receiver or attachment of immovable property, bank accounts, etc. would affect the assets of a sick company and may inevitably come in the way of the preparation or execution of the rehabilitation scheme. However, to hold that the protective shield of Section 22(1) of the 1985 Act would apply even to those proceedings which do not have any impact on the prospects of successful formulation and implementation of the scheme, and the possibility of revival of the sick company, would run contrary to the object of the Act, which was never to confer absolute immunity or impunity on the sick company. 87. Thus, as explained in paragraph 67 of this , a perusal of the plain text of Section 22(1) of the 1985 Act brings out only two conditions for the suspension of legal proceedings to operate. However, various decisions of this Court, by necessary implication, have read into the said provision a third condition which too has to be fulfilled before a sick company can seek protection of the said provision. This third condition is that for a legal proceeding to be suspended under Section 22(1) of the 1985 Act, it should be shown to be interfering with the formulation, consideration, finalisation or implementation of a rehabilitation scheme. 88. A Single Judge of the Delhi High Court has explained very succinctly these conditions in Goyal MG Gases Pvt. Ltd. v. SBQ Steels Ltd. reported in 2016 SCC OnLine Del 5100 thus: “25. The applicability of embargo contained in Section 22(1) of SICA requires the cumulative and conjoint satisfaction of two conditions; namely; a) the proceeding sought to be suspended should clearly satisfy the ingredients of [2024] 5 S.C.R. 367 Fertilizer Corporation of India Limited & Ors. v. M/s Coromandal Sacks Private Limited Section 22(1) and fall within one or more of the categories of proceedings indicated in the said provision and b) additionally, the continuance of the proceeding should have the impact of interfering with the formulation of the scheme. 26. The Supreme Court has also made it clear that the applicability of the embargo contained in Section 22(1) of SICA depends on the facts and circumstances of each individual case; and no principle of universal application can be laid down in all such matters. 27. The use of the expressions “Firstly” and “Secondly”, in para 80 of Raheja Universal Ltd. (supra) would make it clear that both the conditions given in the have to be satisfied cumulatively. Even if the suit/proceeding is of the category contemplated in Section 22(1), that by itself will not attract the bar contained in the said provision, unless it additionally has the impact of “interfering with the formulation, consideration, finalisation or implementation of the scheme.” (Emphasis supplied) 89.