Therefore, the right to a healthy environment encapsulates the principle that every individual has the entitlement to live in an environment that is clean, safe, and conducive to their well-being. By recognizing the right to a healthy environment and the right to be free from the adverse effects of climate change, states are compelled to prioritize environmental protection and sustainable development, thereby addressing the root causes of climate change and safeguarding the well-being of present and future generations. It is imperative for states like India, to uphold their obligations under international law, including their responsibilities to mitigate greenhouse gas emissions, adapt to climate impacts, and protect the fundamental rights of all individuals to live in a healthy and sustainable environment. III. Importance of solar power as a source of renewable energy 36. There are many sources of air pollution which harm public health and infringe upon the right to a healthy environment. High levels of 26 UN Special Rapporteur on Human Rights and the Environment (1994). “Draft Declaration of Principles on Human Rights and the Environment.” Report to the UN Sub-Commission on Prevention of Discrimination and Protection of Minorities, UN Doc. E/CN.4/Sub.2/1994/9, Appendix. 27 UN Sustainable Development Goals, Accelerating SDG 7, Achievement Policy Brief- 12 Global Progress of SDG 7—Energy and Gender, UN High-Level Political Forum. 2018. <https://sustainabledevelopment. un.org/content/documents/17489PB12.pdf> [2024] 3 S.C.R. 1343 M K Ranjitsinh & Ors. v. Union of India & Ors. pollution caused by industries and vehicular pollution has left Indian cities amongst those with the poorest air quality in the world, posing significant health risks to citizens. Addressing these challenges requires prioritizing the transition to clean and sustainable energy sources, ensuring a healthier environment for all individuals in India, and safeguarding the well-being of future generations, with particular attention to the rights and needs of vulnerable communities. Therefore, while speaking about climate change, the importance of solar power cannot be overstated. In addition to being sustainable and renewable, solar energy stands out as a pivotal solution in the global transition towards cleaner energy sources. Its significance lies in its capacity to significantly reduce reliance on fossil fuels, thereby curbing greenhouse gas emissions responsible for global warming and climate change. 37. India is endowed with vast solar energy potential and receives about 5,000 trillion kWh per year of solar energy, with most regions receiving 4-7 kWh per sqm per day.28 Solar photovoltaic power offers immense scalability in India, allowing for effective harnessing of solar energy. Moreover, solar energy facilitates distributed power generation, allowing for rapid capacity addition with short lead times. The impact of solar energy on India’s energy landscape has been tangible in recent years. Decentralized and distributed solar applications have brought substantial benefits to millions of people in Indian villages, addressing their cooking, lighting, and other energy needs in an environmentally friendly manner. These initiatives have led to social and economic benefits, including reducing drudgery among rural women and girls, minimizing health risks associated with indoor air pollution, generating employment at the village level, and ultimately improving living standards and fostering economic activities.