This will affect the future of more than twelve lakh students studying across the Madarsas in UP. Further, the direction of the High Court to relocate students studying in Madarsas to regular schools will effectively shut down all Madarsas in the state and result in violation of Article 30. 33. Mr KM Natraj, Learned Additional Solicitor General, appeared for the State of Uttar Pradesh. In its Counter Affidavit, the State of Uttar Pradesh states that it had accepted the decision in the Impugned Judgement and taken steps to implement it. However, it would comply with the final decision of this Court and has accordingly, withdrawn the government which sought to implement the Impugned Judgement. Mr Nataraj contended that while some provisions of the Madarsa Act may be unconstitutional, the High Court erred in striking down the entire Madarsa Act without severing the invalid provisions from the rest of the Madarsa Act. 34. Mr Guru Krishna Kumar, learned Senior Counsel made the following submissions: a. The Act does not make any provisions to impart secular subjects as part of the curriculum and is a measure undertaken by the state to recognize and regulate “religious instruction” traceable to a particular community; b. Article 28 inter alia prohibits institutions which receive funds from the state from imparting ‘religious instruction’. Thus, as a corollary, the state cannot seek to regulate and thereby, recognize religious instruction; c. The preamble which specifies that India is a “secular” republic, Article 21-A, Article 25, Article 28, Article 30 and Article 41 all point to the “pervasive principle” of secularism underlying the Constitution. This principle militates against the state regulating religious instruction; [2024] 11 S.C.R. 393 Anjum Kadari & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. d. The striking down of the Act would only discontinue the functioning of the Board and the consequent state recognition of religious instruction. The education provided in the Madarsas and their existence would continue to be protected by Article 30; e. The word “education” in Entry 25, List III of the Seventh Schedule must be construed to mean “secular education” and cannot include “religious instruction”. Thus, the state legislature only has the competence to enact a law that regulates educational institutions, but no power to recognize and regulate religious instruction; and f. Entry 25, List III is subject to Entry 66 List I, which pertains to higher education and standards. The Parliament has enacted the UGC Act under Entry 66, List I. Section 22 of the UGC Act provides that no degrees can be conferred by any institution other than the institutions defined under the UGC Act. Thus, the provisions of the Madarsa Act which regulate higher education, at the undergraduate, graduate and grant the Board power to grant equivalent degrees are beyond the legislative competence of the state legislature. 35. Ms Madhavi Divan, learned Senior Counsel, advanced the following submissions: a. The Madarsa Act deprives students enrolled in such institutions of the benefits of mainstream, holistic, secular education, thereby violating Articles 21 and 21A; b.