There is no, and there cannot be any, ambiguity that ‘main grounds’ is totally distinct and different from the ‘allegation’ of being ‘a foreigner’. 39. For avoidance of doubt, we may restate that this does not imply that strict proof of such allegation has to be given to the accused person but the material on which such allegation is founded has to be shared with the person. For obvious reasons and as pointed out hereinbefore, at this stage, the question of the evidentiary nature of the material and/or its authenticity is not required. However, under the garb of and by taking recourse to Section 9 of the Act, the authority, or for that matter, the Tribunal, cannot give a go-by to the settled principles of natural justice. Audi alteram partem does not merely envisage a fair and reasonable opportunity of being heard. In our opinion, it would encompass within itself the obligation to share material collected with the person/accused concerned. It is no longer res integra that principles of natural justice need to be observed even if the statute is silent on that aspect, as laid down in Mangilal v State of Madhya Pradesh (2004) 2 SCC 447: ‘10. Even if a statute is silent and there are no positive words in the Act or the Rules made thereunder, there could be nothing wrong in spelling out the need to hear the parties whose rights and interest are likely to be affected by the s that may be passed, and making it a requirement to follow a fair procedure before taking a decision, unless the statute provides otherwise. The principles of natural justice must be read into unoccupied interstices of the statute, unless there is a clear mandate to the contrary. No form or procedure should ever be permitted to exclude the presentation of a litigant’s defence or stand. Even in the absence of a provision in procedural laws, power inheres in 2352 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports every tribunal/court of a judicial or quasi-judicial character, to adopt modalities necessary to achieve requirements of natural justice and fair play to ensure better and proper discharge of their duties. Procedure is mainly grounded on the principles of natural justice irrespective of the extent of its application by express provision in that regard in a given situation. It has always been a cherished principle. Where the statute is silent about the observance of the principles of natural justice, such statutory silence is taken to imply compliance with the principles of natural justice where substantial rights of parties are considerably affected. The application of natural justice becomes presumptive, unless found excluded by express words of statute or necessary intendment. Its aim is to secure justice or to prevent miscarriage of justice. Principles of natural justice do not supplant the law, but supplement it. These rules operate only in areas not covered by any law validly made. They are a means to an end and not an end in themselves. …’ (emphasis supplied) 40.