2. Adoption of the Child Marriage Free Village Initiative 2.1. Inspired by the “Open Defecation Free Village” model under the Swachh Bharat Mission, a “Child Marriage Free Village” initiative should be launched, encouraging Panchayats and community leaders to play an active role in preventing and reporting child marriages; and 2.2. This initiative will mobilize local communities to collectively discourage child marriages, with the involvement of Panchayats in monitoring and promoting “Child Marriage Free” certifications for villages and Gram Panchayats. This designation should be publicly celebrated to reinforce a culture where the rights and well-being of children are paramount. D. Awareness Campaigns 1. Awareness Campaigns Led by CMPOs in Schools, Religious Institutions, and Panchayats 1.1. CMPOs are directed to conduct regular, structured awareness campaigns across schools, religious institutions, and Panchayats. These campaigns must include impactful hoardings and slogans in local languages that highlight the legal penalties for child marriage, health risks associated with early and forced marriages, and their socio-economic consequences; and 1622 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 1.2. Schools and local institutions must conduct monthly informational sessions, leveraging creative methods like plays, storytelling, and interactive sessions to engage young people on the topic of child marriage prevention, emphasizing gender equality, reproductive rights, and personal agency. 2. Comprehensive Sexuality and Rights Education 2.1. All States and Union Territories are directed to integrate comprehensive sexuality education275 into school curricula in line with the framework prescribed by the World Health Organisation276 and leading thoughts in the field of CSE. This education must include clear information on the legal aspects of child marriage, gender equality, reproductive health rights, and the impacts of child marriage on physical and mental well-being; and 2.2. Educational content should be tailored for age- appropriateness and be culturally sensitive, with particular emphasis on empowering students with knowledge of their legal rights, the importance of delaying marriage, and understanding of sexual and reproductive health. 3. Educational Materials and Community Awareness Tools 3.1. Schools in regions where child marriage prevails must include information on child marriage prevention within the curriculum, with a dedicated section in textbooks that outlines legal protections, health risks, and preventive measures. Visible posters or charts summarizing this information should be displayed prominently in schools, Gram Panchayats, and public institutions; and 3.2. Schools must adhere to a reporting protocol whereby principals or teachers are required to report potential cases, such as sudden drop out of a girl child, to the appropriate authorities immediately. 275 ‘CSE’ 276 CSE is the imparting of accurate, age-appropriate information about sexuality and their sexual and reproductive health – which is critical for their health and survival; See World Health Organization, (2023), “What is Comprehensive Sexuality Education?”. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1623 Society for Enlightenment and Voluntary Action & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. 4. Targeted Community Awareness Campaigns 4.1. Regular community-based campaigns are mandated, specifically targeting parents, respected members of the community (including but not limited to teachers, principals and local body leaders) and local influencers. CMPOs are instructed to work with these groups to challenge entrenched social norms, using community discussions, multimedia presentations, and testimonials from child marriage survivors to shift perceptions; and 4.2.