Therefore, it cannot be presumed that the Government ever independently intended to repeal the 1974 notification which would have led to a cessation in the collection of revenue. This being the position, the result of invalidating the subsequent notifications while simultaneously giving effect to repeal of the 1974 Notification would lead to an absurd result which was never intended by the government. Thus, rather than breaking down the process of substitution into two distinct steps of repeal and enactment and analysing the effect of the invalidation disjunctively, in Central Provinces Manganese Ore and DK Trivedi & Sons, the Court asks whether it is plausible that the legislature intended to independently repeal the substituted provision. In the absence of clear evidence of such legislative intent, the process of substitution is invalidated in its entirety and the original, unamended provision continues to have legal force. 59. The position adopted in Central Provinces Manganese Ore and DK Trivedi & Sons also finds support from decisions in the US. We have already noted Justice Hidayatullah’s reliance on the US Supreme Court’s decision in Frost v Corporation Commissioner.63 However, decisions in state Courts of the United States following Frost are even more explicit in their reasoning. For example, in Texas Company v Cohn64 the Supreme Court of Washington was tasked with determining whether a 1937 taxation statute continued 63 278 U.S. 505. 64 8 Wash 2d 360 (17 April 1941, Supreme Court of Washington). [2024] 11 S.C.R. 79 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. in force after a 1939 statute had replaced it, but the subsequent statute had been invalidated by the Court. Justice Drive, speaking for the Supreme Court of Washington sitting en banc held: “The 1939 petroleum products tax law specifically repealed the 1937 statute, but it is the position of the appellants that, when the repealing act was wholly vitiated as unconstitutional by the Inland case, its repealing clause also fell. Therefore, they assert, the 1937 statute has never been legally repealed and has remained in full force and effect in contemplation of law, assuming, of course, that it is constitutional. This position, we think, is sound. It is too apparent to require much comment that the legislature, when it enacted the 1939 act, attempted to set up a new and complete fuel oil tax law in place of the 1937 statute. The earlier law was repealed only to clear the decks and give the new act unobstructed operation and effect. It does not appear that the legislature intended in any event, to repeal the prior law. Under such circumstances, the repeal clause falls within the unconstitutional statute of which it is part.” (emphasis supplied) The approach adopted by the Supreme Court of Washington was to examine the totality of the legislative circumstances and proceedings, and absent any express intention of the legislature to independently repeal the 1937 law, hold that the repeal of the 1937 law was reversed by the 1939 law being invalidated. Thus, the 1937 law continued in force.