727 Jaichand (Dead) Through Lrs. & Ors. v. Sahnulal & Anr. findings, modified the decree holding that the plaintiff is not entitled for decree for specific performance of contract as it would cause hardship to defendant No.1 and he would be entitled only decree for return/refund of earnest money, which is in the considered opinion of this Court is not correct finding particularly in view of the fact that no pleading having been raised on behalf of defendant No.1 before the trial Court based on Section 20(2)(b) of the Act of 1963 and parties did not lead any evidence on the instant issue and therefore, the first appellate Court could not have modified the decree after affirming all other findings which were required for granting relief of specific performance of contract.” 17. The appellants (original defendants) being dissatisfied with the and passed by the High Court are here before us with the present appeals. 18. It seems that the appellants herein had preferred a review application also before the High Court, which was not entertained and rejected. 19. We have heard Mr. Sameer Shrivastava, the learned counsel appearing for the appellants (original defendants) and Mr. Abhinav Shrivastava, the learned counsel appearing for the respondents herein (original plaintiffs). 20. We take notice of the following aspects of the matter:- (i) The agreement of sale between the parties is dated 24 August, 1996. (ii) The suit property ad measures half an acre. (iii) The sale consideration fixed in the agreement of sale is Rs.50,000/- per acre. Since the land ad-measures about half an acre, the sale consideration would come to Rs.25,000/-. (iv) The plaintiffs instituted the suit after a period of eight years that is in the year 2003. (v) The High Court seems to have proceeded under a misconception of fact that the first appellate court reversed the and decree passed by the trial court only on the issue of hardship, relying on the provisions of Section 20(2) (b) of the specific relief act, 1963. Whereas in fact the first appellate court also 728 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports expressed its doubt as regards the plaintiffs readiness and willingness to perform his part of the contract. 21. The High Court has not said a word in so far as the findings recorded by the first appellate court in regard to the readiness and willingness on the part of the plaintiff to perform his part of the contract is concerned. 22. In the overall view of the matter, we have reached the conclusion that the impugned passed by the High Court is not sustainable in law. The High Court ought not to have disturbed a well reasoned and passed by the first appellate court. 23. We are thoroughly disappointed with the manner in which the High Court framed the so-called substantial question of law. By any stretch of imagination, it cannot be termed even a question of law far from being a substantial question of law. How many times the Apex Court should keep explaining the scope of a second appeal under Section 100 of the CPC and how a substantial question of law should be framed?