In the instant case, there is an indivisible claim for the outstanding amount in respect of goods supplied and the work done. As already noticed above, the payment(s) under the contract were to be made on pro rata basis, dependent on work done and certificates issued, which, as per the finding in the award, were not issued. Hence, the claimant was entitled to make a composite claim for the goods supplied and the work done after the project was successfully complete i.e., when the Unit was commissioned followed by guaranteed performance. Because it is only then, when the outstanding amount, as per the Bills / Invoices raised, became due and payable to the claimant in terms of the contract. Thus, in our view, Article 18 would also not apply. 107. As it is not demonstrated that any other Article of the Schedule specially providing for the claim, as was made by R-1, was applicable, in our view, Article 55 of the Schedule was applicable to the claim, inter alia, for the following reasons: 586 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (a) The claim was for compensation (in as much as the term ‘compensation’ includes a specified amount payable under a contract107) in respect of the goods supplied and the work done under a contract; and (b) The claim was based on a breach of the contractual obligation as, according to the findings returned by the Arbitral Tribunal, the respondents to the claim (appellant(s) herein) had failed to fulfil their obligation(s) of making payment of the outstanding principal amount payable under the contract despite raising of bills / invoices by the claimant. Starting Point of Limitation for the Claim 108. Having determined that limitation for the claim would be governed by Article 55 of the Schedule to the 1963 Act, we shall now ascertain the date from which the limitation period is to be counted. 109. Under Article 55, the limitation period begins to run when the contract is broken or where there are successive breaches, when the breach in respect of which the suit is instituted occurs, or where the breach is continuing, when it ceases. 110. In the case in hand, it is nobody’s case that either party repudiated the contract. Further, the claim is not in respect of non-payment of any specific bill or invoice during execution of the contract. Rather, it is for the outstanding principal amount due to the claimant on discharge of his obligations under the contract. No doubt, list of unpaid bills / invoices was placed on record of the arbitral proceedings to demonstrate that bills / invoices were raised / issued, but the same was by way of evidence to support the claim, which was for the entire outstanding principal amount payable to the claimant on discharge of its obligations under the contract. Thus, simply put, the cause of action for the claim in question is appellant(s)’ failure to make payment of the outstanding principal amount to the claimant despite discharge of contractual obligations by it.