Digital Supreme Court Reports competency to levy any tax on exercise of mineral rights. On the other hand, what is common to both Kannadasan and Tata Iron and Steel is the fact that they proceeded on the basis that this Court, having set aside the incompetent levies imposed by the States and the Parliament, coming forward to support the States vis-à-vis their apprehension regarding refund to be made on the basis of the principle of unjust enrichment, enacted the Validation Act. The challenge to the said Act otherwise failed in Kannadasan. The contention of the assessee was only with regard to levies to be collected up to 04.04.1991 under the Validation Act and not after that date. This aspect was answered by the three-judge Bench in Tata Iron and Steel by holding that the Validation Act was in fact a temporary statute which neither gave the State the right to levy any taxes or cesses etc. which were struck-down by this Court as being incompetent nor could the States collect arrears of such taxes/cesses after 04.04.1991. 26.15 In view of the aforesaid judicial and legislative history, can this Court once again confer powers on the States to levy taxes, etc. on the exercise of mineral rights in addition to royalty by way of a cess or a surcharge on cess or independently on the basis of royalty as a measure for imposing such taxes? The majority in Kesoram has attempted to do that. This is by holding that royalty imposed under Section 9 of MMDR Act, 1957 is not a tax and therefore, the States can levy taxes on minerals rights either under Entry 50 or Entry 49 – List II. Thus, the legal quagmire has not ended but continued. 27. In my view, the majority in Kesoram is liable to be overruled for holding that royalty is not a tax for the following reasons: Firstly, because the doubt expressed in the said by the majority was premised on a “typographical error” in paragraph 34 of the main in India Cement by failing to appreciate the entire reasoning of the seven-judge Bench. It also failed to notice that in the case of India Cement, Oza, J. penned a separate but concurring opinion and arrived at a conclusion that royalty is in the [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1823 Mineral Area Development Authority & Anr. v. M/s Steel Authority of India & Anr. Etc. nature of a tax by separate reasoning. The majority in Kesoram did not find any “typographical error” in Oza, J.’s opinion. Secondly, the majority in Kesoram came to the conclusion that royalty is not a tax based on the definition of royalty in dictionary meanings, etc. without reference to the constitutional Entries, particularly, Entry 50 - List II being limited by Entry 54 - List I and a Parliamentary law MMDR Act, 1957 being made under the latter Entry and the declaration made in Section 2 thereof. In this regard, it would be useful to refer to the observations of this Court in State of Orissa vs. Titaghur Paper Mills Company Limited, 1985 Supp.