15. The details regarding the Oversight Mechanism have also been set out in the affidavit. Reference has been made to Inter Departmental Committee to be constituted by the Central Government that is required to devise its own procedure for hearing grievances/ complaints and for advising/warning/censuring/admonishing/ reprimanding the defaulting broadcaster or requiring an apology from such a broadcaster, including a warning card or a disclaimer and deletion/modification of the content. The last option is of taking the channel or the programme in question off-air for a specified time period. The affidavit also refers to the steps taken for implementation of the Cable Television Networks (Amendment) Rules, 20218. 16. The Regulatory Mechanism in respect of the Print Media and the overall action taken by the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting since 2018 has been mentioned in the affidavit. A computation of the action taken on complaints received against TV channels between the year 2018 to 03rd May, 2024 shows that a total of 1645 complaints have been received in the above duration out of which, only 53 were sent to the broadcasters, 769 were sent to the ASCI, 235 were sent to the concerned departments/regulators and 22 were sent to PCI. Only 566 complaints have been responded to. Learned ASG submits that there is no data available in the Ministry on the action if any, ultimately taken to redress the grievances received against the TV Channels. 17. The summary of the action taken against broadcasters for violation of the Advertisement Code since 2018 points a dismal picture. Action has been taken against the broadcasters for violation of the Advertisement Code in only 60 cases. Coordinated action with the Ministry of AYUSH finds separate mention in the affidavit. It also 8 In short, Amendment Rules, 2021 [2024] 6 S.C.R. 385 Indian Medical Association & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. refers to the suo moto action taken by the Ministry on grounds of obscenity. There are only 3 instances of action taken in respect of misleading advertisements aired on FM Radio. The Press Council of India is stated to have received 77 complaints relating to misleading advertisements since the year 2018. Out of those 77 cases, 39 have been closed being defective, 15 have been closed on undertaking from the respondents stating that they will not publish such advertisements in the future and 17 cases are on-going. 18. We are of the opinion that when the C.P. Act, 1986 has dedicated an entire chapter to the Central Consumer Protection Authority (Chapter III) that contemplates establishment of a Central Consumer Protection Authority9 by the Central Government to regulate matters relating to violation of the rights of the consumers, unfair trade practices and false/misleading advertisements which are prejudicial to the interest of the public and consumers and to promote, protect and enforce the rights of the consumers as a class, the said provisions ought to be used with much more vigour and intensity. 19. Learned Additional Solicitor General informs the Court that Central Government has established a Consumer Protection Authority which is functional and its powers and functions as delineated in Section 18, are fairly broad based and all encompassing.