The deficiencies are serious enough that several of the dossiers are unlikely to meet international guidelines. The regulator (GEAC) has frequently accepted conclusions based on incompletely reported data or without appropriate statistical analysis. (xi) Some tests need to be carried out for longer duration in to increase the time, of exposure so as to detect possible effects with greater confidence. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1909 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. Ht Crops (xii) Information relating to long term chronic toxicity is limited for most herbicides. Soybean accounts for the major share of Ht crops. (xiii) The use of Ht crops would encourage increased use of the herbicides with likely negative consequences for biodiversity in agricultural fields and the environment. Experimental studies of the possible impact that Ht crops can have on the biodiversity and abundance of wildlife have been limited. (xiv) Another consideration in the Indian context is a socioeconomic one wherein a significant part of the agricultural workforce is employed for manual labour in the fields. Introduction of Ht crops would be likely to reduce access to employment for some of the vulnerable sections of rural society. Recommendations (xv) It is apparent that there are major gaps in the regulatory system. These need to be addressed before issues related to tests can be meaningfully considered. (xvi) A secretariat comprising dedicated scientists with area expertise as well as expertise in biosafety needs to be established, with consultation with experts having experience at the international level in biosafety testing evaluation of GM safety. (xvii) Conflict of interest in terms of location of the regulatory body needs to be addressed. (xviii) Specific sites for conducting confined field trials need to be designated, certified, and sufficient mechanisms put in place for monitoring the trials and ensuring restricted access, disposal of material, associated testing and other facilities. (xix) Stakeholder participation, socioeconomic considerations, societal impact and sustainability should be incorporated at an early stage in the risk assessment process. 1910 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 28.4. After the above observations and discussion, the TEC answered the terms of reference in the following manner: 1. Tor A The TEC reiterated its recommendation made in the Interim Report that there should be a moratorium on field trials for Bt in food crops intended for commercialization until there is more definitive information as to long term safety of Bt in food crops. The TEC stated that it has examined the issues in relation to Ht with regard to sustainability and the likely socioeconomic impact on major sections of rural society. It reached the conclusion that Ht crops would most likely exert a highly adverse impact on sustainable agriculture, rural livelihoods and environment. The TEC found them completely unsuitable in the Indian Context. It is pertinent here to notice the corrigendum brought by the TEC dated 12.07.2013 wherein the above line was expanded and a complete ban on Ht crops in India was recommended by the TEC. The TEC further recommended that release of genetically modified crops for which India is a centre of origin or diversity should not be allowed.