This was having regard to Regulation 34 read with Appendix-VII which is a complete code for grant of TDR. It was submitted that the scheme of an additional 100% TDR on account of construction of an amenity was in lieu of payment of compensation in an acquisition proceeding. 3.4 The contention of the Mumbai Municipal Corporation, on the other hand, was that the decision of this Court in Godrej & Boyce I, was per incuriam as it ignored the effects of Regulation 33 of the DCR. It was contended that if the compensation had been paid partly or fully by any means, TDR could not be granted. That in the case of the writ petitioners, the compensation in the form of 10% or 25% additional TDR had already been granted and the notification dated 16.11.2016 had removed the basis of the decision of this Court in Godrej & Boyce I and there was now a prohibition for issuance of TDR in favour of the persons who had already been compensated. They further contended that the impugned notification would apply even to cases pending before the High Court and the Mumbai Municipal Corporation as the in Godrej & Boyce I had been nullified by the 838 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports said notification. Further, there cannot be 100% TDR in respect of the area of the amenity developed, and therefore, to cure the defect, the notification dated 16.11.2016 was enforced and that the DCR applicable on the date of deciding an application for grant of development permission would govern the decision on the application. 3.5 By way of reply, the writ petitioners contended before the High Court that the notification dated 16.11.2016 was not a validating Act. It was merely a delegated legislation which could not nullify the of the Apex Court. The right to claim TDR on the development of the amenity vests in the owner the moment the permission is granted by the Municipal Corporation to construct the road/amenity. The in Godrej & Boyce I is not per incuriam and had been applied in other subsequent cases. The object of giving a benefit under Regulation 34 is owing to lack of financial capacity of the Municipal Corporation to construct amenities by itself. Hence, the writ petitioners sought relief under Regulation 34 of the DCR. Consideration by the High Court: 4. On a consideration of the rival submissions and taking note of the fact that the contention of the Mumbai Municipal Corporation was that the decision of this Court in Godrej & Boyce I was per incuriam, the High Court considered the provisions of the Act and the Regulations in extenso. The High Court noted that in almost all the cases the action of surrendering the land and developing the amenities had been completed by 17.06.2010 when Regulation 33 underwent an amendment. Therefore, on a consideration of the erstwhile Regulation 33, the High Court observed that the same was applicable to a case where the owner, including a lessee, had surrendered the land or area required for road widening or for construction of a new road proposed under the development plan or those proposed under the Mumbai Municipal Corporation Act, 1888 (“the Act of 1888” for short).