37. We shall conclude our discussion with a quote from the book “Top Soil and Civilization” by Tom Dale and Vernon Gill Carter, published by the University of Oklahoma Press, (1955) “Man, whether civilised or savage, is a child of nature — he is not the master of nature. He must conform his actions to certain natural laws if he is to maintain his dominance over his environment. When he tries to circumvent the laws of nature, he usually destroys the natural environment that sustains him. And when his environment deteriorates rapidly, his civilisation declines...” APPROACH OF THE COURT 38. This Court has repeatedly reiterated the approach required to be adopted by the courts where the onus is on the violator to prove that there is no environmental degradation. There is a constitutional duty enjoined upon every court to protect and preserve the environment. Courts will have to apply the principle of parens patriae in light of the constitutional mandate enshrined in Articles 48A, 51A, 21, 14 and 19 of the Constitution of India, 1950. Therefore, the burden of proof lies on a developer or industrialist and also on the State in a given case to prove that there is no such degradation. [2024] 5 S.C.R. 125 The State of Telangana & Ors. v. Mohd. Abdul Qasim (Died) Per LRs. 39. Not being an adversarial litigation, the court shall utilise all possible resources, including scientific inventions, in its endeavour to preserve the environment. While adopting an ecocentric approach, the concept of inter-related existence has to be kept in mind. A narrow or pedantic approach should be avoided. While considering the economic benefits, the invisible value and benefits provided by the forests shall also be factored into. There has to be an inclusive approach, which should be society centric, meaning thereby that all species should co-exist with minimum collateral damage. The effort is to minimise the damage to the environment, even in a case where the need for human development is indispensable. While having a pragmatic and practical approach, courts will have to weigh in the relevant factors and thus, perform a balancing act. PRECEDENTS Uncertainty of Science and Burden of Proof ● A.P. Pollution Control Board v. Prof. M.V. Nayudu, (1999) 2 SCC 718 “36. We shall next elaborate the new concept of burden of proof referred to in the Vellore case [(1996) 5 SCC 647] at p. 658. In that case, Kuldip Singh, J. stated as follows: (SCC p. 658, para 11) “(iii) The ‘onus of proof’ is on the actor or the developer/ industrialist to show that his action is environmentally benign.” 37. It is to be noticed that while the inadequacies of science have led to the “precautionary principle”, the said “precautionary principle” in its turn, has led to the special principle of burden of proof in environmental cases where burden as to the absence of injurious effect of the actions proposed, — is placed on those who want to change the status quo [Wynne, Uncertainty and Environmental Learning, 2 Global Envtl.