The appellant asserts that the High Court introduced an entirely new ground—whether the marriage had irretrievably broken down—without this issue being argued in the earlier proceedings. This, the appellant argues, goes against established principles that the High Court cannot reappreciate evidence or interfere with findings unless they are unsupported by evidence, based on a misreading of material evidence, or are manifestly unreasonable. 18. The appellant highlights that the respondent had not raised any grounds for interference with the concurrent findings in the second appeal under Section 100, CPC. The appellant supports this contention by citing the decision of this Court in State of Rajasthan & Ors. vs. Shiv Dayal & Anr,5 which reiterates the limited scope of second appeals. The appellant further argues that the First Appellate Court had already conducted a detailed reappreciation of the evidence and reached a reasoned conclusion. Therefore, the High Court lacked jurisdiction to revisit these findings. 19. The appellant also submits that the High Court erred in addressing the issue of condonation under Section 23(1)(b) of HMA. Referring to this Court’s decision in N.G. Dastane vs. S. Dastane,6 the appellant asserts that acts of cruelty or desertion were condoned when the parties reconciled and resumed cohabitation after the filing of a complaint. The appellant emphasizes that the respondent husband, during cross-examination, admitted that the death of his father was 4 In short, ‘CPC’ 5 [2019] 10 SCR 243 : (2019) 8 SCC 637 6 [1975] 3 SCR 967 : (1975) 2 SCC 326 [2024] 12 S.C.R. 763 Amutha v. A.R. Subramanian unrelated to the appellant’s actions, undermining the claim of cruelty. The appellant argues that the High Court failed to appreciate this evidence and incorrectly reversed the concurrent findings of the lower Courts. 20. Lastly, the appellant underscores that the respondent did not seek divorce on the grounds of desertion under Section 13(1)(ib) of HMA but instead benefited from his own wrongful actions. The appellant claims that the respondent deserted her and then sought divorce on fabricated grounds. The appellant states that she does not wish to burden her daughter with the stigma of divorce, nor is she seeking financial support from the respondent. She simply wishes to uphold her dignity and safeguard her family’s reputation. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT 21. The respondent argues that the marriage has irretrievably broken down and should be dissolved to allow both parties to move on with their lives. He submits that the appellant subjected him to cruelty, including filing frivolous criminal complaints against him and his family. The respondent claims that these complaints caused mental agony and created an irreparable rift between the parties. The respondent asserts that the High Court rightly considered the irretrievable breakdown of the marriage as a ground for divorce, even though it was not explicitly raised in the earlier proceedings. 22. The respondent further contends that the appellant’s allegations of cruelty and desertion were baseless and unsupported by evidence. He argues that the appellant lodged complaints against him and his family, which amounted to harassment.