The very same M. Ashok was also associated as a panch witness in the trap proceedings which cannot be by a mere chance or coincidence. The association of M. Ashok as a panch witness in the trap proceedings in the backdrop of the fact that the appellant (AO1) had imposed penalty of Rs.50,000/- on the same person is very significant and gives rise to a strong suspicion that M. Ashok might have been instrumental in orchestrating the trap proceedings. What lends assurance to this conclusion is that the DySP(PW-10) admittedly made no investigation whatsoever regarding the ownership or licence of the saw-mill where the incident dated 6th January, 2003 took place. 48. It is absolutely unnatural that the DySP (PW-10) would have blindly accepted the version of the complainant (PW-1) that the appellant (AO1) had made a search on his licenced premises and imposed a fine of Rs.50,000/- on account of the recovery of teakwood illegally stored in the said mill. Since M. Ashok paid the compounding fee of Rs.50,000/- and the cash receipt (Exhibit P-2) was also issued in his name, any prudent person would presume that it was M. Ashok who was operating the saw-mill. The complainant (PW-1) consciously tried to project that M. Ashok was merely a labourer in his mill. However, his version is falsified in face of the receipt (Exhibit P-2) which portrays that M. Ashok had paid the compounding fee which was a very heavy amount to the tune of Rs.50,000/-. If the recovery of teakwood has been effected from the mill being operated by the complainant (PW-1) then, there was no reason as to why compounding fees would be charged from M. Ashok. In view of these facts, there was no justification for the DySP (PW-10) to have straightaway register the FIR on the mere ipse dixit of the complainant (PW-1) and to have planned the trap proceedings without the minimum endeavour to verify the background facts leading to the alleged demand of bribe. A prudent and unbiased police officer [2024] 7 S.C.R. 663 Mir Mustafa Ali Hasmi v. The State of A.P. would be persuaded to make at least a basic enquiry into these facts rather than following the dictat of the complainant (PW-1). It may be highlighted that the prosecution very conveniently chose not to examine the said M. Ashok S/o Abbaiah as a witness in the case. 49. Admittedly, as per the complaint (Exhibit P-1), the appellant (AO1) as well as the forest guard N. Hanumanthu (AO2) both demanded the bribe from the complainant (PW-1). The complainant (PW-1) in his evidence, stated that the appellant (AO1) and AO2 threatened him frequently by making mobile calls and pressurised him to pay up the mamool amount of Rs.5,000/- or to face adverse consequences. However, as discussed above, this allegation of the complainant (PW-1) is belied by the call detail records and the evidence of B. Arun Madhav (PW-6). 50. Since the receipt of Rs.50,000/- had been issued in the name of M. Ashok, there could not have been any rhyme or reason for DySP (PW-10) to have accepted the bald version of the complainant (PW- 1) that the raid had been made at a premises licenced in the name of his wife.