Even that was not done. 10. The present appellants sought a review of this . The contentions raised by them can be briefly stated as follows: a) Out of 30 review petitioners, review petitioner nos. 7 to 18 were purportedly shown as interveners in the “Minutes of ”, though they had not engaged any advocate; b) The said interveners never met the advocate who is shown to have signed the “Minutes of ” on their behalf; c) The appellants had rights in respect of the several properties which were likely to be adversely affected by the construction of the compound wall; and d) The elementary principles of natural justice were not followed before permitting the construction of a compound wall under police protection. A Division Bench dismissed the review petition by the impugned . The Court held that if, according to the appellants, any illegality has been committed, notwithstanding the observations made in the dated 16th March 2022, the appellants can raise an appropriate grievance before the appropriate forum. 11. The dated 9th February 2024 passed by this Court on the present appeal reads thus: “We direct the State Government to comply with the earlier of filing the affidavit. The said affidavit to be filed within a period of two weeks from today. The minutes of the on page 63 of the Petition record the statement of the owners, which reads thus: “iii...The Petitioners shall ensure that sufficient access is provided for the other owners of land whose property falls within the confines of the boundary wall in such a manner that the same do not become land locked by virtue of the construction of the boundary wall.” We direct the petitioners before the High Court who are parties here to file an affidavit stating the names of the 166 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports owners who are referred to in Clause iii of the minutes of the . The said affidavit to be filed within a period of two weeks. The learned counsel appearing for the petitioners will take instructions whether the petitioners want to stand by the allegations made by him against the sitting Judges of the High Court, the members of the Bar and the learned Advocate General. List on 11th March, 2024.” A further dated 11th March 2024 was passed, which reads thus: “ Notwithstanding the dated 9th February, 2024, the petitioners before the High Court have chosen not to disclose the names of the parties who are referred in the Minutes of the . The learned senior counsel appearing for the petitioners before the High Court and the learned counsel appearing for the State assure the Court that within two weeks from today, they will place on record the names and other details of the parties who are referred in clause (3) of the Minutes of the dated 16th March, 2022. The learned senior counsel appearing for the petitioners before the High Court seeks time to file a proper affidavit in terms of the dated 9th February, 2024.