The assertion on part of the Appellant that “establish” ought to be given a wider meaning owing to the context in which it occurs is also unmerited on the same count. It must be noted that the right under Article 30 is an important and exceptional right/protection extended by the Constitution to a specific class, for a specific purpose, in a particular circumstance. The extension of the same over and beyond what the Constitution contemplates would dilute the constitutional guarantee itself and would be counter-productive to the interests of the minorities themselves. 155. As held by this Court, the objective of Article 30 is not to afford a false sense of security and confidence to pretenders posing as minorities. It was for this reason that this Court in 1988 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports A.P. Christian Medical Educational Society [supra] cautioned against what it referred to as masked phantoms. It is imperative to interpret the Constitution in a manner that ensures the sacred protection under Article 30 is extended only to institutions genuinely representing the minority community, in substance and not merely in appearance. 156. From the above it is amply clear that the meaning of the word “establish” under Article 30 has indeed been understood by this Court consistently to mean ‘to bring into existence’. The meaning of “establish” in Black’s Law Dictionary 6th Edn. is as under: “xxx (3) To found, to create, to regulate; as: “Congress shall have power to establish post-roads and post- offices.” (4) To found, recognize, confirm, or admit; as: “Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion.” (5) To create, to ratify, or confirm; as: “We, the people,” etc., “do ordain and establish this constitution.” To settle or fix firmly; place on a permanent footing; found; create; put beyond doubt or dispute; prove; convince. To bring into being; to build; to constitute; to create; to erect; to form, to found; to found and regulate, to institute, to locate; to make; to model; to organize; to originate; to prepare; to set up.” 157. Similarly, the Webster’s Third New International Dictionary defines “establish” as – “To bring into existence, create, make, start, originate, found or build as permanent or with permanence in view”. The P.Ramanatha Aiyer’s Law Lexicon defines it as – “To found, recognize, confirm or admit, to make or form”. The Black’s Law Dictionary, 9th edition defines it as – “to settle, make or fix firmly, to enact permanently, to make, form or bring into existence.” The Bouvier Law Dictionary defines it as – “Creation or authorization of an operation or institution. Establishment is the act of creating or recognizing in law or in fact any institution, office, place or person so that the person or thing established has an authority or certain privileges that are recognized by others”. The Oxford Dictionary of English defines it as – “To set up on a firm or permanent basis, initiate [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1989 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors.