He fervently contended that it is impossible to believe that after having received such grave debilitating injuries as described in the postmortem report, Jeeva(deceased) would have been in a physical or mental condition to ascend and descend five flights of stairs and that too without exhibiting any sign of discomfort. (vi) Shri Raval urged that Jeeva(deceased) had been sent to the Sabarmati Central jail on 11th June, 1992 at around 6:30 pm after being remanded to judicial custody. As per Shri Raval, the 374 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports probability of Jeeva(deceased) having been assaulted by co- prisoners in the prison cannot be ruled out and is rather more probabilized considering the fact that the injuries noticed on the body of the victim were fresh in nature as per Dr. Nayan Kumar- Medical Jurist(PW-9). To emphasize the above contention, Shri Raval referred to the testimony(Exhibit-49) of the Medical Jurist(PW-9) who categorically stated that the injuries caused to Jeeva(deceased) were fresh and would have been suffered within six hours of the death. (vii) Shri Raval referred to the testimony of Udesingh Himmatsingh Chauhan(PW-8) who stated that he had seen the red dust over the clothes of dead body. He also claimed to have seen Sabarmati Central jail from inside and stated that the soil of the jail was red in colour. Based on the deposition of PW-8, Shri Raval contended that when the inquest(Exhibit-45) was carried out, the dead body of Jeeva was found smeared with red soil which is typical to the Sabarmati Central jail. He thus urged that there is imminent probability that Jeeva(deceased) must have suffered the fatal injuries while being confined at the Sabarmati Central jail. (viii) That the so-called eyewitnesses(Selvin Prabhakar(PW-1), Dhanlakshmi Vaiyapuri(PW-2) and Nyakar Vasudev(PW-3)) emphatically stated that Jeeva(deceased) was beaten on same parts of the body both by the accused appellant(A1) and co- accused(A2). Shri Raval urged that it is impossible to believe that two accused who assaulted the deceased at different intervals would selectively target the same parts of the body to land the blows. (ix) That the accused appellant(A1) was a seasoned police officer and hence, it does not stand to reason that he would use sticks to assault the victim so as to leave behind visible marks and risk the chance of the injuries being detected. He submitted that clearly Jeeva(deceased) had been assaulted at the Sabarmati Central jail and a totally false case has been foisted by the family members of Jeeva(deceased) to wreak vengeance against the accused persons on account of the fact that Jeeva(deceased) was a known bootlegger and had been arraigned in number of criminal cases by the police officials. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 375 Vinod Jaswantray Vyas (Dead) Through Lrs v. The State of Gujarat On these counts, learned senior counsel implored the Court to accept the appeal, set aside the impugned and acquit the accused appellant of the charges. Submissions on behalf of the respondent-State: - 13. Per contra, Ms. Deepanwita Priyanka, learned Standing Counsel for the State of Gujarat, vehemently and fervently opposed the submissions advanced by the learned senior counsel for the appellant.