Learned counsel for the respondent-Corporations strongly refuted these contentions and contended that the impugned was perfectly justified in holding that the decision of this Court in V.R. Kalliyanikutty (supra) has not considered the holding in Bombay Dyeing (supra) and Tilokchand Motichand (supra). Questions that arise for this Court’s consideration 8. The questions that fall for consideration are, firstly, are the appellants right in contending that the recovery proceedings initiated against them under the Recovery of Dues Act are barred in view of the principle laid down in V.R.Kalliyanikutty (supra). Secondly, if they are right, then is the decision in V.R. Kalliyainkutty (supra) contrary to the holding in Bombay Dyeing and Manufacturing Company Limited (supra) and if so what is the course open for this two-Judge Bench. Reasoning in V.R. Kalliyanikutty (supra) 9. To appreciate these contentions, we need to first understand the law laid down in V.R. Kalliyanikutty (supra). The primary question of law involved in V.R. Kalliyanikutty (supra) was, whether a debt which is barred by the law of limitation can be recovered by resorting to recovery proceedings under the Kerala Revenue Recovery Act, 1968. This apart, the Bench, after setting out the scheme of the Kerala Revenue Recovery Act, examined the further question as to whether the object of the Kerala Revenue Recovery Act was only for speedy recovery or if the said Act also enlarged the right to recover. Additionaly, the Bench addressed the question as to whether the words “amount due” would refer to the amounts repayable under the terms of the Loan Agreement executed between the debtor and the creditor irrespective of whether the claim was time-barred or whether the words refer to only those claims which are legally recoverable. 244 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 10. Relying upon Hansraj Gupta vs. Dehra Dun-Mussorie Electric Tramway Co. Ltd., AIR 1933 PC 63, the Bench in Kalliyanikutty (supra) held that the Kerala Recovery Act did not create any new right and that it merely provided a process for speedy recovery. In view of the same, it held that since the Act did not create any right, the person claiming recovery cannot claim recovery of amounts which are not legally recoverable. The Bench thereafter distinguished the in Khadi Gram Udyog Trust v. Ram Chandraji Virajman Mandir, Sarasiya Ghat, Kanpur, (1978) 1 SCC 44 as having no applicability to the interpretation of the Kerala Revenue Recovery Act. It further relied on the of this Court in Director of Industries, U.P. vs. Deep Chand Agarwal (1980) 2 SCC 332 to reinforce its holding on the interpretation of the word ‘due’ under the Kerala Revenue Recovery Act. The plea that the statute of limitation merely bars the remedy and does not touch upon the right was not accepted by the Court by holding that the rights of the parties are not enlarged by the Kerala Revenue Recovery Act and that unless the Act expressly provided for enlargement of claims extending to the recovery of barred debts, that principle will not apply.