the Commissioner of Police, Rachakonda, 2) The Principal Secretary to Government (Political) General Administration Dep. Telangana, Hyderabad and 3) The Advisory Board or if you choose to make any representation, you may submit your representation with sufficient number of copies to the Jail Superintendent for onward transmission. You also have a right to appear before the Advisory Board and also to avail the assistant of a person other than a lawyer to represent your case.” 7. Thus, from the aforesaid it is evident that the respondent No. 2 herein was subjectively satisfied based on the materials on record that the activities of the appellant detenu were prejudicial to the maintenance of public . According to the Detaining Authority, i.e., the respondent No. 2, the appellant is a “GOONDA” as defined under Section 2(g) of the Act 1986 and with a view to preventing him from acting in any manner prejudicial to the maintenance of public , it was felt necessary that the appellant be preventively detained. B. IMPUGNED OF THE HIGH COURT 8. The appellant detenu being aggrieved by the of preventive detention preferred Writ Petition No. 26941 of 2023 in the High Court for the State of Telangana at Hyderabad seeking a writ of Habeas Corpus. The High Court vide its impugned and declined to interfere and accordingly rejected the writ petition. 9. The High Court while rejecting the writ application filed by the appellant detenu made the following observations: - [2024] 3 S.C.R. 1201 Nenavath Bujji Etc. v. The State of Telangana and Ors. “16.While passing the detention , the detaining authority not only considered the commission of offences committed by the detenus and their associates, but also considered its impact disturbing ‘public ’ and also the modus operandi adapted by them in commission of offences. Therefore, in to prevent the detenus from committing similar offences, the impugned detention was passed. xxx xxx xxx 21. As discussed above, the detenus have committed the aforesaid two (02) offences of robbery and chain snatchings and creating panic and scare among the public, especially in women folk. Thus, they have engaged in unlawful activities by committing the said bodily and property offences, which are serious and grave in nature, and thereby acting in a manner prejudicial to the maintenance of ‘public ’ as it disturbs peace and tranquility in the society. Further, the police also seized motorbikes used in commission of the offences. 22. In view of the same, it is clear that the said acts committed by the detenus would certainly create large scale panic in general public, more particularly women folk. All the said aspects were considered by the detaining authority while passing detention . The aspects of modus operandi and the acts committed by the detenus and their associates in commission of offences and filing of petitions by the police seeking cancellation of bail granted to the detenus were also considered by the detaining authority while passing detention . Therefore, viewed from any angle, we are of the considered view that there is no error in impugned detention s dated 12.09.2023 passed by the respondent No.