This Court in Valji Khimji (supra) held that once an auction is confirmed the objections to the same should not ordinarily be allowed, except on very limited grounds like fraud as otherwise no auction would ever be complete. The relevant observations read as under: - “11. It may be noted that the auction-sale was done after adequate publicity in well-known newspapers. Hence, if any one wanted to make a bid in the auction he should have participated in the said auction and made his bid. Moreover, even after the auction the sale was confirmed by the High Court only on 30-7-2003, and any objection to the sale could have been filed prior to that date. However, 1736 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports in our opinion, entertaining objections after the sale is confirmed should not ordinarily be allowed, except on very limited grounds like fraud, otherwise no auction-sale will ever be complete. xxx xxx xxx 29. [...] It may be mentioned that auctions are of two types – (1) where the auction is not subject to subsequent confirmation, and (2) where the auction is subject to subsequent confirmation by some authority after the auction is held. 30. In the first case mentioned above, i.e. where the auction is not subject to confirmation by any authority, the auction is complete on the fall of the hammer, and certain rights accrue in favour of the auction-purchaser. However, where the auction is subject to subsequent confirmation by some authority (under a statute or terms of the auction) the auction is not complete and no rights accrue until the sale is confirmed by the said authority. Once, however, the sale is confirmed by that authority, certain rights accrue in favour of the auction- purchaser, and these rights cannot be extinguished except in exceptional cases such as fraud.” (Emphasis supplied) 214. In Ram Kishun & Ors. v. State of Uttar Pradesh & Ors. reported in (2012) 11 SCC 511 this Court although held that where public money is to be recovered such recovery should be done expeditiously, yet the same must be done strictly in accordance with the procedure prescribed by law. However, this Court after examining a plethora of other decisions further held that once the sale has been confirmed it cannot be set aside unless a fundamental procedural error has occurred or sale certificate had been obtained by misrepresentation or fraud. The relevant observations read as under: - “13. Undoubtedly, public money should be recovered and recovery should be made expeditiously. But it does not mean that the financial institutions which are concerned only with the recovery of their loans, may be permitted to behave like property dealers and be permitted further to dispose of the secured assets in any unreasonable [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1737 Celir LLP v. Mr. Sumati Prasad Bafna & Ors. or arbitrary manner in flagrant violation of the statutory provisions. xxx xxx xxx 28. In view of the above, the law can be summarised to the effect that the recovery of the public dues must be made strictly in accordance with the procedure prescribed by law.