46. The POCSO is a manifestation of the unique scheme formed by Article(s) 15 and 39 respectively of the Constitution and the obligation cast by the United Nations Convention on Rights of Children that was ratified by India. Article 15 more particularly sub-article (3) read with Article 39(f) of the Constitution i) enables the State to make special provisions for children AND ii) at the same time obligates the State to direct its policy towards ensuring that the tender and vulnerable age of children is not exploited or abused and to secure a dignified and healthy childhood and youth, free from any moral or material abandonment or exploitation. The UN Convention on Rights of Children prescribes a set of standards that have to be ensured 192 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports by all State parties including India to secure the best interest of the child and to specifically undertake preventive measures against any form of exploitation of children such as prostitution, unlawful sexual activity or pornographic performances and depictions. The POCSO is a legislative manifestation towards realization of these constitutional provisions, by providing a specialized framework to combat and prevent any and all forms of sexual abuse and exploitation as stated in its long Preamble. The relevant portion of the long Preamble of the POCSO reads as under: - “An Act to protect children from offences of sexual assault, sexual harassment and pornography and provide for establishment of Special Courts for trial of such offences and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto. Whereas clause (3) of article 15 of the Constitution, inter alia, empowers the State to make special provisions for children; And whereas, the Government of India has acceded on the 11th December, 1992 to the Convention on the Rights of the Child, adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations, which has prescribed a set of standards to be followed by all State parties in securing the best interests of the child; And whereas it is necessary for the proper development of the child that his or her right to privacy and confidentiality be protected and respected by every person by all means and through all stages of a judicial process involving the child; And whereas it is imperative that the law operates in a manner that the best interest and well being of the child are regarded as being of paramount importance at every stage, to ensure the healthy physical, emotional, intellectual and social development of the child; And whereas the State parties to the Convention on the Rights of the Child are required to undertake all appropriate national, bilateral and multilateral measures to prevent – [2024] 10 S.C.R. 193 Just Rights for Children Alliance & Anr. v. S. Harish & Ors. (a) the inducement or coercion of a child to engage in any unlawful sexual activity; (b) the exploitative use of children in prostitution or other unlawful sexual practices; (c) the exploitative use of children in pornographic performances and materials; And whereas sexual exploitation and sexual abuse of children are heinous crimes and need to be effectively addressed.” 47.