Hostile discrimination is writ large over the face of the impugned Act and it discloses no grounds for such legislative intervention. For all that appears no compelling public interests were involved. Even the Preamble to the original Ordinance was omitted. Nor did Respondents 1 and 2 file any counter-statement in this proceeding explaining the circumstances which led to the enactment of such an 468 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports extraordinary measure. There is thus nothing in the record even by way of allegation which the petitioner need take steps to rebut. Supposing, however, that the impugned Act was passed on the same grounds as were mentioned in the Preamble to the repealed Ordinance, namely, mismanagement and neglect prejudicially affecting the production of an essential commodity and causing serious unemployment amongst a section of the community, the petitioner could hardly be expected to assume the burden of showing, not that the Company’s affairs were properly managed, for that is not his case, but that there were also other companies similarly mismanaged, for that is what, according to the respondents, he should prove in to rebut the presumption of constitutionality. In other words, he should be called upon to establish that this Company and its shareholders were arbitrarily singled out for the imposition of the statutory disabilities. How could the petitioner discharge such a burden? Was he to ask for an investigation by the Court of the affairs of other industrial concerns in India where also there were strikes and lockouts resulting in unemployment and cessation of production of essential commodities? Would those companies be willing to submit to such an investigation? And even so, how is it possible to prove that the mismanagement and neglect which is said to have prompted the legislation in regard to this Company was prevalent in the same degree in other companies? In such circumstances, to cast upon the petitioner a burden of proof which it is as needless for him to assume as it is impracticable to discharge is to lose sight of the realities of the case.” [emphasis supplied] 33. His Lordship Sastri, J. found that the enactment dealing with the single entity i.e., Sholapur Mill was plainly discriminatory in character and within the constitutional inhibition of Article 14 of the Constitution. His Lordship observed that if a law is made applicable to a class of persons or things and the classification is based upon differentia having a rational relation to the object sought to be attained, there can be no objection to its constitutional validity. In such cases, even legislation dealing with single entity would be valid. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 469 Khalsa University and Another v. The State of Punjab and Another 34. While disagreeing with the majority view with regard to burden of proving that the impugned enactment was unconstitutional lay on the petitioner and that the petitioner had failed to adduce any evidence in that regard, His Lordship observed that though all reasonable presumption must be made in support of the constitutional validity of a law made by a competent legislature, the facts and circumstances of the said case would seem to exclude such a presumption.