The RBI has also submitted that there is no question of the RBI being directed to impose any a cap on the rate of interest, either on the banking sector as a whole, or in respect of any one particular bank, contrary to the provisions contained in the Banking Regulation Act, and the circulars/directions issued thereunder. 36. Even on merits, it has been submitted that the interest rates on advances are determined by individual banks as per their internal [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1503 Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corp. Ltd. v. Awaz & Ors. policies approved by their Board of Directors, subject to the regulatory guidelines contained in the Master Direction-Reserve Bank of India (Interest Rate on Advances) Directions, 2016 issued vide DBR. Dir. No. 85/13/03/00/2015-16 dated March 3, 2016 (as updated till September 12, 20230. In regard to fixed rate loans, it has been specified that the fixed rate of tenor below 3 years shall not be less than the benchmark rate for similar tenor. 37. It has been submitted that in terms of the regulatory guidelines issued vide Master Direction-Credit Card & Debit Card-Issuance and Conduct dated April 21, 2022 as on March 07, interest charged on credit cards shall be justifiable having regard to the cost incurred and the extent of return that could be reasonably expected by the card user. 38. Most pertinently, it is the assertion of the Reserve Bank of India, that it is only the Hon’ble Supreme Court under Article 32 and the High Courts under Article 226, that have the power of judicial review of statutory instruments. It is not within the executive domain of the National Commission to judicially review the circulars/directives and hold that the policy contained therein is invalid. The National Commission is bound to accept the policy contained in the circulars as valid and cannot question the policy decision of the Reserve Bank not to impose a ceiling on the rate of interest to be charged by the Banks on the credit card transactions.9 CONSIDERATION OF SUBMISSIONS 39. Upon hearing the counsels for the parties & the intervenor and considering their detailed written submissions, the questions for determination before this Hon’ble Court are as under: (i) Whether the Respondent organization has the locus to approach the National Commission? (ii) Whether the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, has the jurisdiction to interfere with banking operations, which is the exclusive statutory domain of the Reserve Bank of India? (iii) Whether the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission had the jurisdiction to fix a maximum ceiling rate of interest to be 9 L.Chandra Kumar vs Union of India & Ors. (1997) 3 SCC 261 1504 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports charged by banks from their credit card holders for their failure to make full payment on the due date, at the behest of the Reserve Bank of India & unilaterally direct banks/non-banking financial institutions to charge rates of interest not beyond the 30% p.a., in absence of an instruction/directive of the Reserve Bank of India?