(5) All appointed to posts in the service shall be made- (a) by direct recruitment; or (b) By promotion ; or (c) by transfer. 6B. Appointed on the posts specified in clause (v) of Sub- section (2) Shall be made by additional Chief Executive Office-cum-District Education officer (Elementary- Education) of the District concerned in accordance with the rules made in this behalf by the State Government, from out of persons selected for the posts by the recruitment committee constituted by the Government in accordance with the rules made by the State Government in this Behalf: 9. Thereafter, in accordance with Section 102 of the Rajasthan Panchayati Raj Act, 1994 were framed the Rajasthan Panchayati Raj Prabodhak Service Rules, 2008. Certain relevant clauses of the Rules are extracted hereunder: “2. Definitions. In these rules unless the context otherwise requires,- (c) “Direct recruitment” means recruitment made in accordance with Part IV of these rules; (k) “Teaching Experience” for the purpose of direct recruitment includes the experience gained in supervisory capacity in any recognized educational institution or project; 6. Methods of Recruitment. Recruitment to the service after the commencement of the rules shall be made by the following methods:- (a) by direct recruitment in accordance with Part IV of these rules, (b) by promotion in accordance with Part V of these rules. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 203 Mahesh Chand Bareth & Anr. v. State of Rajasthan & Ors. 13 Age. A candidate for direct recruitment to a post enumerated in the Schedule must have attained the age of 23 years and must not have attained the age of 35 years on the first day of January following the last date fixed for receipt of applications: Provided (v) that the person serving under the educational project in the State viz Rajiv Gandhi Pathshala/Shiksha Karmi Board/Lok Jumbish Pariyojana/Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan/ District Primary Education Programme shall be deemed to be within age limit, had they been within the age limit when they were initially engaged even though they may have crossed the age limit at the time of direct recruitment. 14. Academic and Professional Qualifications. A candidate for direct recruitment to the posts specified in the Schedule shall, in addition to such experience as is required shall possess – (i) the qualification and experience given in column 6 of the schedule, and (ii) working knowledge of Hindi written in Devnagri Scripts and knowledge of Rajasthani culture. 25. Recommendation of the Committee:- The committee shall prepare a list of the candidates whom, they consider suitable for appointment to the posts concerned, arranged in the of merit and forward the same to the Appointing Authority: Provided that the Committee may, to the extent of 50% of the advertised vacancies, keep names of suitable candidates on the reserve list. The names of such candidates may, on requisition, be recommended in the of merit to the Appointing Authority within 6 months from the date on which the Committee forwards the original list to the Appointing Authority. 204 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Schedule S. Name of Method of Post from Qualifications Qualification Remarks No.