They also submit that the appellant cannot be given the benefit of 6 marks for additional qualifications as he did not possess the PG Degree in the “relevant subject”. 11. Analysis: The standard argument made consistently and successfully before the Single Judge and Division Bench must fail before us. Clauses 14 and 19 of the vacancy circular do nothing more than reserving flexibility in the selection process. They cannot be read to invest the Institute with unbridled discretion to pick and choose candidates by supplying new criteria to the prescribed qualification. This is a classic case of arbitrary action. The submission based on Clauses 14 and 19 must fail here and now. 12. The other submission of the respondent about restricting a “PG Degree” to a “PG Degree in Relevant Subject” must also be rejected. The illegality in adopting and applying such an interpretation is evident from a simple reading of the notification dated 27.04.2016 providing for additional qualifications. The additional qualifications provided under clauses ‘a’ to ‘d’ are under two categories. While ‘a’, ‘b’, and ‘d’ relating to PG Diploma, PG Degree, and PhD are general qualifications providing for 5, 6, and 10 marks respectively, the category under ‘c’ relates to Professional Qualification in the field. This is where specialization is prescribed. If we add the requirement of specialization to category ‘b’, i.e., PG Degree, then that category becomes redundant. The whole purpose of providing PG Degree independently and allocating a lesser quantum of 6 marks will be completely lost if such an interpretation is adopted. This can never be the purpose of prescribing distinct categories. No further analysis is necessary. We reject this submission also. 13. The Single Judge as well as the Division Bench did not really analyse the prescription of additional qualifications and the distinct marks allocated to each of them, but confined their decision to restraint in judicial review and dismissed the appellant’s prayer. When a citizen alleges arbitrariness in executive action, the High Court must 416 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports examine the issue, of course, within the context of judicial restraint in academic matters. While respecting flexibility in executive functioning, courts must not let arbitrary action pass through. For the reasons stated above, we are of the opinion that the decisions of the Single Judge and the Division Bench are not sustainable, and we hereby set aside their s. 14. The story does not end here. 15. While reserving the , we directed the respondents to file an additional affidavit with respect to the availability of a vacant position. Following the direction, respondents 1 and 2 have filed an affidavit. Paragraph 3 and 4 of the affidavit read as under: “3. I state that the applications were invited to fill up the vacancy for Primary School Teacher at the Model Integrated Primary School [hereinafter the ‘School’] which was run by the Respondent No. 2 Institute. The Petitioner and the Respondent had applied in the SC category for which there was single post.