(4) No made in exercise of any power conferred by this section shall be called in question in any court. (5) Where an purports to have been made and signed by an authority in exercise of any power conferred by this section, a court shall, within the meaning of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (1 of 1872), presume that such was so made by that authority. Explanation.— In this section, the expression “article or class of articles” relatable to any scheduled industry includes any article or class of articles imported into India which is of the same nature or description as the 2066 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports article or class of articles manufactured or produced in the scheduled industry.” 7.4 The reason as to why Section 18G was inserted to the IDRA must be noted. In paragraph 3 of the Statement of Objects and Reasons, it has been stated as under: “At present, the power to control prices and distribution of various goods under this Act is confined to industrial undertakings registered or licensed under the Act. In all other cases, it is necessary to have recourse to powers derived from the Essential Supplies (Temporary Powers) Act, 1946 and the Supply and Prices of Goods Act, 1950. Both these enactments have a limited period of life. It is proposed to add a chapter taking power to control the distribution and price of goods produced in scheduled industries and of similar goods even, though they may be of imported origin.” The aforesaid reflects that the IDRA has brought under Central control the development and regulation of a number of important industries, the activities of which affect the country as a whole and the development of which must be governed by economic factors of all-India import. Similarly, in the Statement of Objects and Reasons of Amendment Act 72 of 1971, it has been stated as under: “The industries included in the First Schedule to the Industries (Development and Regulation) Act, 1951 are those the control of which by the Union has been considered to be expedient in the public interest. The proper development of these industries is vital to the economic development of the country. These industries not only substantially contribute to the Gross National Product of the country, but also afford gainful employment to millions of people.” 7.5 Section 29E was inserted with effect from 14.05.2016 by Act 27 of 2016. As already noted, Item 26 of the First Schedule deals with “Fermentation Industries” and after amendment by Act 27 of 2016 with retrospective effect from 08.05.1952, “Fermentation Industries” have been clarified as “other than [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2067 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons potable alcohol”. Therefore, alcohol and other products of “Fermentation Industries” would refer to products which are “other than potable alcohol”. Article 47: Directive Principle of State Policy: 8. Since we are trying to ascertain the true meaning of “intoxicating liquors” in Entry 8 – List II, Article 47 of the Constitution of India, which is a Directive Principle of the State Policy, is relevant as the said Article deals, inter alia, with intoxicating drinks.