It is submitted that Clause 1.0 of the L.O.I. specifically states that various conditions, i.e., contractual, financial and technical mentioned in the documents contained therein shall be binding on the respondent for execution of works and they shall form part of the agreement. Clause 10.0 also states that the L.O.I. shall also form a part of the agreement. [2024] 3 S.C.R. 817 NBCC (India) Limited v. Zillion Infraprojects Pvt. Ltd. It is submitted that the intention is amply clear from Clause 7.0 of the L.O.I., which states that the redressal of dispute between the NBCC and the respondent shall only be through civil courts having jurisdiction of Delhi alone. It further states that the laws applicable to the contract between the parties shall be the laws enforceable in India. It is submitted that merely on account of reference in the L.O.I. to the terms and conditions as contained in the tender issued by the DVC to the NBCC, Clause 3.34 of the Additional Terms & Conditions of Contract would not apply in view of specific modification as stated in Clause 2.0 of the L.O.I. 6. Learned Senior Counsel submits that a mere reference to the terms and conditions without there being an incorporation in the L.O.I. would not make the lis between the parties amenable to the arbitration proceedings. Relying on the of this Court in the case of M.R. Engineers and Contractors Private Limited vs. Som Datt Builders Limited1, he submits that unless the L.O.I. specifically provides for incorporation of the arbitration clause, a reference to the arbitration proceedings would not be permitted in view of the provisions of sub-section (5) of Section 7 of the Arbitration Act. 7. Shri Sumit Kumar, learned counsel appearing for the respondent, on the contrary, submits that there is a specific reference in Clause 2.0 of the L.O.I. to the terms and conditions in the tender issued by the DVC to the NBCC. He submits that the only modification is that under Clause 3.34 of the Additional Terms & Conditions of Contract, the jurisdiction is vested with the Court in the City of Kolkata only, whereas in the L.O.I. the jurisdiction would be vested in the civil courts having jurisdiction of Delhi alone. It is submitted that the learned single judge of the Delhi High Court has rightly considered this aspect and as such, no interference would be warranted in the impugned . 8. Sub-section (5) of Section 7 of the Arbitration Act reads thus: “7. Arbitration Agreement.-1)………………. xxx xxx xxx 1 (2009) 7 SCC 696 818 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (5) The reference in a contract to a document containing an arbitration clause constitutes an arbitration agreement if the contract is in writing and the reference is such as to make that arbitration clause part of the contract.” 9. The issue is no more res integra. The provisions of sub-section (5) of Section 7 of the Arbitration Act have been considered by this Court in the case of M.R.