What has been given to the appellants under law cannot be taken away on the basis of an unclear deposition. In short, there cannot be an admission against law. Whether a particular statement amounts to an “admission” will depend on the fact of each case. In the case at hand, we are of the opinion that it is not an admission as visualised under XII Rule 6. 7. The appellants filed an appeal against this before the Division Bench of the High Court which was dismissed, vide dated 08.12.2022, which is presently under challenge before us. The Division Bench held that under section 2(g), the legislature intended that where the original tenant has died before the coming into force of the 1997 Act, his legal heirs would be protected for five years from the date of coming into force of the act. Otherwise, the latter phrase in section 2(g) “from the date of coming into force of this Act, whichever is later” would stand frustrated. This is what the High Court held: “What can be logically deduced therefrom that the heritability of the estate of the tenant was restricted for 654 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports a period of five years from the date of the death in case the tenant died after promulgation of the said Act to the other heirs excluding the spouse who have been kept in the exception (provided the conditions imposed therein are duly fulfilled and/or satisfied). A striking feature may further be noticed from the definition of tenant under 1997 Act in relation to the fixation of the time limit fixed therein which, if lost sight of, shall frustrate the legislative intent. The son, daughter and parents shall not be entitled to take protection under the aforesaid definition, if the tenant dies prior to the promulgation of the said Act and the aforesaid period would be reckoned from the date of coming into force of the said Act. Otherwise, the expression “from the date of coming into force of this Act, whichever is later” shall be redundant and meaningless. What can be legally deduced therefrom is that even if the tenant dies when the Act of 1956 was in vogue, yet the heirs other than the spouse would not get any protection in relation to a time limit under the definition of the tenant in the Act of 1997 and, therefore, the concept of “devolution” of the tenancy right under the 1956 Act cannot be said to be inflexible. The legislatures can restrict the heritability of the tenanted estate which does not offend the constitutional ethos nor can be impinge (sic: impinged) on the ground of restricting the succession in relation to our tenanted property. What can be culled out from the aforesaid discussion that the heirs other than the spouse, even if they satisfy the other conditions laid down in the definition provision, loses their right as a tenant nor protected under the provisions thereof after the expiration of five years from the date of death and in the event the death occurs after coming into force of the said Act or upon expiration of five years from the date of coming into force of the Act or 1997, whichever is later.” The entire case here rests upon the interpretation of “tenant” as defined in the new Act.