In 2012, the UN Commission on Population and Development reaffirmed these principles - calling states to provide evidence-based comprehensive education on human sexuality, sexual and reproductive health, human rights, and gender equality, enabling youth to engage with their sexuality positively and responsibly.234 159. In a landmark ruling, the European Court of Human Rights235 upheld young people’s right to sexuality education in schools. This case 230 “ICPD” 231 UN Population Fund (1995). Report of the International Conference on Population and Development, Cairo, 5-13 September 1994, A/CONF.171/13/Rev.1; UN coordinated an International Conference on Population and Development (ICPD) in Cairo, Egypt. Its resulting Programme of Action is the steering document for the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA). 232 Ibid. 233 International Commission of Jurists (2007). Yogyakarta Principles: Principles on the Application of International Human Rights Law in Relation to Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity. International Commission of Jurists. 234 See UNESCO (2018). International technical guidance on sexuality education: an evidence-informed approach. 235 A.R. and L.R. v. Switzerland, application no. 22338/15 (EtCHR). [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1597 Society for Enlightenment and Voluntary Action & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. involved a refusal by a primary school to grant a request from a parent seeking to exempt her daughter, then seven years old, from sex education lessons. The EtCHR opined that this refusal violated the right to freedom of thought, conscience, and religion. It also violates Article 2 (the right to life) and Article 8 (the right to respect for private and family life). The Court recognized that one of the aims of sex education is to prevent sexual violence and exploitation, threats that compromise children’s physical and mental health.236 It also stressed that state education should prepare children for social realities, justifying the inclusion of sexual education for even very young children in primary education. iii. Right to development of children 160. A lack of education denies girls their right to personal development as guaranteed in the CRC which is crucial for them to prepare for adulthood and effectively contribute to the future well-being of their families and society. The CRC highlights the significance of personal development, emphasizing that every child has the inherent right to develop their personality, talents, and mental and physical abilities to their fullest potential.237 The right to personal development is intricately linked to various aspects of a child’s well-being, particularly health. The CRC interrelates with five other articles,238 which collectively address eight specific dimensions of child development that require protection: physical development, mental development, moral development, social development, cultural development, spiritual development, development of the personality, and development of talent. 161. Under Article 29(1)(a) of the CRC, States Parties agree that the education of the child shall be directed toward the development of the child’s personality, talents and mental and physical abilities to their fullest potential.239 Article 29(1)(d) further emphasizes that education should be oriented toward the preparation of the child for a responsible life in a free society, in the spirit of understanding, 236 Ibid. 237 See OHCHR (2013).