However, no specific issues were spelt out in the dated 12.02.2019. 34. In view of the above, Dr. Dhawan submitted that the issues are required to be framed and then decided by this Bench. According to him, following issues arise in the present matter: a. Was Azeez Basha [supra] correctly decided, and whether it suffers from internal contradiction and reasoning on facts and on law? 1930 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports b. Does Azeez Basha [supra] need to be reconsidered in light of earlier and subsequent decisions of this Court on Article 30(1)? c. What is the effect of Azeez Basha [supra] on the future decisions of the Hon’ble Allahabad High Court which applies Azeez Basha [supra] in toto and strikes down the statutory amendments to the Aligarh Muslim University Act 1920 (hereinafter referred to as 1920 Act) through the 1981 Amendment Act as a usurpation of judicial power? d. What is the effect of NCMEI Act read with the University Grants Commission Act, 1956 (‘UGC Act’)? Should Azeez Basha [supra] be reconsidered in the light of the NCMEI Act (as amended in 2010) and read with UGC Act as considered in Yashpal supra? e. Was Azeez Basha [supra] correct in accepting the antecedent historical data on AMU’s Muslim character, but denying its constitutional significance while deciding the issue of its minority status, which is at the variance with St. Stephen’s College v. University of Delhi, (1992) 1 SCC 558 [5-Judge Bench]; Rev. Father W Proost v. State of Bihar, (1969) 2 SCR 73 [5-Judge Bench]; and Right Rev. Bishop SK Patro v. State of Bihar, (1969) 1 SCC 863 [5-Judge Bench]? f. Is Azeez Basha [supra] contrary to the constitutional dispensation on rights of minorities under Articles 29 and 30, discerned before the Constituent Assembly Debates and approved in TMA Pai? 35. Further, Dr. Dhawan raised a preliminary objection regarding change of stand of the Union of India insofar as the validity of the 1981 Amending Act is concerned. Having once filed an appeal against the impugned of the Allahabad High Court, the decision to withdraw the same by Union of India and adopting a stand, which is contrary to the pleadings before the Hon’ble High Court is arbitrary, unreasonable and lacks bonafides. Dr. Dhawan submitted that the stance taken by Union of India presently is also contrary to its stance in the case of Azeez Basha [supra], which should not be permitted at this stage. 36. Dr. Dhawan interpreted Articles 26, 29 and 30 of the Constitution to argue that there are three questions, answers to which determine the [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1931 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. character of a particular institution i.e., whether a particular institution is a minority institution or not: - a. What is the origin of the institute? b. Whether the minority community founded the institution or not? c. Whether the community in question is minority, either linguistic or religious, in the State or not? 37. Dr. Dhawan assailed the correctness of Azeez Basha [supra], by making the following submissions.