The 1981 amendment only attempted to change who “established” the University but made no change in the provision related to the administration of the University. It attempted to rewrite history by altering the recognition of the University’s establishment; c. AMU’s inclusion as an institution of national importance under Entry 63 of the Union list gives the Union government sole authority over it. Altering AMU’s status would require a constitutional amendment rather than a legislative amendment; and d. Over the past decades, there has been no demand for minority status for AMU, as evidenced by legislative actions in 1951 and 1965. The demand for minority rights now would conflict with existing reservation rights for Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, and Socially and Economically Backward Classes. 1700 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 29. Mr Guru Krishnakumar, learned senior counsel made the following submissions: a. The “new sovereign,” presumably referring to contemporary legislative and executive authorities, holds the discretion to determine the approach towards minority rights. This implies that decisions regarding minority rights are subject to the interpretation and of current governing bodies; b. H.V. Kamath in the Constituent Assembly advocated for parliamentary legislation on universities to demonstrate their impartial and non-communal nature. Similarly, Naziruddin Ahmed, a member of the Muslim League in the Constituent Assembly, asserted that universities were rightly under the Union’s jurisdiction; and c. A fact established by legislation cannot override a fact recognised by the Court.19 30. Mr Vijay Navare, learned senior counsel submitted that granting minority status to AMU would undermine Parliament’s authority and interfere with powers vested under Entry 63. 31. Ms. Archana Pathak Dave, learned senior counsel submitted that AMU was created ‘by the Statute’ (Act 21 of 1920) and not ‘under the Statute’. 32. Mr. Nachiketa Joshi, learned counsel submitted that the Rajya Sabha debates related to the amendments of 1981 reveal a misconception that this Court in Azeez Basha (supra) neglected AMU’s history before 1920. The amendment failed to alter the foundational aspect of Azeez Basha (supra), which is centred on the Muslim community’s concessions to the terms of the British Government. D. Issues 33. The petitioner and the respondents disagree on whether this Bench must determine if AMU is a minority educational institution. In Anjuman-e-Rahmaniya (supra), the two-Judge Bench referred the question of the essential ingredients of a minority education institution. This was the core issue which was referred to the Constitution 19 Reliance was placed on Indira Sawhney (II) v. Union of India & Ors, AIR 2000 SC 498. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1701 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. Bench. The other two questions which were formulated, that is, the meaning of the phrase “establish” and the impact of registration under the Societies Registration Act 1860 after the establishment of the institution are in essence, subsets of the core issue. The question of the indicia for recognising an educational institution as a minority educational institution was reflected in question 3(a) framed in TMA Pai (supra). Thus, neither was Anjuman-e-Rahmaniya (supra) nor TMA Pai (supra) concerned with the factual situation in Azeez Basha: that is, whether AMU is a minority education institution.