28. On the aspect of Article 21 of the Constitution, it was held by this Court that although Article 21 protects the life and personal liberty of every person in this country, which also includes the right to live with dignity, yet it cannot be said that Section 438 of the CrPC is an integral part of Article 21. The Court took notice of the fact that there was no provision similar to Section 438 in the Criminal Procedure Code, 1898 and ultimately concluded that anticipatory bail is not granted as a matter of right. It is essentially a statutory right conferred long after the coming into force of the Constitution. Therefore, it was observed, that the non-application of Section 438 to a certain distinct category of offences cannot be considered as violative of Article 21 of the Constitution. Relevant observations made by the Court are reproduced hereinbelow: “6. It is undoubtedly true that Section 438 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which is available to an accused in respect of offences under the Penal Code, is not available in respect of offences under the said Act. But can this be considered as violative of Article 14? The offences enumerated under the said Act fall into a separate and special class. Article 17 of the Constitution expressly deals with abolition of ‘untouchability’ and forbids its practice in any form. It also provides that enforcement of any disability arising out of ‘untouchability’ shall be an offence punishable in accordance with law. The offences, therefore, which are enumerated under Section 3(1) arise out of the practice of ‘untouchability’. It is in this context that certain special provisions have been made in the said Act, including the impugned provision under Section 18 which is before us. The exclusion of Section 438 of the Code of Criminal Procedure in connection with offences under the said Act has to be viewed in the context of the prevailing social conditions which give rise to such offences, and the apprehension that perpetrators of such atrocities are likely to threaten and intimidate their victims and prevent or obstruct them in the prosecution of these offenders, if the offenders are allowed to avail of anticipatory bail. In 1118 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports this connection we may refer to the Statement of Objects and Reasons accompanying the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Bill, 1989, when it was introduced in Parliament. [….] The above statement graphically describes the social conditions which motivated the said legislation. It is pointed out in the above Statement of Objects and Reasons that when members of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes assert their rights and demand statutory protection, vested interests try to cow them down and terrorise them. In these circumstances, if anticipatory bail is not made available to persons who commit such offences, such a denial cannot be considered as unreasonable or violative of Article 14, as these offences form a distinct class by themselves and cannot be compared with other offences.