Dishonest intention exists when the person so taking the property intends to cause wrongful gain to himself or wrongful loss to the other. This intention is known as animus furandi and without it the offence of theft is not complete. Fish in their free state are regarded as ferae naturae but they are said to be in the possession of a person who has possession of any expanse of water such as a tank, where they live but from where they cannot escape. Fishes are also regarded as being in the possession of a person who owns an exclusive right to catch them in a particular spot known as a fishery but only within that spot. There can thus be theft of fish from a tank which belongs to another and is in his possession, if the offender catches them without the consent of the owner and without any bona fide claim of right. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 279 Just Rights for Children Alliance & Anr. v. S. Harish & Ors. 7. Now the ordinary rule that mens rea may exist even with an honest ignorance of law is sometimes not sufficient for theft. A claim of right in good faith, if reasonable saves the act of taking from being theft and where such a plea is raised by the accused it is mainly a question of fact whether such belief exists or not. This court in Criminal Appeal No. 31 of 1961 (Suvvari Sanyasi Apparao v. Boddepalli Lakhminarayana decided on October 5, 1961 observed as follows: “It is settled law that where a bona fide claim of right exists, it can be a good defence to a prosecution for theft. An act does not amount to theft, unless there be not only no legal right but no appearance or colour of a legal right.” 8. By the expression “colour of a legal right” is meant not a false pretence but a fair pretence, not a complete absence of claim put a bona-fide claim, however weak. This Court observed in the same case that the law was stated in 2 East P.C. 659 to be: “If there be in the prisoner any fair pretence of property or right, or if it be brought into doubt at all, the court will direct an acquittal.” and reffered to 1 Hale P.C. 509 that “the best evidence is that the goods were taken quite openly”. The law stated by East and Hale has always been the law on the subject of theft in India and numerous cases decided by Indian Courts are to be found in which these principles have been applied. Niyogi, J. in his also referred to some of the decisions of the Calcutta High Court and we find ourselves in particular agreement with the following statement of the law in Hamid Ali Bepari v. Emperor : “It is not theft if a person, acting under a mistaken notion of law and; believing that certain property is his and that he has the right to take the same … removes such property from the possession of another.” (Emphasis supplied) 280 [2024] 10 S.C.R.