3 at the time of the commission of the alleged offence; and accordingly trespassed into the home of the Complainant. Additionally, the High Court observed that the standard to be adopted by the Trial Court at the stage of invoking its’ powers under Section 319 CrPC would be a prima facie satisfaction that that the accused person has committed the alleged offence. Accordingly, in view of the aforesaid, the High Court (i) allowed the criminal revision petition; 690 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (ii) set aside the Underlying ; and (ii) directed the Trial Court to implead the Appellants as Accused No. 2 and Accused No. 3 respectively, in the CC No. 7243 of 2018 before the Trial Court (the “Underlying Proceedings”). 4. Mr. S. Nagamuthu, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the Appellants has submitted before us that the High Court has exercised jurisdiction under Section 319 of the CrPC and erroneously reversed the Trial Court without appreciating (i) that the allegation qua the Appellants are vague and omnibus; (ii) that there is no evidence on record to suggest the involvement of the Appellants in the alleged offence; and (iii) the dicta laid down by this Court in Hardeep Singh (Supra). 5. On the other hand, the learned counsel(s) appearing on behalf of the Respondent(s) have vehemently opposed the aforesaid contention; and submitted that the High Court has rightly appreciated the allegations disclosed in the underlying complaint, the statement(s) recorded under Section 161 CrPC and the examination-in-chief of the PWs to conclude that the evidence on record underscored the involvement of the Petitioners in the commission of a crime and accordingly, the Impugned could not be faulted on account of any perversity in view of our decision in Jitendra Nath Mishra v. State of Uttar Pradesh, (2023) 7 SCC 344. 6. We have heard the learned counsel(s) appearing on behalf of the parties and perused the materials on record. 7. The principles of law governing the exercise of jurisdiction under Section 319 of the CrPC are well established. Notably, a constitution bench of this Court in Hardeep Singh (Supra) observed as under: “105. Power Under Section 319 Code of Criminal Procedure is a discretionary and an extraordinary power. It is to be exercised sparingly and only in those cases where the circumstances of the case so warrant. It is not to be exercised because the magistrate or the sessions judge is of the opinion that some other person may also be guilty of committing that offence. Only where strong and cogent evidence occurs against a person from the evidence laid before the court that such power should be exercised and [2024] 2 S.C.R. 691 N. Manogar & Anr. v. The Inspector of Police & Ors. not in a casual and cavalier manner. 106. Thus we hold that though only a prima facie case is to be established from the evidence laid before the court, not necessarily tested on the anvil of cross-examination, it requires much strong evidence that near probability of his complicity.