Instead, it was believed that future governments and electorates would identify the socio-economic structure which best suits the needs of society. It was to be left to future generations to persuade the electorate and determine the “best way” of achieving the ideal of an ‘economic democracy;’ and d. When members such as KT Shah and Damodar Seth sought greater inclusion of what they termed as ‘socialistic’ thought, Dr Ambedkar’s response was always that such principles can be accommodated within the ambit of the widely worded provisions, as they exist. Not only were such proposals to specify an economic structure opposed by Dr Ambedkar but in all the examples discussed above, they were also negatived by a majority when the draft amendments were put to a vote. 171. We now turn to an analysis of the amendment proposed by Professor KT Shah to Article 31(ii), which corresponds with the present-day Article 39(b). As discussed above, Professor Shah sought to substitute the article with the following provision: “(ii) that the ownership, control and management of the natural resources of the country in the shape of mines and mineral wealth, forests, rivers and flowing waters as well as in the shape of the seas along the coast of the country shall be vested in and belong to the country collectively and shall be exploited and developed on behalf of the community by the State as represented by the Central or Provincial Governments or local governing authority or statutory corporation as may be provided for in each case by Act of Parliament’;” 152 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 172. The proposed amendment to Article 31(ii) sought to make the language of the provision more specific and lay down a ‘socialist’ economic . It specified a list of natural resources to be covered by the provision, and also expressly stated that these resources would be vested in the state which would exploit them on behalf of the community. The opposition to the existing provision was that it allowed future Parliaments to evolve an economic plan of their choice instead of laying down that key industries would be owned by the state. 173. Once again, following his view in earlier debates, Dr Ambedkar opposed the amendment, which sought to lay down the specificities of a ‘socialist’ economic . His exact response, however, was significant – he stated that the proposed amendment was already covered by the “extensive language” of the existing provision. This response has been central to the submissions of the counsel for the appellants and respondents before us. 174. Ms. Uttara Babbar, senior counsel, submitted that the keyword in the amendment was ‘vested’. She argued that the proposed amendment differs from the current provision, as it sought to include the vesting of certain natural resources, which may otherwise be privately owned, in the state. According to her, the rejection of the amendment by the Constituent Assembly indicates that the existing provision does not include the ‘vesting’ of resources in the state, but only pertains to the distribution of resources already owned and controlled by the state.