31. Owing to the oscillative stand of the defendants/the appellants over the sale deed dated 15.03.1963 and 04.06.1968, and on account of the disentitlement of the defendants to resurrect the contention that the suit land is a Joint Hindu family property coupled with the indisputable position obtained from the materials on record that admittedly suit land was purchased in the name of Sh. Sita Ram, we find absolutely no reason to ascribe voidness to the said sale deed dated 15.03.1963 as also Ext.P1/C sale deed dated 04.06.1968 or to hold that they did not have the effect of transfer of ownership. Though, the defendants did not raise a contention specifically on the ground that Sh. Sita Ram was a benami, the said question whether such a contention is available and can be sustained by the defendants to invalidate the said sale deeds have been gone into by the High Court taking note of the contention that though it was purchased in his name in the year 1963 he did not have right to transfer the suit land to the plaintiff as per Ext.P1/C-sale deed. In that regard, Section 4 of the Benami Transaction Act, 1988 was referred to by the High Court. After referring to Sub-sections 4 (1) and (2) thereof, the High Court held that no suit, claim or action to enforce a right in respect of any property held benami shall lie against the person in whose name the property is held or against any other person shall lie by or on behalf of a person claiming to be the real owner of such property because of the prohibitory nature therefor. Relying on the decision of this Court in R. Rajagopal Reddy (D) by LRs. v. Padmini Chandrasekharan (D) by LRs.9 and in view of the prohibition contained in the aforesaid provisions, the High Court virtually held such a contention that Sh. Sita Ram was not the owner of the property with right to alienate, (of course, on attaining majority) as also the challenge against the right acquired by the plaintiffs pursuant to the purchase of the suit land under Ext.P1/C 9 [1995] 1 SCR 715 : AIR 1996 SC 238 728 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports as meritless. Suffice it to say that in view of the reasons assigned by the High Court and given by us supra, there can be no doubt with respect to the transfer of the ownership of the suit land from Sh. Sita Ram to the plaintiff on the strength of Ext.P1/C sale deed. 32. The question that survives further consideration is whether the High Court was right in declining to accept the appellants’ contention that they perfected the title over the suit land by adverse possession. While being cross examined as DW-1, the original defendant No.1 would depose thus: - “An application was given by me and my brother in the Court of Tehsildar for mutation of our names on the disputed lands on the ground of lease and our possession of the lands.