19. Although the aforesaid report has not been made publicly available, yet the Ministry of Mines pursuant to the aforesaid report has issued a Notice dated 25.05.2022 for public consultation on amending the MMDR Act to bring reforms in the mining sector by inter-alia proposing amendment to the relevant rules for removing the cascading impact of royalty on royalty in the calculation of the ‘average sale price’. The relevant portion of the aforesaid notice reads as under: - “1. Calculation of ASP: Removing the cascading impact of royalty on royalty (iv) A committee was constituted by the Ministry of Mines under chairmanship by Shri Praveen Kumar, /AS (Retd.) with members from Ministry of Mines, NIT/ Aayog, Ministry of Steel, Indian Bureau of Mines (IBM) and Indian Statistical Institute to examine the incidence of double calculation of royalty. The committee concluded that since the sale value already includes royalty, DMF and NMET, the Jessee pays royalty on royalty, DMF and NMET. Due to this, there is an additional charge on the miners under the current methodology. (vi) Accordingly, it is proposed to (i) introduce new section in the MMDR Act regarding ASP; (ii) the provision shall specifically provide that ex-mine price for determination of ASP shall exclude GST, export duty, royalty. DMF & NMET & such other levies as may be prescribed; (iii) the change will be applicable for all the MLs, whether auctioned/ granted before or after the commencement of the proposed MMDR [2024] 12 S.C.R. 85 Kirloskar Ferrous Industries Limited & Anr v. Union of India & Ors. Amendment Act, for the minerals removed or consumed from the leased area after the commencement of the said Act; and (iv) adoption of new formula only for the future dues for existing MLs arising after the amendment” 20. The petitioners on the strength of the aforesaid notices issued by the Ministry of Mines have contended that although the respondents themselves have acknowledged the compounding of royalty in the computation of ‘average sale price’ yet no action or amendment has been made to the MMDR Act and the relevant rules thereunder in this regard. 21. In such circumstances referred to above, the petitioners have come up before this Court with the present writ petition. B. SUBMISSIONS OF THE PETITIONER 22. Dr. A.M. Singhvi, the learned senior counsel for the petitioners presented the statutory background to us in his submissions. He submitted that Section 9(2) of the MMDR Act contemplates payment of royalty at the rates specified in the Second Schedule to the MMDR Act and that Section 9(3) of the MMDR Act affords revision of the rates, but with a proviso restricting it to once every 3 years. 23. Dr. Singhvi apprised us of the fact that Section 13 of the MMDR Act empowers the Government of India to make rules, inter alia, with respect to the manner in which royalty shall be payable and consequent to such powers, the MCR, 2016 have been enacted. He submitted that Rule 39(3) of the MCR, 2016 provides that where royalty is to be paid on ad valorem basis, it shall be calculated as a specified percentage of the ASP as published by the Indian Bureau of Mines for the month of removal/consumption.