Post Recruitment which and and with promotion experience experience percentage is to be for Promotion for direct made Recruitment 2 Prabodhak 100% by - - Senior (4500- Direct Secondary 7000) Recruitment School Certificate or Intermediate or its equivalent, with Diploma or certificate in basic teachers training of a duration of not less than two years of Diploma or certificate in elementary teachers training of a duration of not less than two years. OR Bachelor of Elementary Education (B. El. Ed.) OR Graduation with Bachelor of Education (B. Ed.) or its equivalent AND Must have at least 5 years continuous teaching experience without any break in any recognized educational institution/ educational project. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 205 Mahesh Chand Bareth & Anr. v. State of Rajasthan & Ors. Guidelines of 27.05.2008 & advertisement of 31.05.2008: 10. Before the advertisement was issued on 31.05.2008, appropriate guidelines were formulated on 27.05.2008 for the purpose of selection of Prabodhak. The guidelines dealt with various aspects including award of bonus marks. Among the matters dealt with apart from educational qualifications and emoluments were also matters pertaining to disqualification if the applicant had more than two children on or after 01.06.2002; disqualification with regard to persons having more than one spouse and of persons who had obtained dowry during their weddings. The guidelines also dealt with the requirements with regard to community certificate; reservation of 30% for women of which 5% was to be for widows; requirements of age limit and relaxation. One of the clauses provided as under : “Selection Process: - Selection will be done entirely through interview for which a total of 100 marks have been allotted. The classification of these numbers is as follows: - General Knowledge – maximum 40 marks Personality – maximum 35 marks Experience - maximum 25 marks A maximum of 10 marks will be given according to 2 marks per year for a maximum of 5 years of teaching/supervision experience. If the experience is for the employee receiving honorarium under the projects run by the state government, then he will be given 5 marks for each academic session, maximum 25 marks.” 11. Thereafter, on 31.05.2008, advertisement for district-wise recruitment for the post of Prabodhak was issued and selection came to be made. The appellants, who are teachers in recognized educational institutions filed writ petitions aggrieved by the award of excess bonus marks for the candidate with project experience. In some writ petitions, the age relaxation granted to the project employed applicants were also challenged. 206 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Contentions of Appellants: 12. The appellants contend that Rule 13 (v) of the Rules providing age relaxation only to a few categories of teachers of certain government projects and denial of the same to other similarly situated teachers is discriminatory and violative of Article 14 of the Constitution of India. Insofar as the award of bonus marks is concerned, learned counsels relying on Rule 2(k) which deals with teaching experience, point out that granting additional marks to para teachers having teaching experience from government projects is ultra vires the Rules.