37. The subject land was acquired for the purpose of providing a safety zone to the mining area of the cement plant. The objective for acquiring the subject land mentioned in the Award of 2018 is reproduced below: “…3. Compulsory Acquisition by invoking the provisions of Section 17 (4) [2024] 9 S.C.R. 465 M/s Ultra-Tech Cement Ltd. v. Mast Ram & Ors. During the process of Notification issued under Section - 4 of the Land Acquisition Act, the matter was taken up for compulsory acquisition U/s 17(4) of Land Acquisition, Act, 1894 with the Govt. or Himachal Pradesh for the reasons that the land area under acquisition fell just below the mine leasehold area and was necessarily required as Mining Area Safety Zone. As the land area under acquisition cannot be allowed for any residential purpose in view of safety reasons and because the land proposed for acquisition is located just along the bank or Bhalag Nallah and most of the residents of village Bhalag had been constructing structures in large numbers on the right Bank of Nallah in Bhalag village, therefore provisions of compulsory acquisition needed to be invoked. Furthermore, to invoke the provisions of compulsory acquisition, it was submitted vide this office letter No. 2766 dated 06.01.2009 to Pr. Secretary (Industries) GoHP that the main dumping site of the project at Baga - Sehnali is situated above village Bhalag and during the unprecedented I I heavy rain season of 2007 – 08, muck had over flown into the Bhalag Nallah endangering the Safety Zone area under proposed acquisition…” [Emphasis Supplied] 38. Therefore, the acquisition of the subject land was done as a safety measure for the residents of the area and not to be used actively in the cement project. No other use except that the subject land may pose hazard to the residents was envisaged during the acquisition proceedings. JAL cannot pray for return of the land as that would result in endangering the lives and property of the original landowners. We find that the subject land has been in use all throughout the operation of the cement project by serving as a safety zone and the condition of being unutilized is not satisfied. 39. It is not in dispute that the Supplementary Award had to be passed as the compensation for standing crops, structures and other damages for the subject land which could not be fixed and evaluated under the Award No. 1 dated 08.06.2018. The same was also recorded in the Award of 2018. We find that the passing of Supplementary 466 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Award was not a fresh exercise but rather a continuation/extension of the Award of 2018. Therefore, when JAL has already paid the compensation amount as determined under the previous Award without any demur, it cannot be allowed to question its liability under the Supplementary Award and make a plea for return of the land at this stage on the ground that the purpose of the land is frustrated due to delay in acquisition proceedings.