The basic ingredients for constituting an offence under Section 3(1) (u) of the Act, 1989 are: a. Accused should not be a member of the Schedule Caste or Scheduled Tribe; 1142 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports b. Accused should by words, either written or spoken, or by signs or by visible representation or otherwise; c. Promote or attempt to promote feelings of enmity, hatred or ill-will against members of the Scheduled Caste or the Scheduled Tribes. 77. In our opinion, there is nothing to even prima facie indicate that the appellant by publishing the video on YouTube promoted or attempted to promote feelings of enmity, hatred or ill-will against the members of Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes. The video has nothing to do in general with the members of Scheduled Caste or the Scheduled Tribe. His target was just the complainant alone. The offence under Section 3(1)(u) will come into play only when any person is trying to promote ill feeling or enmity against the members of the scheduled castes or scheduled tribes as a group and not as individuals. vi. Whether mere knowledge of the caste identity of the complainant is sufficient to attract the offence under Section 3(1)(r) of the Act, 1989? 78. It was also sought to be argued that the appellant knew very well that the complainant belongs to a Scheduled Caste and despite such knowledge if he went on to make derogatory utterances in the video then the offence under Sections 3(1)(r) and 3(1)(u) respectively of the Act, 1989 could be said to have been prima facie made out. 79. We find no merit in the aforesaid submission. Wherever the legislature intended that mere knowledge of the fact that the victim is a member of Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe would be sufficient to constitute an offence under the Act, 1989, it has said so in so many words. We may reproduce some of the relevant provisions where knowledge that the complainant belongs to the Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes is sufficient in itself to constitute the offence: “3. Punishments for offences atrocities.-(1) xxx xxx xxx (w)(i) intentionally touches a woman belonging to a Scheduled Caste or a Scheduled Tribe, knowing that she belongs to a Scheduled Caste or a Scheduled Tribe, when such act of touching is of a sexual nature and is without the recipient’s consent; [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1143 Shajan Skaria v. The State of Kerala & Anr. (ii) uses words, acts or gestures of a sexual nature towards a woman belonging to a Scheduled Caste or a Scheduled Tribe, knowing that she belongs to a Scheduled Caste or a Scheduled Tribe.” xxx xxx xxx (2) Whoever, not being a member of a Scheduled Caste or a Scheduled Tribe,— xxx xxx xxx (v) commits any offence under the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860) punishable with imprisonment for a term of ten years or more against a person or property [knowing that such person is a member of a Scheduled Caste or a Scheduled Tribe or such property belongs to such member], shall be punishable with imprisonment for life and with fine; (va) commits any offence specified in the Schedule, against a person or property, knowing that such person is a member of a Scheduled Caste or a Scheduled Tribe or such property belongs to such member, shall be punishable with such punishment as specified under the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860) for such offences and shall also be liable to fine;]” (Emphasis supplied) 80.