Similarly, in Nasiruddin v. Sita Ram Agarwal [(2003) 2 SCC 577] (vide para 35) this Court observed: (SCC p. 588) ‘35. In a case where the statutory provision is plain and unambiguous, the court shall not interpret the same in a different manner, only because of harsh consequences arising therefrom.’ 35. Similarly, in E. Palanisamy v. Palanisamy [(2003) 1 SCC 123] (vide para 5) this Court observed: (SCC p. 127) ‘5. Equitable considerations have no place where the statute contained express provisions.’ 36. In India House v. Kishan N. Lalwani [(2003) 9 SCC 393] (vide para 7) this Court held that: (SCC p. 398) ‘7. … The period of limitation statutorily prescribed has to be strictly adhered to and cannot be relaxed or departed from for equitable considerations.’…” (Emphasis supplied) 217. Unawareness or incognizance of law should not be conflated with ignorance of law. This Court in Motilal Padampat Sugar Mills (supra) duly acknowledged that a plea of unawareness of law is 286 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports fundamentally different in scope and application from the rule that ignorance of the law does not excuse anyone. The former as explained above, is a byproduct of the doctrine of equity whereas the latter is a cardinal rule of criminal jurisprudence and no person can claim to be absolved of any criminal offence or liability on a plea of ignorance of law. Thus, where something is specifically made punishable under the law, then in such cases the law would prevail over equity, and no plea of ignorance of law can be taken as a defence to absolve or dilute any liability arising out of such punishable offences. Thus, even if all four preconditions are satisfied, the courts are not bound to accept such a plea, if it is in negation or derogation of any law or the idea of justice. 218. Equity modifies the applicable law or ensures its suitability to address the particular circumstances before a court to produce justice. The modification of general rules to the circumstances of the case is guided by equity, not in derogation or negation of positive law, but in addition to it. It supplements positive law but does not supplant it. In a second sense however, where positive law is silent as to the applicable legal principles, equity assumes a primary role as the source of law itself. Equity steps in to fill the gaps that exist in positive law. Thus, where no positive law is discernible, courts turn to equity as a source of the applicable law. However, where positive law exists, equity will always yield to it. [See M. Siddiq v. Mahant Suresh Das, reported in 2020 1 SCC 1] 219. It was further contended by the respondent no. 1 that although the said child pornographic material was found stored in his mobile phone, yet he had no knowledge of the same. He would submit that, the aforesaid videos that were found stored in his mobile as revealed by the FSL Report had been automatically downloaded into his mobile phone without his knowledge or volition.