But that would be the language of every provision prescribing a period of limitation. It is because a bar against entertainment of an application beyond the period of limitation is created by a special or local law that it becomes necessary to invoke the aid of Section 5 in that the application may be entertained despite such bar. Mere provision of a period of limitation in howsoever peremptory or imperative language is not sufficient to displace the applicability of Section 5. The conclusion is, therefore, irresistible that in a case where an application for special leave to appeal from an of acquittal is filed after the coming into force of the Limitation Act, 1963, Section 5 would be available to the applicant and if he can show that he had sufficient cause for not preferring the application within the time limit of sixty days prescribed in sub-section (4) of Section 417, the application would not be barred and despite the expiration of the time limit of sixty days, the High Court would have the power to entertain it. (emphasis supplied) 8. Mr. Vijay Kumar Aggarwal, learned counsel would then rely upon two cases, namely, Hukumdev Narain Yadav v. Lalit Narain Mishra [AIR 1974 SC 480] and subsequently Gopal Sardar v. Karuna Sardar [2004 (4) SCC 252]. 9. Both the above mentioned cases were dealing with special laws where a period of limitation was prescribed. Whereas Hukumdev Narain Yadav (supra) relates to Election matter where Section 81 of the Representation of People’s Act, 1951, prescribes a limitation of 45 days for filing an Election Petition, Gopal Sardar (supra) dealt with the right of pre-emption under Section 8 of the West Bengal Land 646 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Reforms Act, 1955 which again prescribed three months limitation for a bargadar and four months for a ‘raiyat’ to make an application for pre-emption to the concerned authorities. 10. There can be no quarrel with the argument that where a special law prescribes a period of limitation, Section 5 of the Limitation Act would have no application, subject only to the language used in the special statute. The language prescribing a period of limitation is an important factor as well. For example, in the Representation of Peoples Act, 1951 Section 81 prescribes limitation for presenting an election petition as under :- “81. Presentation of petitions.—(1) An election petition calling in question any election may be presented on one or more of the grounds specified in 207 [sub-section (1)] of Section 100 and Section 101 to the 208 [High Court] by any candidate at such election or any elector 209 [within forty-five days from, but not earlier than the date of election of the returned candidate or if there are more than one returned candidate at the election and dates of their election are different, the later of those two dates]. Explanation.—In this sub-section, “elector” means a person who was entitled to vote at the election to which the election petition relates, whether he has voted at such election or not.