It therefore recommended that the MoEFCC undertake a study in that regard and take “desired measures”. vi. The Committee underscored the need for India based studies to be undertaken to examine the effect of GM crops on “our environment on account of GM crops” keeping in view the “topography of our country and its diversity”. It was also noted that the impact of these crops on human as well as animal health has not been adequately studied. 29.2. In response to the above reports, the Union of India has submitted a compliance chart, stating that most of the lacunae that has been pointed out by the Committees, has been complied with and that the present regulatory system is in consonance with international standards and safeguards, to ensure that the precautionary approach is complied with. Another argument that has been put forth on behalf of the Union of India is that these reports are from the year 2012 and 2017, respectively and thereafter, in the past 7 years, the [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1923 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. scientific research has come a long way. 29.3. The evidentiary value of such reports is no longer res integra and was clarified by a Constitution Bench of this Court in Kalpana Mehta v. Union of India (5-Judge Bench).34 Dipak Misra, CJI (as he then was), observed: “159.1. Parliamentary Standing Committee report can be taken aid of for the purpose of interpretation of a statutory provision wherever it is so necessary and also it can be taken note of as existence of a historical fact. 159.2. Judicial notice can be taken of the Parliamentary Standing Committee report under Section 57(4) of the Evidence Act and it is admissible under Section 74 of the said Act. 159.3. In a litigation filed either under Article 32 or Article 136 of the Constitution of India, this Court can take on record the report of the Parliamentary Standing Committee. However, the report cannot be impinged or challenged in a court of law. 159.4. Where the fact is contentious, the petitioner can always collect the facts from many a source and produce such facts by way of affidavits, and the court can render its verdict by way of independent adjudication 159.5. The Parliamentary Standing Committee report being in the public domain can invite fair comments and criticism from the citizens as in such a situation, the citizens do not really comment upon any Member of Parliament to invite the hazard of violation of parliamentary privilege.” Dr D.Y. Chandrachud, J. (as he then was) in his detailed consideration of the issue at hand, observed: “275. Parliamentary Committees are an intrinsic part of the process by which the elected legislature 34 [2018] 4 SCR 1 : (2018) 7 SCC 1 1924 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports in a democracy exacts accountability on the part of the Government. Department related Parliamentary Standing Committees undertake the meticulous exercise of scrutinising the implementation of law, including welfare legislation and the performance of the departments of the State.