243 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. policy before a court of law. Discrimination and arbitrariness being antithetical to the essence of Article 14, the governmental action of distribution which is essentially an administrative action could be challenged before a Constitutional Court on the basis of relevant principles applicable in exercise of judicial review of such administrative action. I shall now discuss the opinions in the four s which are doubted in the reference . Ranganatha Reddy: 14. A seven-Judge Constitution Bench of this Court considered the correctness of the Karnataka Contract Carriages (Acquisition) Act, 1976 (Karnataka Act No.21 of 1976)(“Karnataka Act”)by which all private contract carriages in the private ownership of persons were sought to be nationalised by acquisition of the vehicles. The High Court had allowed all the writ petitions, struck down the Act as unconstitutional and declared it null and void. There was a direction to restore the vehicles with the relative permits and all other assets to the operators from whom they were taken over. Some consequential directives for determination of damages in some later proceedings were also issued. 14.1 The State of Karnataka had filed the appeals before this Court. One of the contentions raised on behalf of the owners of the contract carriages was that the acquisition was not for a public purpose and that the compensation provided was wholly illusory and arbitrary. The second contention was that Article 31C does not bar the challenge to the Act as being violative of Article 31(2) of the Constitution as there is no reasonable and substantial nexus between the purpose of the acquisition and securing the principles specified in clauses (b) and (c) of Article 39. Considering the issue of public purpose, the majority held that it is beyond the pale of any controversy now, particularly after the decision of this Court in Kesavananda Bharati that any law providing for acquisition of property must be for a public purpose andwhether the law of acquisition is for public purpose or not is a justiciable issue. The intention of the legislature has to be gathered mainly 244 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports from the Statement of Objects and Reasons of the Act and its Preamble and various provisions of the Act, its context and set up, and the purpose of acquisition has to be culled out to ascertain whether it is for a public purpose within the meaning of Article 31(2) of the Constitution. 14.2 Considering the provisions of the Karnataka Act, it was observed that in substance, the acquisition of the contract carriages was for nationalisation of the contract transport service in the State of Karnataka which was for a public purpose. On the question as to whether the compensation or amount paid for the property acquired was illusory and, therefore, in violation of fundamental right under Article 31(2), it was observed that on an interpretation of the provisions of the aforesaid Act, the amount so fixed was neither illusory nor arbitrary.