At one extreme is the view that attachment is not necessary at all before sale. At the other extreme stands the view that sale without attachment is void. A third view is, that attachment is an irregularity, but not in publishing or conducting the sale. According to the fourth view, a sale is not a nullity because of a defect in the attachment or want thereof, but if it causes “substantial injury”, it can be set aside under Rule 90. The last view seems to be the correct one. The object of attachment is to bring the property under the control of the court, and in the case of immovable property one of the requirements is that the of attachment should be publicly proclaimed. The main object of the proclamation is to give publicity to the fact that the sale of the proclaimed property is in contemplation. The publication of the attachment is thus a step leading up to the proclamation of the sale. The question whether it is necessary to insert a provision to clarify the position on the subject, has been considered. In 512 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the draft Report which had been circulated, an Explanation had been proposed to Rule 90 to the effect that absence of or defect in attachment shall be regarded as an irregularity under this rule. After some consideration, it has been decided that no such provision need be inserted.” In its Fifty-fourth Report, the Law Commission ed: “The Commission noted that the question whether the absence of, or irregularity in, attachment is, a defect in the “publication or conduct of the sale” within 21, Rule 90 had been discussed in several decisions. At one extreme was the view that attachment is not necessary at all before sale. At the other extreme stood the view that sale without attachment is void. A third view was that want of attachment is an “irregularity” but it is not an illegality in publishing or conducting the sale.” In the Notes on Clauses, Gazette of India dated 8.4.1974, Pt. II S.2, Extra, p. 325, the State of Objects and Reasons, it was stated: “Clause 75, sub-clause (xxxi).-There is a conflict of decisions as to whether an auction-purchaser can apply to set aside a sale under Rule 90. The words “or the purchaser” have been inserted in the rule to make it clear that the auction- purchaser can also apply to set aside the sale. The rule is also being amended to provide that a sale shall not be set aside on the ground of an irregularity or fraud unless the applicant has sustained a substantial injury by reason of such irregularity or fraud. It is further being provided that no application to set aside the sale shall be entertained on any ground which the applicant could have taken on or before the date on which the proclamation of sale was drawn up. In view of the divergence of opinion as to whether absence of, or irregularity in, attachment is a defect in the publication or the conduct of sale, an Explanation is being added to the effect that mere absence of or defect in the attachment of the property sold shall not, by itself, be a ground for setting the sale.” [2024] 7 S.C.R.