Measures such as annual value or market value provide a proximate basis to measure the income derived from land. If the State legislature utilizes the income derived from the land as a measure to quantify a tax on land, it does not trench upon the legislative domain of Union to tax income. The income merely serves as the measure to calculate the levy of taxes 373 [1961] 3 SCR 77 : 1960 SCC OnLine SC 7 [8] 374 [1969] 1 SCR 645 375 Also see New Manek Chowk Spg. & Wvg. Mills v. Ahmedabad Municipality, 1967 SCC OnLine SC 116 [13] 1726 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports on land.376 Having looked at the general principles relating to the measure of tax on land, we now look at specific decisions pertaining to taxation of mineral-bearing land. 295. In H R S Murthy (supra), the validity of a land cess under the Madras District Boards Act 1920 was in issue. The cess was levied on the annual rent value of all occupied lands and the tax was measured on the basis of “two annas in the rupee of the annual rent value of all such lands in the district.” In case of lands held directly from the Government, the annual rent value was defined as the assessment, lease amount, royalty or other sum payable to Government. Justice N Rajagopala Ayyangar, speaking for the Constitution Bench distinguished the decisions in Hingir-Rampur (supra) and M A Tulloch (supra) on the ground that the land cess: (i) was not concerned with the development of mines and minerals; (ii) was not collected for development of mining areas, but for the safety, health, convenience, and education of the inhabitants in the local area; and (iii) there was nothing in common between the impugned levy and the MMDR Act. Therefore, it was held that the operation of MMDR Act did not exclude the legislative competence of the State to levy the cess. 296. The petitioners argued in H R S Murthy (supra) that (i) the cess was payable only when the mining lessee paid royalty to the lessor; (ii) when no minerals were extracted, no royalty was payable; and (iii) the cess in effect was a tax on mineral rights. These contentions were rejected because: (i) the levy was in nature and substance a tax on land; (ii) the levy had a remote relationship to mining and to the mineral won from the mine under a contract by which royalty was payable on the quantity of mineral extracted, which did not make it a tax on either the extraction of mineral or on the mineral rights; and (iii) the rent value of a land held under lease is calculated on the basis of the lease amount. In case of a land held under a mining lease, the rent value will include the surface rent, dead rent as well as the royalty payable by the lessee or occupier for the use of the property. The decision in H R S Murthy (supra) supports the position that royalty can be used as a measure to tax mineral bearing land.