The High Court correctly placed reliance on the said of this Court to come to the conclusion that sale was conducted in breach of various provisions of the Revenue Code which are mandatory in nature. h. In fact, 30 days’ notice is not just mandatory for the purpose of giving an opportunity to the defaulter but also to invite maximum publicity and get maximum offer. Admittedly, no 30 days’ sale notice was given. Further, no wide publicity was made. i. There are various illegalities in confirming the sale as well. In a process of sale, first the sale is to be conducted, then the proceeds are required to be received. It is only after the receipt of the proceeds that the sale confirmation is required [2024] 7 S.C.R. 497 M/s Al-Can Export Pvt. Ltd. v. Prestige H.M. Polycontainers Ltd. & Ors. to be made by collector and thereafter sale certificate and possession is to be handed over. In the present case, the sale was conducted and concluded on the same day i.e., 03.12.2008. The sale certificate was issued on the same day without the confirmation from the collector and the possession was handed over on the very next day. j. From a bare perusal of Section 212 of the Revenue Code, it is evident that the purchaser can be put into possession only after confirmation of sale and the sale certificate being handed over to the purchaser. However, in the present case, the appellant was put in possession on 04.12.2008 and the sale of property was confirmed on 15.01.2009 by the Additional Collector, which is per se illegal in nature. The haste with which the proceedings were undertaken speaks for itself. k. Indisputably, objection was raised by the IFCI on 10.12.2008, which has been recorded by the Tahsildar in its letter dated 19.12.2008. l. On 07.01.2009, the Additional Collector, Head Office Jawar directed respondent no. 4 to submit a detailed report on whether it had fulfilled all the conditions as stipulated under Section 208 of the Revenue Code. However, vide its letter dated 12.01.2009 addressed to the Additional Collector, Head Office Jawar, respondent no. 4 informed that except for the WP in the High Court of Bombay, no other objection was received and thereby all requirements under Section 208 of the Revenue Code had been fulfilled, despite IFCI having raised its objections vide a letter dated 10.12.2008. 24. As regards the offer put forward by the appellant to deposit the requisite amount as per the market value of the property, Mr. Dave fairly submitted that sometime back, the appellant had offered to pay to the lenders but as the lenders found the offered amount to be very meagre the said proposal was not accepted. According to Mr. Dave, the market value of the suit property as on date could be around Rs. 6 to 7 crores. 25. In such circumstances referred to above, the learned Senior Counsel prayed that there being no merit in the appeals those may be dismissed with costs.