1567 M/s Bharti Airtel Ltd. v. The Commissioner of Central Excise, Pune is not permanent and what is attached can be easily detached from the foundation. So also the attachment of the plant to the foundation at which it rests does not fall in the third category, for an attachment to fall in that category it must be for permanent beneficial enjoyment of that to which the plant is attached. It is nobody’s case that the attachment of the plant to the foundation is meant for permanent beneficial enjoyment of either the foundation or the land in which the same is imbedded.” 11.7.2 This Court found that the machine was fixed and attached to the earth primarily for the purpose of providing wobble-free operation of the machine and held that there was no necessary intent to make the same permanent, thus, it does not amount to permanently fixing, embedding as attachment in the sense that would make the machine a part and parcel of the earth permanently, and held as follows: “43. It is noteworthy that in none of the cases relied upon by the Assessee referred to above was there any element of installation of the machine for a given period of time as is the position in the instant case. The machines in question were by their very nature intended to be fixed permanently to the structures which were embedded in the earth. The structures were also custom made for the fixing of such machines without which the same could not become functional. The machines thus becoming a part and parcel of the structures in which they were fitted were no longer movable goods. It was in those peculiar circumstances that the installation and erection of machines at site were held to be by this Court, to be immovable property that ceased to remain movable or marketable as they were at the time of their purchase. Once such a machine is fixed, embedded or assimilated in a permanent structure, the movable character of the machine 1568 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports becomes extinct. The same cannot thereafter be treated as movable so as to be dutiable under the Excise Act. But cases in which there is no assimilation of the machine with the structure permanently, would stand on a different footing. 44. In the instant case all that has been said by the assessee is that the machine is fixed by nuts and bolts to a foundation not because the intention was to permanently attach it to the earth but because a foundation was necessary to provide a wobble free operation to the machine. An attachment of this kind without the necessary intent of making the same permanent cannot, in our opinion, constitute permanent fixing embedding or attachment in the sense that would make the machine a part and parcel of the earth permanently. In that view of the matter we see no difficulty in holding that the plants in question were not immovable property so as to be immune from the levy of excise duty.” 11.7.3 While deciding the said issue, the Court referred to Triveni Engineering (supra), Sirpur Paper Mills Ltd. (supra), Quality Steel Tubes (P) Ltd. (supra), Mittal Engg.