389 Kizhakke Vattakandiyil Madhavan (Dead) Thr. Lrs. v. Thiyyurkunnath Meethal Janaki and Ors 10. The First Appellate Court did not attribute much importance to Exhibit A-20 which is the first of the two deeds, which was executed in the year 1910 while referring to Section 2 of the 1856 Act. The First Appellate Court has rightly come to a finding that Chiruthey had only a reversionary right over the suit property held by her first husband Madhavan and the plaintiff (Chandu) could not claim partition right on the strength of his being a uterine brother of Sankaran born to Chiruthey after she contracted her second marriage. She lost all her rights and interests in her deceased husband’s property on contracting second marriage with Neelakandan. There is an authority on this position of law. Velamuri Venkata Sivaprasad (Dead) by lrs. -vs- Kothuri Venkateswarlu (dead) by lrs. And Others [(2000) 2 SCC 139], in which it has been held:- “17. Section 2 of the Act of 1856, therefore, has taken away the right of the widow in the event of remarriage and the statute is very specific to the effect that the widow on remarriage would be deemed to be otherwise dead. The words “as if she had then died” (emphasis supplied) are rather significant. The legislature intended therefore that in the event of a remarriage, one loses the rights of even the limited interest in such property and after remarriage the next heirs of her deceased husband shall thereupon succeed to the same. It is thus a statutory recognition of a well-reasoned pre-existing Shastric law.” 11. The High Court in the second appeal formulated five questions of law as substantial ones, which are reproduced below:- “a) Was the court below justified in holding that Exts.A1 and A20 transactions are not genuine in the absence of any pleadings and evidence to arrive at such a finding? b) Was the interpretation placed by the court below on Exts.A1, A2, A20, and B1 correct and proper? c) Was the court below justified in relying on Exts.A1 and A20, which are not the original documents on the ground that Section 90 of the Indian Evidence Act would apply? d) Are the defendants entitled to question the validity of the transactions covered by Exts.A1 and A20, without the same being challenged in a properly constituted suit? 390 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports e) Was the court below justified in upholding the plea of ouster and adverse possession without any evidence on the side of the defendants to prove the same?” 12. Thus, when Chiruthey contracted her second marriage by operation of Section 2 of the 1856 Act, she had lost title of her share over the property of Madhavan. The High Court in the under appeal, however, primarily relied on the deeds executed on 14th July 1910 to sustain the claim of Chandu (since deceased), represented by his successors-in-interest. 13. The High Court proceeded on the basis of three documents, being Exhibit B-1 dated 7th May 1900 (mortgage deed), Exhibit A-20 dated 14th July 1910 which is the deed by which Chiruthey, Nangeli and Sankaran (through Chiruthey as he was minor at that point of time) created lease-right in favour of Cherupula Othayoth Cheriya Amma and her son Achuthan and on the same date Exhibit A-1, a Verumpattam Kuzhikkanam deed was also executed in favour of Chiruthey and Kuttiperavan.