Here we may notice one aspect. When the question arises as to whether an act or omission which constitutes an offence in law has been done in the discharge of official functions by a public servant and the matter is under a mist and it is not clear whether the act is traceable to the discharge of his [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1619 Gurmeet Kaur v. Devender Gupta & Another official functions, the Court may in a given case tarry and allow the proceedings to go on. Materials will be placed before the Court which will make the position clear and a delayed decision on the question may be justified. However, in a case where the act or the omission is indisputably traceable to the discharge of the official duty by the public servant, then for the Court to not accept the objection against cognizance being taken would clearly defeat the salutary purpose which underlies Section 197 of the Cr.P.C. It all depends on the facts and therefore, would have to be decided on a case-to-case basis.” It was concluded that learned Magistrate had erred in the facts of the said case in taking cognizance against the appellant therein contrary to the mandate of Section 197 of the CrPC and on that short ground alone, the appeal was allowed and the proceedings challenged in Section 482 were quashed. However, it was observed that the same would not stand in the way of the competent authority taking a decision in the matter and/or granting sanction for prosecuting the appellant therein in accordance with law. 24. Learned counsel for the first respondent tried to distinguish the said s by another set of s of this Court wherein the question, whether the officer or official in discharge of the official duties had exceeded limits of the official authority or capacity and therefore, there was no necessity for seeking a sanction for prosecution for the excess committed by an officer or official during the course of discharge of duty. In this regard, the following s have been relied upon by the learned counsel for the first respondent. a) In Bhagwan Prasad Srivastava vs. N.P. Mishra (1970) 2 SCC 56 (“Bhagwan Prasad Srivastava”), the facts were that the appellant therein had used defamatory language towards the complainant and the two accused persons had insulted and humiliated him in the eyes of the public. The question before this Court was whether complainant’s case was covered by Section 197 of the CrPC and previous sanction of the superior authority was necessary before the trial court could take cognizance of the complaint. It was held that the alleged offence consisted of the use of defamatory and abusive words and of getting the 1620 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports complainant forcibly turned out of the operation theatre by the cook. This was not a part of the official duty of the appellant therein as a Civil Surgeon or that it was directly connected with the performance of his official duty that without so acting he could not have properly discharged it.