Despite being indirectly elected, the Indian members of legislatures in India diluted the rigidity of colonial governance in India. In the absence of official support, privileges grew as a convention rather than law. The executive felt at liberty to violate the privileges of the Legislative Council and at any rate maintained that the Councils in India did not have any privilege akin to the UK House of Commons.33 54. The Government of India Act 1919 separated the legislatures from executive control. It introduced dyarchy, by prescribing two classes of administrators – the Executive councillors who were not accountable to the legislature and the ministers who would enjoy the confidence of the legislature. The Act extended more powers to the legislatures than previously enjoyed by them. However, members were restricted on the range of subjects which they could discuss, participate in and vote upon. Many privileges were not specified in the 1919 Act or rules of the procedure of the House. Nevertheless, the legislature claimed privileges as an inherent right of the legislature in the face of 31 Legislative Dispatch No. 14 of 9 August 1861, para 23 32 SK Nag, Evolution of Parliamentary Privileges in India till 1947, Sterling Publication, (1978), 102-103 33 SK Nag, Evolution of Parliamentary Privileges in India till 1947, Sterling Publication, (1978), 139-141, 158 [2024] 3 S.C.R. 505 Sita Soren v. Union of India an unwilling executive. The reason for the hesitation of the colonial Government of India was that a government run by a foreign power was not willing to extend parliamentary privileges to Indian legislators as a recognition of their possessing sovereign powers.34 The 1919 Act gave a qualified privilege of freedom of speech to the Houses of Legislature. Section 24(7) of the 1919 Act read thus: “(7) Subject to the rules and standing s affecting the Council, there shall be freedom of speech in the Governors’ Legislative Councils. No person shall be liable to any proceedings in any court by reason of his speech or vote in any such Council or by reason of anything contained in any official report of the proceedings of any such Council.” A corresponding provision was made in Section 11(7) of the Act with respect to provincial Legislative Councils. The freedom of speech in the Legislative Councils was subject to the Rules promulgated by the Governor-General. Therefore, while freedom of speech was extended to the Legislative Councils, they were ultimately made subject to the pleasure of the Governor-General and the Secretary of State for India for the legislature’s rule making power. The Act therefore did not make provisions to grant freedom of speech to Indian legislatures but rather aimed to place restrictions on the freedom of speech in the House. These restrictions materially impeded the ability of the legislatures to hold discussions on issues of public importance and introduce legislation. The Act however did grant the legislature power to define its own privilege. 55. A committee was set up in 1924 within a few years of the introduction of the Government of India Act 1919.