In his opinion, as long as these clauses stood, there was “no possibility of capitalism thriving in India”. He too was in vehement support of the goal to “nationalize industries and means of production”. 165. Dr BR Ambedkar opposed the amendments proposed by Mr KT Shah. In his opinion, the language of the draft provision used “extensive language”, which could potentially include the propositions moved by Professor KT Shah. He noted as follows: “With regard to his other amendments, viz., substitution of his own clauses for sub-clauses (ii) and (iii) of Article 31, all I want to say is this that I would have been quite prepared to consider the amendment of Professor Shah if he had shown that what he intended to do by the substitution of his own clauses was not possible to be done under the language as it stands. So far as I am able to see, I think the language that has been used in the Draft it a much more extensive language which also includes the particular propositions which have been moved by Professor Shah, and I therefore do not see the necessity for substituting these limited particular clauses for the clauses which have been drafted in general language deliberately for a set purpose. I therefore oppose his second and third amendments.” [2024] 11 S.C.R. 149 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. 166. Eventually, the motion to amend the provision was put to vote. The proposal to substitute the provision was negatived and it was thus introduced in its present form. c. Inferences from the discussions in the Constituent Assembly 167. Before laying down the principles which emerge from the above discussions, two caveats must be kept in mind. 168. Firstly, debates and discussions in the Constituent Assembly serve a limited purpose in constitutional interpretation. A review of the debates and discussions in the Constituent Assembly may aid in gleaning the principles and intent behind introducing various provisions of the Constitution. However, these principles do not control the meaning of the provision.130 This Court must interpret provisions of the Constitution in consonance with changing times, values and in the present case, even changing economic priorities. The Constitution is a living document. The ideas and the thinking of the framers of the Constitution cannot remain frozen for time immemorial. As a Constitution Bench of this Court noted in K.S. Puttaswamy v. Union of India,131 the Constitution governs the lives of over 125 crore citizens of this country and must be interpreted to respond to the changing needs of society at different points in time. This Court, speaking through one of us (Justice DY Chandrachud), observed: “130. Now, would this Court in interpreting the Constitution freeze the content of constitutional guarantees and provisions to what the Founding Fathers perceived? The Constitution was drafted and adopted in a historical context. The vision of the Founding Fathers was enriched by the histories of suffering of those who suffered oppression and a violation of dignity both here and elsewhere.