In Secretary of State, Represented by the Collector of South Arcot v. Mask & Company, reported in AIR 1940 Privy Council 105, their Lordships of the Privy Council with regard to the jurisdiction of the civil courts to entertain a suit observed as under: “It is settled law that the exclusion of the jurisdiction of the Civil Courts is not to be readily inferred, but that such exclusion must either be explicitly expressed or clearly implied. It is also well settled that even if jurisdiction is so excluded, the Civil Courts have jurisdiction to examine into cases where the provisions of the Act have not been complied with, or the statutory tribunal has not acted in conformity with the fundamental principles of judicial proceeding.” 32. The learned counsel appearing for the respondents invited our attention to three provisions of the CPC. First, Section 4, secondly, Section 54 and thirdly, XX Rule 18 of the CPC. 33. Section 4 of the CPC reads thus: “Section 4. Savings.- (1) In the absence of any specific provision to the Contrary, nothing in this Code shall be deemed to limit or otherwise 1930 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports affect any special or local law now in force or any special jurisdiction or power conferred, or any special form of procedure prescribed, by or under any other law for the time being in force. (2) In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the proposition contained in sub-section (1), nothing in this Code shall be deemed to limit or otherwise affect any remedy which a landholder or landlord may have under any law for the time being in force for the recovery of rent of agricultural land from the produce of such land.” 34. The plain reading of the provision referred to above would indicate that when anything in the CPC is in conflict with anything in the special or local law or with any special jurisdiction or power conferred or in the special form of procedure prescribed by or under any other law, the Code will not (in the absence of any specific provision to the contrary) prevail so as to override such inconsistent provisions. When there is no conflict between the special or local law and the Code, the Code will apply. 35. Section 54 of the CPC reads thus: “Section 54. Partition of estate or separation of share.- Where the decree is for the partition of an undivided estate assessed to the payment of revenue to the Government, or for the separate possession of a share of such an estate, the partition of the estate or the separation of the share shall be made by the Collector or any gazetted subordinate of the Collector deputed by him in this behalf, in accordance with the law (if any) for the time being in force relating to the partition, or the separate possession of shares, of such estates.” 36. The plain reading of the above referred provision would indicate that the same deals with a case in which a civil court can pass a decree but cannot itself execute it.