24279 of 2012 before the High Court of Kerala contending that the qualifications, as prescribed, would eliminate candidates who held higher qualifications as it restricted the zone of consideration to certificate holders only. By dated 01.08.2014, a learned Judge agreed with him and allowed the writ petition. The learned Judge opined that the notification should have been more transparent with regard to the qualifications, specifying whether equivalent/higher qualifications could also be accepted. The KPSC was accordingly directed to issue a revised notification, keeping this aspect in mind. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 329 Anoop M. and Others v. Gireeshkumar T.M. and Others Etc. 4. Aggrieved thereby, the KPSC filed Review Petition No. 884 of 2014 pointing out that there was no stipulation in the notification or in the Special Rules applicable to the post of LDC that a higher/equivalent qualification is also acceptable. The KPSC further stated that it had examined the issue in detail and decided that applications of persons with DCA qualification could not be accepted for the said post. It specifically averred that 590 applications of persons having DCA qualification had been received but were not treated as valid. Asserting that the , if complied with, would go against the Rules as DCA was not a notified qualification, the KPSC sought review of the direction to issue a revised notification. However, the Review Petition was dismissed on 24.02.2015. 5. The KPSC, thereupon, filed Writ Appeal No. 1501 of 2015. It asserted that, as an equivalent or higher qualification was not prescribed under the Rules, it was not accepting DCA qualification for the post of LDC. It further asserted that, at no point of time had it taken any decision to accept applications of candidates with DCA qualification as the qualification prescribed and notified for the post did not indicate that persons with DCA qualification would also be permitted to participate in the selection process. Accepting the stand of the KPSC, a Division Bench of the Kerala High Court allowed its writ appeal, vide dated 13.06.2022. The Division Bench took note of the KPSC’s contention that it had never notified any change in the qualifications and that it had already decided that DCA was not an equivalent qualification for the post in question as the equivalence mentioned in the notification was only with respect to the institution. The Division Bench, therefore, opined that, as no change had been made by the KPSC with regard to the qualification after issuance of the notification and, as a matter of fact, the KPSC had decided that DCA was not an equivalent qualification for the post in question, there was no warrant for allowing the writ petition and issuing a direction to revise the notification. The Division Bench noted that even if a person with higher qualification had applied, the same would have been rejected during the scrutiny before shortlisting of candidates for interviews. The Division Bench accordingly set aside the of the learned Judge and dismissed the writ petition. 6. Despite this in its favour, the KPSC surprisingly chose to shortlist candidates in a ranked list by including persons who held DCA qualification or other higher qualifications.