Thus, the position that emerges is that: (i) the regulations must be relevant to the purpose of granting recognition (in the case of a State- recognised institutions) and aid (in the case of Government aided institutions); and (ii) the effect of the regulation must not infringe the minority character of the institution. 65. From the discussion above, the following principles emerge : a. The purpose of Article 30(1) is to ensure that the State does not discriminate against religious and linguistic minorities which 57 (2005) 6 SCC 537 58 PA Inamdar (supra) [120]; TMA Pai (supra) [145] 59 Ibid [121] 60 ibid [122] 61 PA Inamdar [123]; TMA Pai [143] 1716 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports seek to establish and administer educational institutions (“the non-discrimination” purpose); and b. The purpose of Article 30(1) is also to guarantee a ‘special right’ to religious and linguistic minorities that have established educational institutions. This special right is the guarantee of limited State regulation in the administration of the institution. The State must grant the minority institution sufficient autonomy to enable it to protect the essentials of its minority character. The regulation of the State must be relevant to the purpose of granting recognition or aid, as the case may be. This special or additional protection is guaranteed to ensure the protection of the cultural fabric of religious and linguistic minorities. iii. Indicia for a Minority Educational Institution 66. To recall, the petitioners while challenging the 1951 and 1965 amendments to the AMU Act in Azeez Basha (supra) argued that the amendments were violative of the right to administration guaranteed by Article 30(1). The Union of India responded to the argument with the submission that the Muslim minority cannot claim the right to administration since it did not ‘establish’ the institution. Opposing this argument, the petitioners in Azeez Basha (supra) submitted that Article 30(1) guarantees the ‘right to administer’ an educational institution to minorities even if it was not established by them, if by “some process, it had been administering the same before the Constitution came into force.” The argument of the petitioners was rejected. This Court held that the words “establish” and “administer” must be read conjunctively, that is, the guarantee of the right to administration is contingent on the establishment of the institution by religious or linguistic minorities. In this context, the following observations were made: “It is to our mind quite clear that Art. 30(1) postulates that the religious community will have the right to establish and administer educational institutions of their choice meaning thereby that where a religious minority establishes an educational institution, it will have the right to administer that. An argument has been raised to the effect that even though the religious minority may not have established the educational institution, it will have the right to administer it, if [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1717 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. by some process it had been administering the same before the Constitution came into force. We are not pre-pared to accept this argument.