372 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports The Collectors of the districts shall render all necessary assistance in ensuring that the process of empanelment is duly streamlined. The process of empanelment shall ensure that the hospitals which are empaneled have a demonstrable track record and possess requisite medical facilities required for affording medical treatment of the requisite quality and care. The Committee may also ensure the empanelment of institutions for the purpose of carrying out medical investigations. The Committee will prescribe the benchmarks for empanelment. The Committee shall ensure that where medical care of the requisite standard for specified ailments is not available in the district concerned, treatment in respect of those ailments may be availed of elsewhere in an empaneled hospital. The Committee would be at liberty to take incidental measures covering situations where officers who have served in the State are residing outside the State. In such a case, the Committee may consider empanelment of hospitals outside the State so as to facilitate the availing of medical facilities. 86. Each of the CSCDJs constituted under the auspices of the High Court shall consider the following: (i) Formulating a Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) with specified timelines for claims and disbursal of allowances as approved by this Court, including the payment of arrears of salary and pension to judicial officers, pensioners and family pensioners; and (ii) The SOP shall, inter alia, cover the following: (a) The nodal agency for disbursement of allowances, arrears and other service and retiral benefits; (b) Laying down a simplified and effective procedure for reimbursement and disbursement of claims; (c) Providing contact details of the nodal agency at the district or State level; (d) Publication of the SOP on the website of the High Court, together with the details of the nodal officer; and (e) Maintenance of a database of retired Judges and family pensioners in the district judiciary with a process for periodical updating, at least on a quarterly basis. [2024] 1 S.C.R. 373 All India Judges Association v. Union of India & Ors 87. All States and Union Territories shall now act in terms of the above directions expeditiously. Disbursements on account of arrears of salary, pension and allowances due and payable to judicial officers, retired judicial officers and family pensioners shall be computed and paid on or before 29 February 2024. The CSCDJs institutionalized in terms of the directions issued earlier shall monitor compliance. Each Committee working under the auspices of the High Court shall submit its report to this Court on or before 7 April 2024 through the Registrar General of the High Court. 88. The CSCDJs shall also verify that the earlier s of this Court in regard to the payment of arrears of salary and pension have been duly implemented. Headnotes prepared by: Divya Pandey Result of the case: Directions issued.