145 to 153 of the 4th Edn., a perusal of which shows it has different connotations depending primarily on the subject-matter of the statute and the context of its use. A Bench of this Court in LDA v. M.K. Gupta [LDA v. M.K. Gupta, (1994) 1 SCC 243], gave a very wide meaning to this word finding place in Section 2(1)(o) of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 defining “service”. (See para 4)” (emphasis supplied) 132. Shri Chidambaram rightly argued that the word “any” will have to be construed in its context, taking into consideration the scheme and the purpose of the enactment. There can be no quarrel with regard to the said proposition. Right from the of the Constitution Bench of this Court in Chief Inspector of Mines v. Lala Karam Chand Thapar [Chief Inspector of Mines v. Lala Karam Chand Thapar, (1962) 1 SCR 9 : AIR 1961 SC 838], the position is clear. What is the meaning which the legislature intended to give to a particular statutory provision has to be decided by the Court on a consideration of the context in which the word(s) appear(s) and in particular, the scheme and object of the legislation.” 87. From the perusal of the various s, which have been referred to in detail by the Constitution Bench, it will be clear that the words “all” or “any” will have to be construed in their context taking into consideration the scheme and purpose of the enactment. What is the meaning which the legislature intended to give to a particular statutory provision has to be decided by the Court on a consideration of the context in which the word(s) appear(s) and in particular, the scheme and object of the legislation. We have no hesitation to hold that the word “all” used in clause 5.15 of the Bidding Guidelines, read with the legislative policy for which the Electricity Act was enacted and read with Section 86(1)(b) of the Electricity Act, will have to be construed to be the one including “any”. As such, the contention in that regard is to be rejected. 88. In any case, applying the principle of literal interpretation, the evaluation committee/BEC would be entitled to reject only such of the price bids if it finds that the rates quoted by the bidders are not [2024] 1 S.C.R. 963 Jaipur Vidyut Vitran Nigam Ltd. & Ors. v. MB Power (Madhya Pradesh) Limited & Ors. aligned to the prevailing market prices. It does not stipulate rejection of all the bids in the bidding process. For example, if in a bidding process, which is in accordance with the Bidding Guidelines and is transparent, 5 bidders emerged. Out of the said bidders, the rates quoted by only 3 bidders are market aligned and the rates quoted by rest of the 2 bidders are not market aligned. In accordance with the Bidding Guidelines, the BEC would be entitled to recommend acceptance of the bids of the first 3 bidders and reject the bids of rest of the 2 bidders whose quoted rates/prices are not found to be market aligned.