Similarly, the Seller shall pay all amounts due under a Supplementary Bill raised by Procurer(s) by the Due Date to concerned Procurer’s designated bank account and notify such Procurer(s) of such payment on the same day. For such payments by the Procurer(s), Rebate as applicable to Monthly Bills pursuant to Article 8.3.6 shall equally apply. 8.8.3 In the event of delay in payment of a Supplementary Bill by either Party beyond its Due [2024] 3 S.C.R. 1031 Jaipur Vidyut Vitran Nigam Ltd. & Ors. v. Adani Power Rajasthan Ltd. & Anr. Date, a Late Payment Surcharge shall be payable at the same terms applicable to the Monthly Bill in Article 8.3.5. 8.9 The copies of all; notices/offers which are required to be sent as per the provisions of this Article 8, shall be sent by a party, simultaneously to all parties.” Liability of the Late Payment Surcharge which has been saddled upon the appellants is at the rate of 2% in excess of applicable SBAR per annum, on the amount of outstanding payment, calculated on a day to day basis (and compounded with monthly rest) for each day of the delay. Therefore, there shall be huge liability of payment of Late Payment Surcharge upon the appellants-Rajasthan Discoms. 67. With regard to the question of interest/late payment surcharge, we notice that the plea of change in law was initially raised by APRL in the year 2013. A case was also filed by APRL in the year 2013 itself raising its claim on such basis. However, the appellants-Rajasthan Discoms did not allow the claim regarding change in law, because of which APRL was deprived of raising the bills with effect from the date of change in law in the year 2013. We are, thus, of the opinion that considering the totality of the facts of this case and in to do complete justice and to reduce the liability of the appellants-Rajasthan Discoms, payment of 2 per cent in excess of the applicable SBAR per annum with monthly rest would be on higher side. In our opinion, it would be appropriate to direct the appellants-Rajasthan Discoms to pay interest/late payment surcharge as per applicable SBAR for the relevant years, which should not exceed 9 per cent per annum. It is also provided that instead of monthly rest, the interest would be compounded per annum. 68. We accordingly direct that the rate of interest/late payment surcharge would be at SBAR, not exceeding 9 per cent per annum, to be compounded annually, and the 2 per cent above the SBAR (as provided in Article 8.3.5 of PPA) would not be charged in the present case. 1032 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 69. Before we part with the case, we may notice that Shri Prashant Bhushan, raised the submission with respect to over-invoicing. He attracted our attention to the investigation pending before the DRI. He has submitted that 40 importers of coal are under investigation by the DRI concerning alleged over-invoicing. The letter of rogatory was issued.