It reads as thus: - (i) All open forest area (10% to 40 % canopy density} under private ownership shall be identified as deemed forest in the state of Goa, whereas most of this open forest area is habitation area having trees planted traditionally by the people around. their houses for meeting their daily needs of food, fruits, firewood, small timber, agriculture implement etc. (ii) If a person wants to plant 10 trees preferred by him like Mango, Tamarind, teak, jackfruit, chickoo, kathal, etc in his own land of one hectare for the above mentioned needs it will cross the threshold of 0.1 canopy density and be declared as private forests. (iii) It will be a huge disincentive for the small land owners, whose lands will fall under private forest and they will be compelled to seek approval under FCA, 1980 from the Central Government for every parcel of land which may discourage the people of Goa to plant, protect and conserve trees on their lands. Such land owners would lose their right to use their own land for their bona fide needs in view of stringent conditions as laid down in various provisions of the FCA, 1980. (iv) This criteria being independent of ownership, will also attract almost all of the government, private office and residential complexes, educational and other institutions since one hectare criteria with 0.1 canopy density will be applicable to the entire state of Goa. (v) The people, who have cleared the forest / trees on their land before 1996, would appear to be in advantageous position in the eyes of private forest owners. [2024] 1 S.C.R. 737 T. N. Godavarman Thirumulpad v. Union of India and Others (vi) It may give a wrong message to private land holders to not only destroy existing forests/ tree vegetation but there would be no incentive for planting trees or helping in their conservation in ·. view of the restrictions being placed on the usage of their own land. (vii) As per dated 12.12.1996 passed by this Hon’ble Court in T. N. Godavarman Vs Union of India, W.P No.202/1995, Govt. of Goa initiated the process of identification of private forests in true spirit following the existing criteria. It is being confirmed using satellite imageries and ground verification by a Review Committee at present. These criteria as mentioned in above para number 4 were formulated by State of Goa way back in 1991 based on the High Court of Bombay in Writ petition No.162/1987, Shivanand Salgaonkar Vs. Tree officer & others. And it has taken almost two decades to identify and demarcate this private forest area on the ground, which is still not complete and is being done presently by the Review Committee. Reducing the criteria to 0.1 Canopy Density and 1 Hectare will again restart the process to bring large number of private lands with few trees under private forests thereby adversely impacting even the small land owners who have protected trees in good spirit. (viii) It will be a huge burden on small land owners (i) to find alternative land for Compensatory Afforestation and (ii) to pay Net Present Value (NPV) for his own small bonafide needs such as extension/ construction of even one room use of even small part of his land, and for planting of trees by removal of existing trees on his own land under CA.