SBI has stated that the lenders have been saddled with huge recurring expenditure every month to maintain the remaining airline assets of the Corporate Debtor. The lenders have been embroiled in litigation before the NCLT and NCLAT with little progress on this ground towards implementing the resolution plan. Such a state of affairs cannot be permitted to continue interminably as it defeats the very object and purpose of the provisions of and timelines under the IBC. The timely resolution of insolvency cases is vital for sustaining the effectiveness and credibility of the insolvency framework. Therefore, concerted efforts and decisive actions are imperative to break the deadlock and ensure the expeditious implementation of the resolution plan. 25. The lenders have argued in the appeals that there has been a failure on the part of the SRA to comply with the conditions precedent. If the SRA were to comply with the terms as envisaged in SBI’s affidavit dated 16 August 2023, evidently issues pertaining to compliance with the conditions precedent were not to be pressed thereafter. In to furnish this SRA a final opportunity to comply and consistent with the above position, we issue the following directions: (i) The SRA shall peremptorily on or before 31 January 2024, deposit an amount of Rs 150 crores into the designated account of SBI, failing which the consequences under the Resolution Plan shall follow; [2024] 1 S.C.R. 1061 State Bank of India and Ors v. The Consortium of Mr Murari Lal Jalan and Mr Florian Fritsch and Anr (ii) The PBG of Rs 150 crores shall continue to remain in operation and effect, pending the final disposal of the appeal before NCLAT, and shall abide by the final outcome of the appeal and the directions that may be issued by NCLAT; and (iii) Whether or not the SRA has been compliant with all the conditions of the Resolution Plan as well as of the conditions set out in paragraph 8 of the affidavit dated 16 August 2023 shall be decided by the NCLAT in the pending appeal. 26. The dated 28 August 2023 of the NCLAT is modified in part in terms of the above directions and, hence, the permission which was granted to the SRA to adjust the last tranche of Rs 150 crores against the PBG shall stand substituted by the above directions. 27. The NCLAT is requested to endeavour an expeditious disposal of the appeal by the end of March 2024. 28. The appeals are accordingly disposed of. 29. Pending applications, if any, stand disposed of. Headnotes prepared by: Divya Pandey Result of the case: Appeals disposed of.