Since the application could only be filed if the person had resided in India for at least six months before that, the provision only covered those who migrated to India after 19 July 1948 but before 26 July 1949. The ad-hoc/ temporary nature of the provision is evident from the provision itself. In addition to the use of the phrase ‘at the commencement of the Constitution’, the substantive portion also prescribes a temporal limit. 22. Article 6 grants citizenship to all persons who migrated from Pakistan to India till 26 July 1949. Article 7 carves out an exception to Article 6.33 The provision stipulates that notwithstanding the provisions of Articles 5 and 6, any person who migrated from India to Pakistan after 1 March 1947 shall not deemed to be a citizen. 1 March 1947 signifies the date from when the intense communal 33 “7. Rights of citizenship of certain migrants to Pakistan.- Notwithstanding anything in Articles 5 and 6, a person who has after the first day of March, 1947, migrated from the territory of India to the territory now included in Pakistan shall not be deemed to be a citizen of India: Provided that nothing in this article shall apply to a person who, after having so migrated to the territory now included in Pakistan, has returned to the territory of India under a permit for resettlement or permanent return issued by or under the authority of any law and every such person shall for the purposes of clause (b) of Article 6 be deemed to have migrated to the territory of India after the nineteenth day of July, 1948.” 1254 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports violence broke out in India, particularly in Punjab.34 Article 7 deals with re-migration. That is, the deeming citizenship conferred by Article 6 shall not apply to a person who before migrating from Pakistan to India had earlier migrated from India to Pakistan immediately after partition. The proviso to Article 7 provides an exception to those who remigrated to India under a ‘permit for resettlement or permanent return issued by or under the authority of any law’. According to the proviso, irrespective of the date when persons entered the Indian territory, it shall be deemed that they entered after 19 July 1948 for the purposes of Article 6(b). Thus, any person who falls under this category (migration must be completed between 1 March 1947 and before the commencement of the Constitution35) would have to register as citizens upon the submission of an application as prescribed by Article 6(b)(ii) of the Constitution. 23. Thus, the following conditions must be fulfilled to secure citizenship in terms of the proviso to Article 7: a. The person must have migrated from the Indian territory to the territory of Pakistan after 1 March 1947; b. The person must have migrated back from the territory of Pakistan to the Indian territory under a permit for resettlement or permanent return issued under the authority of any law; and c. The person, in terms of Article 6(b)(ii), must apply for citizenship to such officer of the Government before the commencement of the Constitution (that is, 26 January 1950).