In K. Veeraswami (supra), K. Jagannatha Shetty, J. pronounced the for himself and M.N. Venkatachaliah, J. (as His Lordship then was) on the question of contents of the chargesheet and observed: [2024] 6 S.C.R. 111 Sharif Ahmed and Another v. State of Uttar Pradesh and Another “75. In the view that we have taken as to the nature of the offence created under clause (e), it may not be necessary to examine the contention relating to ingredient of the offence. But since the legality of the charge-sheet has been impeached, we will deal with that contention also. Counsel laid great emphasis on the expression “for which he cannot satisfactorily account” used in clause (e) of Section 5(1) of the Act. He argued that that term means that the public servant is entitled to an opportunity before the Investigating Officer to explain the alleged disproportionality between assets and the known sources of income. The Investigating Officer is required to consider his explanation and the charge-sheet filed by him must contain such averment. The failure to mention that requirement would vitiate the charge-sheet and renders it invalid. This submission, if we may say so, completely overlooks the powers of the Investigating Officer. The Investigating Officer is only required to collect material to find out whether the offence alleged appears to have been committed. In the course of the investigation, he may examine the accused. He may seek his clarification and if necessary he may cross check with him about his known sources of income and assets possessed by him. Indeed, fair investigation requires as rightly stated by Mr A.D. Giri, learned Solicitor General, that the accused should not be kept in darkness. He should be taken into confidence if he is willing to cooperate. But to state that after collection of all material the Investigating Officer must give an opportunity to the accused and call upon him to account for the excess of the assets over the known sources of income and then decide whether the accounting is satisfactory or not, would be elevating the Investigating Officer to the position of an enquiry officer or a judge. The Investigating Officer is not holding an enquiry against the conduct of the public servant or determining the disputed issues regarding the disproportionality between the assets and the income of the accused. He just collects material from all sides and prepares a report which he files in the court as charge-sheet.” 112 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports The latter portion of the aforesaid paragraph, referring to the details of the offence and the requirement for them to be proved in to bring home the guilt of the accused at the later stage (the stage of trial) by adducing acceptable evidence, has to be understood in the context that the chargesheet need not elaborately evaluate the evidence, as the process of evaluation is a matter of trial. This does not mean that the chargesheet should not disclose or refer to the facts as to meet the requirements of Section 173(2) of the Code, and the mandate of the State rules.