(2) The number of candidate to be admitted to the Main Examination will be fifteen times the total number of vacancies (category-wise) but in the said range all those candidates who secure the same percentage of marks on the last cut-off will be admitted to the main examination. Note: - To qualify for Main Examination, the candidates of SC/ST category shall have to secure minimum 40% marks and candidates of all other categories shall have to secure 45% minimum marks in the Preliminary Examination. [2024] 8 S.C.R. 495 Rekha Sharma v. The Rajasthan High Court, Jodhpur & Anr. (3) The number of candidates to be admitted to the interview shall be, as far as practicable three times the total number of vacancies category-wise. Provided that to qualify for interview, a candidate shall have to secure a minimum of 35% marks in each of the law papers and 40% marks in aggregate in the Main Examination. Provided further that a candidate belonging to Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe category, shall be deemed to be eligible for interview, if he has obtained minimum of 30% marks in each of the law papers and 35% marks in the aggregate in the Main Examination. (4) It shall be compulsory to appear, in each and every paper of written test, as also before the lnterview Board for viva voce. A candidate, who has failed to appear in any of the written paper or before the board for viva voce shall not be recommended for appointment. (5) The examination scheme for recruitment to the cadre of Civil Judge shall consist of : l. Preliminary Examination (Objective Type) ll. Main Examination (Subjective Type) lll. Interview……” 7. As per the notice dated 11.01.2022 declaring the result of the Preliminary Examination held on 28.11.2021, the respondents had mentioned the following cut off marks for the respective categories mentioned in the advertisement. Cut-off Marks Category Cut Off Marks General 72 General (Divorcee) 58 General (Widow) 45 SC 55 SC (Divorcee) 39 496 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports ST 53 OBC-NCL 67 OBC-NCL (Divorcee) 63 OBC-NCL (Widow) 46 MBC-NCL 46 EWS 69 8. Though the Learned Counsels for the appellants have strenuously urged that it was incumbent on part of the respondents to show the cut off marks for the category of Persons with benchmark disabilities, particularly when the cut off marks for each of the categories mentioned in the advertisement in question were shown, it is difficult to accept the said submissions. Apart from the fact that the appellants having participated in the Selection Process in respect of the advertisement in question and having failed to succeed in the Preliminary Examination, had filed the writ petitions in the High Court, the appellants have also failed to substantiate their contention that it was incumbent on part of the respondents to fix the cut off marks for the category of Persons with benchmark disabilities. As could be seen from the advertisement itself, the reservation in favour of the Persons with disabilities was an Overall Horizontal Reservation and was not compartmentalised reservation, because out of the total vacancies mentioned in the advertisement, five posts were reserved for the Persons with benchmark disabilities.