Since Section 3 only provides for imposition of stamp duty as per rates prescribed in the Schedule and there is no such rate of duty indicated, the state government cannot demand stamp duty from the appellant on insurance policies. Alternatively, the learned ASG has argued that even if the 1952 Act applies, as considered by the High Court in the impugned , the stamp duty could not have been paid to the Rajasthan government in the present case due to the admitted unavailability of India Insurance stamps with the treasury. Relying on the letter from the department dated 07.10.1991, he argued that the High Court erred in holding that only Agents License Fee stamps were unavailable when the letter clearly mentioned India Insurance stamps. Further, the letter also stated that these stamps are central government property and their supply and sale is not related to the state government. Relying on this letter by the department, the learned ASG has submitted that the government could not have then demanded payment of stamp duty in 2004. Lastly, he has argued that the High Court’s reliance on Section 3A to hold that the duty could have been paid in cash in case of unavailability of stamps is misplaced as sub-clause (4) of Section 3A clearly stipulates that the provision does not apply to payment of stamp duty chargeable on instruments specified in Entry 91 of List I. Since insurance policies are an instrument that fall under this entry, Section 3A does not apply to it and the appellant could not have paid the stamp duty in cash. The High Court erred in its conclusion as it had entirely failed to consider this sub-clause. A similar provision is also contained in Section 4(4) of the 1998 Act. Hence, he concluded that there was no way for the appellant to have paid stamp duty to the Rajasthan government and they had to purchase the stamps [2024] 5 S.C.R. 253 Life Insurance Corporation of India v. The State of Rajasthan and Ors. from outside the state as non-payment of duty would lead to evasion and an unstamped insurance policy would not be admissible in evidence. 6. Submissions by the respondent: Dr. Manish Singhvi, learned senior counsel for the state, has argued that the state has the power to impose and collect stamp duty on insurance policies under Entry 44 of List III. He has argued that while the power to prescribe the rate of such duty falls within the exclusive domain of the Parliament, the power to collect and impose the duty and to frame a charging provision lies with the Parliament and the state legislatures under Entry 44 of the Concurrent List, which is a sui generis provision. The legislative competence of the states extends to collecting stamp duty on instruments specified in Entry 91 of List I but does not extend to prescribing the rate of duty for such instruments. The power to prescribe the rate of stamp duty is clearly demarcated between the Union and the states through Entry 91 of List I and Entry 63 of List II.