[2024] 10 S.C.R. 645 Lalu Yadav v. The State of Uttar Pradesh & Ors. 10. While dismissing the writ petition under the impugned , presumably taking note of the contentions based on time lag of five years, the High Court relied on its Full Bench decisions in Ajit Singh @ Muraha v. State of U.P.,2 and in Satya Pal v. State of U.P.3. as well as the decision of this Court in State of Haryana and Ors. v. Bhajan Lal and Ors.4. It observed and held that there could be no interference with the investigation or staying arrest unless cognizable offence is not ex-facie discernible from the allegations contained in the FIR or there exists any statutory restriction operating against the power of the Police to investigate a case. There can be no two views on the exposition of law thus made relying on the said decisions. In the same breath we will have to say that those decisions can be no bar for the exercise of power under Section 482, Cr.P.C., in various other situations dealt with, in detail, by this Court, including in the decision in Bhajan Lal’s case (supra). 11. To determine whether the case in hand deserves to be quashed at the present stage we will refer to some of the decisions. We have already taken note of the fact that though there was an allegation in the FIR regarding commission of offence under Section 313, IPC, on completion of the investigation, the investigating agency itself omitted the offence under Section 313, IPC against the appellant-accused. In paragraph 102 of the decision in Bhajan Lal’s case (supra) this Court held thus: - “102. In the backdrop of the interpretation of the various relevant provisions of the Code under Chapter XIV and of the principles of law enunciated by this Court in a series of decisions relating to the exercise of the extraordinary power under Article 226 or the inherent powers under Section 482 of the Code which we have extracted and reproduced above, we give the following categories of cases by way of illustration wherein such power could be exercised either to prevent abuse of the process of any court or otherwise to secure the ends of justice, 2 2006 (56) ACC 433 3 [1996] Supp. 9 SCR 203 : 2000 CrLJ 569 4 [1990] Supp. 3 SCR 259 : AIR 1992 SC 604 646 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports though it may not be possible to lay down any precise, clearly defined and sufficiently channelised and inflexible guidelines or rigid formulae and to give an exhaustive list of myriad kinds of cases wherein such power should be exercised. (1) Where the allegations made in the first information report or the complaint, even if they are taken at their face value and accepted in their entirety do not prima facie constitute any offence or make out a case against the accused. (2) Where the allegations in the first information report and other materials, if any, accompanying the FIR do not disclose a cognizable offence, justifying an investigation by police officers under Section 156(1) of the Code except under an of a Magistrate within the purview of Section 155(2) of the Code.