When it is so used, those words and phrases must be construed as comprehending not only such things as they signify according to their nature and import but also those things which the interpretation clause declares that they shall include. The word “include” is also susceptible of other constructions which it is unnecessary to go into.” (emphasis added) Thereafter, in paragraphs 8 and 9, this Court held thus: “8. It cannot be denied that the business of a hotelier is carried on by adapting a building or premises in a suitable way to be used as a residential hotel where visitors come and stay and where there is arrangement for meals and other amenities are provided for their comfort and convenience. To have sanitary fittings etc. in a bathroom is one of the essential amenities or conveniences which are normally provided in any good hotel, in the present times. If the partitions in Jarrold case [(1887) 19 QB 647] could be treated as having been used for the purpose of the business of the trader, it is incomprehensible how sanitary fittings can be said to have no connection with the business of the hotelier. He can reasonably expect to get more custom and earn larger 840 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports profit by charging higher rates for the use of rooms if the bathrooms have sanitary fittings and similar amenities. We are unable to see how the sanitary fittings in the bathrooms in a hotel will not be “plant” within Section 10(vi)(b) read with Section 10(5) when it is quite clear that the intention of the legislature was to give it a wide meaning and that is why, articles like books and surgical instruments were expressly included in the definition of “plant”. In decided cases, the High Courts have rightly understood the meaning of the term “plant” in a wide sense. (See CIT v. Indian Turpentine and Rosin Co. Ltd. [(1970) 75 ITR 533]. 9. If the dictionary meaning of the word plant were to be taken into consideration on the principle that the literal construction of a statute must be adhered to unless the context renders it plain that such a construction cannot be put on the words in question — this is what is stated in Webster’s Third New International Dictionary: “Land, buildings, machinery, apparatus and fixtures employed in carrying on trade or other industrial business....” (emphasis added) 49. The next decision in the line is in the case of Anand Theatres.19 This was a case where the issue was whether a building which is used as a hotel or a cinema theatre can be considered as apparatus or a tool for running a business so that it can be termed as a plant and depreciation can be allowed on the same under the Income Tax Act, 1961. This Court dealt with Section 32, which provided for granting depreciation to buildings, machinery, and plants. This Court extensively referred to its earlier decision in the case of Taj Mahal Hotel18 and other decisions of this Court and High Courts.