It held that the Family Court’s jurisdiction to adjudicate interim maintenance under Section 24 of the HMA extends until the date of withdrawal of the [2024] 12 S.C.R. 549 Parvin Kumar Jain v. Anju Jain main petition, thereby ensuring that the dependent spouse’s financial security is not abruptly disrupted by procedural tactics. 11. With respect to Section 26 of the HMA, which pertains to custody, maintenance, and education of minor children, the High Court provided a detailed analysis of the statutory language and intention. It held that the provision explicitly permits Courts to make s “from time to time,” granting or modifying reliefs related to children, irrespective of the pendency or withdrawal of the main matrimonial proceedings. The High Court reasoned that matters concerning the welfare of children are not merely incidental to the matrimonial dispute but are of paramount and enduring importance. Recognizing that the interests of the children are paramount, the High Court clarified that the Family Court retains jurisdiction under Section 26 of the HMA even after withdrawal of the main petition, ensuring that children’s needs are addressed in an ongoing and dynamic manner. 12. The High Court also dismissed the appellant’s appeal placing reliance on the this Court’s decision in Ajay Mohan and Ors. v. H.N, Rai and Ors.,2 observing that the was delivered in a different context and was not applicable to matrimonial proceedings under the HMA. It noted that this Court in Ajay Mohan (Supra), did not address the specific statutory framework or the unique considerations governing Sections 24 and 26 of the HMA. Reaffirming its position, the High Court underscored that the provisions under Sections 24 and 26 of the HMA serve distinct and independent purposes—one ensuring financial support for the dependent spouse and the other protecting the welfare of minor children. It concluded that the Family Court’s jurisdiction to adjudicate these matters persists independent of the status of the primary matrimonial dispute, thereby reinforcing the legislative objective of ensuring fairness and equity in matrimonial proceedings. 13. The High Court, while deciding the correctness of interim maintenance provided by the Family Court, heavily relied on the of this Court in Rajnesh v. Neha and Another.3 This Court, in this laid down the principles to ensure equitable determination of financial support for the wife and dependent child. It reiterated that 2 [2007] 13 SCR 298 : (2008) 2 SCC 507 3 [2020] 13 SCR 1093 : (2021) 2 SCC 32 550 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports maintenance should be determined after considering the status and lifestyle of the parties, reasonable needs of the wife and children, the wife’s educational qualifications, professional skills, and earning capacity, as well as the appellant’s financial standing and obligations. It must also address the rising cost of living and inflation to ensure a standard of living that is proportionate to the appellant’s financial capacity and consistent with the standard of living the wife and children were accustomed to prior to separation. This Court highlighted that a husband cannot evade his duty of disclosure by concealing assets, as financial transparency is critical to the fair adjudication of maintenance claims.