Section 17 as it read before 08.04.2011 and after 08.04.2011 is reproduced below to better appreciate the nuances of the issue: 272 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Section 17: Assessment of Duty Before 08.04.2011 Between 08.04.2011 and 28.03.2018 (1) After an importer has entered (1) An importer entering any any imported goods under imported goods under section 46, section 46 or an exporter has or an exporter entering any export entered any export goods under goods under section 50, shall, section 50, the imported goods save as otherwise provided in or the export goods, as the case section 85, self-assess the duty, may be, or such part thereof as if any, leviable on such goods. may be necessary may, without undue delay, be examined and tested by the proper officer. (2) After such examination and (2) The proper officer may testing, the duty, if any, leviable verify the self-assessment on such goods shall, save as of such goods and for this otherwise provided in section 85, purpose, examine or test any be assessed. imported goods or export goods or such part thereof as may be necessary. (3) For the purpose of assessing (3) For verification of self- duty under sub-section (2), the assessment under sub-section proper officer may require the (2), the proper officer may require importer, exporter or any other the importer, exporter or any other person to produce any contract, person to produce any contract, broker’s note, policy of insurance, broker’s note, insurance policy, catalogue or other document catalogue or other document, whereby the duty leviable on the whereby the duty leviable on imported goods or export goods, the imported goods or export as the case may be, can be goods, as the case may be, can ascertained, and to furnish any be ascertained, and to furnish information required for such any information required for ascertainment which is in his such ascertainment which is in power to produce or furnish, and his power to produce or furnish, thereupon the importer, exporter and thereupon, the importer, or such other person shall produce exporter or such other person such document and furnish such shall produce such document or information. furnish such information. [2024] 12 S.C.R. 273 Commissioner of Customs v. M/s Canon India Pvt. Ltd. (4) Notwithstanding anything (4) Where it is found on verification, contained in this section, imported examination or testing of the goods or export goods may, prior to goods or otherwise that the self- the examination or testing thereof, assessment is not done correctly, be permitted by the proper officer the proper officer may, without to be assessed to duty on the basis prejudice to any other action which of the statements made in the entry may be taken under this Act, re- relating thereto and the documents assess the duty leviable on such produced and the information goods. Amendment of section 18. furnished under sub-section (3); but if it is found subsequently on examination or testing of the goods or otherwise that any statement in such entry or document or any information so furnished is not true in respect of any matter relevant to the assessment, the goods may, without prejudice to any other action which may be taken under this Act, be re-assessed to duty.