That being so, such rights, if any, which have become extinct cannot be the basis for a later cause of action. 35. No doubt, even in 1986, when Final Plot No. 187 was allotted to the plaintiffs, it was not free of occupation as it had been given to Pulkit Trust for utilization as a playground. Even if this action on the part of the Corporation is held to be not in good faith, it would only entail a claim for compensation or damages, but as noted by the Trial Court as well as the High Court, the plaintiffs did not choose to adduce any evidence in support of their claim for the quantified damages of 620 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports ₹1,63,97,673/-. No document was produced by the plaintiffs in proof of the price of land in Paldi area being ₹150/- per sq. yd. in the year 1963. Though reference was made to the decision of this Court in Union of India and another vs. Smt. Shanti Devi and others9 in the context of a return of 10% p.a. being anticipated from investment in land and a multiplier of 13% being adopted for the purpose of capitalization, this method of calculation would have had meaning had the value of the land in the present case at the relevant point of time been determined. However, as the plaintiffs did not adduce any evidence whatsoever in proof of their claim as to the market value of the land in question at the relevant point of time, this does not further their case, insofar as their claim for compensation/ damages is concerned. Reference to N. Nagendra Rao and Co. vs. State of A.P.10, in support of the plaintiffs’ claim for compensation owing to the negligence of the authorities is also of no avail as the principles contained therein would have had application if the plaintiffs’ claim for damages/compensation was duly supported by material evidence, which it is not. 36. Further, though it has been contended before us that the plaintiffs never actually received the compensation offered by the Corporation for the shortfall of 974 sq. mts. @ ₹25/- per sq. yd., it is an admitted fact that, pursuant to the and decree of the Trial Court, the plaintiffs did deposit the sum of ₹24,350/-, being the compensation for 974 sq. mts. @ ₹25/- per sq. mt., as directed by the Trial Court. Had it been their case that they did not receive such compensation, they ought not to have abided by the direction of the Trial Court and deposited that amount. This voluntary act on their part precludes them from contending, at this stage, that the said compensation was never paid to them and that they had deposited the amount as it was only a paltry sum. 37. The further argument of the plaintiffs that the Act of 1976 does not contemplate a second reduction in the reconstituted plot area does not merit acceptance. Section 45 of the Act of 1976 deals with reconstitution of plots and it is a settled legal position, per the decisions of this Court in Prakash Amichand Shah and Ahmedabad Green Belt 9 [1984] 1 SCR 217 : (1983) 4 SCC 542 10 [1994] Supp.