1049 Ajay Kumar Bhalla & Ors. v. Prakash Kumar Dixit 9. Thereafter, the Single Judge held the Inspector General of Police (Personnel) and DIG (Personnel) who held office as on 22 March 2023 guilty of contempt of court for willful disobedience of the directions contained in the of the Division Bench dated 24 December 2019. The Single Judge granted an opportunity to the appellants herein in the following terms : "41 This Court, however, grants an opportunity of six (6) weeks to the aforesaid Contemnors to issue a fresh granting promotion to the Petitioner to the rank of IG to bring him at par with his immediate junior as per the merit cum seniority list at the time of the appointment.” 10. It was observed that in case the contemnors did not issue appropriate s granting promotion to the respondent to the rank of IG within the time granted, the case would he heard for sentencing on the next date of hearing. 11. A Letters Patent Appeal was filed before the Division Bench against the of the Single Judge dated 2 June 2023. The Division Bench, however, rejected the Letters Patent Appeal as not being maintainable on the ground that an appeal under Section 19 of the Contempt of Courts Act would not be maintainable since no punishment had been imposed by the Single Judge and the observations made by the Single Judge were not to be construed as crystallizing any right in favour of the respondent. On this understanding, the Division Bench has observed as follows : "52 He submitted that if the observations made by the Court in the impugned are not construed as crystalising any rights in favour of the respondent and are only read as confined to the question whether the appellants have committed any willful disobedience of the of the Court, the appellants would be satisfied. 53 In view of our understanding of the impugned as noted above, the learned Single Judge has not decided any dispute regarding the rights and obligations of the parties other than whether the appellants had committed contempt of court. All 1050 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports observations made by the learned Single Judge must be read only for the purposes of determining whether the appellants had willfully violated the dated 24.12.2019 issued by this Court.” 12. The narrow issue which falls for consideration at the present stage is as to whether the Letters Patent Appeal against the of the Single Judge dated 2 June 2023 was maintainable. 13. The law on the subject is settled by a of a two Judge Bench of this Court in Midnapore Peoples’ Coop. Bank Ltd. and Others v. Chunilal Nanda and Others.1 Paragraph 11 of the decision sums up the principles succinctly as follows : "11 The position emerging from these decisions, in regard to appeals against s in contempt proceedings may be summarised thus: I. An appeal under Section 19 is maintainable only against an or decision of the High Court passed in exercise of its jurisdiction to punish for contempt, that is, an imposing punishment for contempt.