The Object and Reasons of the 1997 Act are also important, the portion relevant for our examination is reproduced below: 660 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “The National Housing Policy approved by the Central Government recommended that appropriate amendment in existing laws and regulations be carried out for creating enabling atmosphere for housing activities in the country. A number of export bodies such as the Economic Administration Reform Commission and the National Commission on Urbanisation have recommended reforming the rent legislation in a way that balances the interests of both the landlords and the tenants and also that stimulates future construction to meet the growing demands for housing. On the basis of the various recommendations of the experts and also after a series of consultations with the State Governments, the Ministry of Urban Development of India prepared a Model Rent Control Legislation, and sent to the States for consideration.” 12. The entire issue revolves around the interpretation of the phrase “for a period not exceeding five years from the date of death of such tenant or from the date of coming into force of this Act, whichever is later” used in section 2(g) of the 1997 Act. There is no ambiguity in case the original tenant passes away after the commencement of 1997 Act, as in such a case, it is clear that the specified heirs will get a limited protection of five years only. The difficulty is in enforcing the above provision of section 2(g) of 1997 Act in a situation where the original tenant had died before the commencement of 1997 Act i.e., prior to July 10, 2001. The matter at hand falls in the latter. The Single Judge in Goutam Dey (supra) observed that a literal reading of ‘or from the date of coming into force of this Act, whichever is later’ would lead to absurd results as all tenancies devolved under the 1956 Act, would end together on the same day (July 9, 2006), i.e., five years after the enforcement of the 1997 Act! Thus, the Single Judge held the aforesaid phrase to be redundant and a piece of loose drafting by the State Legislature. 13. Subsequently, the Calcutta High Court considered this issue in Prabir Kumar Jalan v. Laxmi Narayan Jalan, 2012 SCC OnLine Cal 1313 where another Bench of a learned Single Judge did assign meaning to the phrase, which was referred to as a piece of loose drafting [2024] 9 S.C.R. 661 Rajesh Mitra @ Rajesh Kumar Mitra & Anr. v. Karnani Properties Ltd. in Gautam Dey (supra). In Prabir Kumar (supra), the High Court decreed the suit for eviction against the respondent-defendant therein and observed that if the Legislature intended to apply section 2(g) of 1997 Act only to the deaths which would have occurred after the commencement of the new Act, then legislature was not required to use the phrase “or from the date of coming into force of this Act, whichever is later”. This is what was said: “21.