The said Report stated in so many words that the rejects did not contain any useful c.v. Reliance placed by the respondent-CBI on the revised Mining Plan submitted by the appellants to the MoC in 2010, that mentions a new technology for utilization of rejects for its carbon value, namely FBC is of no consequence as the said technology had not even been introduced when MoC approved the original Mining Plan, submitted by KECML in the year 2004. Even otherwise, it is not in dispute that for applying the said technology, a plant was required to be established after obtaining necessary approvals from several agencies. The plant could not be established by [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1239 M/s Karnataka Emta Coal Mines Limited and Another v. Central Bureau of Investigation KECML for the reason that the revised Mining Plan submitted by it was approved by the MoC only on 24th August, 2011. Consequent steps that were required to be taken by KECML for obtaining necessary approvals from the MoEF&CC and other govt. agencies came to a grinding halt when an was passed by this Court in the year 2014, deallocating all captive coal blocks, including those allocated to KPCL. Therefore, any reference by the respondent-CBI to the revised Mining Plan is of no consequence. 17. PERSUASIVE VALUE OF THE ARYAN ENERGY CASE 17.1 KPCL’s entitlement over the coal rejects has been separately tested by the High Court of Karnataka in the case of Aryan Energy (supra). Pertinently, in that case the clauses forming a part of the Agreement between KPCL and Aryan Energy particularly with respect to the disposal of the coal rejects is the same as in the instant case. Aryan Energy was also required to dispose off the coal rejects by making compliance of the environmental regulations. In the said case, the High Court of Karnataka returned a finding that KPCL did not have any claim over the coal rejects generated during washing of coal. The view taken was that as long as disposal of the coal rejects was in line with the environmental regulations, KPCL did not have any role to play in the disposal of the coal rejects. It was specifically observed by the High Court that the agreement between KPCL and Aryan Energy included a condition that KPCL would only buy washed coal at a predetermined price and that it was not entitled to lay a claim on the coal rejects generated during the processing of raw coal. In view of the terms and conditions of the agreement between the parties, the High Court concluded that KPCL could not have raised any demand on Aryan Energy claiming reimbursement for the value of the coal rejects. It is a matter of record that although KPCL had challenged the judgement and dated 22nd July, 2021 passed by the High Court of Karnataka44 before this court, the said petitions were disposed of on 26th April, 2014 noting that the parties had settled their inter se disputes amongst themselves in terms of a Compromise Deed and as a result, part of the decretal amount deposited by KPCL before the Commercial Court was agreed to be released in favour of Aryan Energy.