623 M/s Bajaj Alliance General Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Rambha Devi & Ors. the MV Act and noted that under certain circumstances, insurers could limit their liability, but they were still bound to pay compensation to third parties. The right of third parties to compensation was protected by law, and the insurer could later recover the amount from the insured if any policy violation occurred. The Supreme Court categorically held that since the driver had a valid LMV licence, and the Mahindra Maxi Cab was classified as an LMV, the insurance company was liable to pay the compensation. The following was the relevant discussion for what appears to be the correct conclusion in S Iyyappan (supra):- “18. In the instant case, admittedly the driver was holding a valid driving licence to drive light motor vehicle. There is no dispute that the motor vehicle in question, by which accident took place, was Mahindra Maxi Cab. Merely because the driver did not get any endorsement in the driving licence to drive Mahindra Maxi Cab, which is a light motor vehicle, the High Court has committed grave error of law in holding that the insurer is not liable to pay compensation because the driver was not holding the licence to drive the commercial vehicle. The impugned [ Civil Misc. Appeal No. 1016 of 2002, dated 31-10-2008 (Mad)] is, therefore, liable to be set aside.” 96. Similarly, in Kulwant Singh v. Oriental Insurance Co. Ltd,43 the question for consideration was whether the Insurance Company had recovery rights for breach of conditions of insurance policy when the driver possesses a valid driving licence for driving light vehicle but fails to obtain endorsement for driving goods vehicle? In that case, the L/Rs of the deceased had filed a claim before the MACT following a road accident death on 8.10.2005. The deceased was driving a tempo which was hit by a Tata-407 Tempo. The tribunal held that the claimants were entitled to compensation. The High Court, however, held that there was a breach of policy conditions and the insurance company was entitled to recover the compensation amount from the owner of the vehicle. 96.1. The 2-judge bench of the Supreme Court opined that the issue stands covered by the in S. Iyyapan (supra). It therefore held that the insurance company could not 43 (2015) 2 SCC 186 624 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports avoid liability merely because, the driver did not have an endorsmement to drive a commercial vehicle. 96.2. In view of the reasons assigned by us and as rightly noted in Mukund Dewangan (2017), the decisions in S. Iyyapan (supra) and Kulwant Singh (supra) were decided correctly. However, as regards the reliance on Annappa Irappa Nesaria (supra), post-amendment in Section 10 also, the law continues to be the same for vehicles falling within the LMV category. 96.3. Therefore, the s where the Court has held that a separate endorsement for a ‘transport vehicle’ may not be necessary i.e. in Ashok Gangadhar Maratha (supra), Nagashetty (supra), S. Iyyapan (supra) and Kulwant Singh (supra) are found to align with our reasoning and interpretation and they are therefore upheld.