Scope of judicial intervention 22. In the context of maintainability, NTBCL has also contended that the High Court should not have intervened in a commercial contract such as the Concession Agreement and rendered its provisions invalid, as it amounts to judicial interference into a Governmental Policy. 23. While considering these submissions, the High Court conducted a detailed analysis and has addressed them based on two principal rationales: (i) the judicial review of administrative action, and (ii) the public interest factor. These rationales were employed to determine whether the Court had the jurisdiction to adjudicate on the validity of the Concession Agreement and the levying of toll upon commuters using the DND Flyway. 24. Having said that, we also deem it necessary to embark on an independent analysis and assess whether the conclusion of the High Court having employed such rationale would hold sway. First, regarding the judicial review of administrative action, NTBCL has contended that courts cannot interfere in contractual obligations or policy decisions. 25. It is indeed true that the Concession Agreement and the MoU involved the NOIDA authorities as a party, and the decision to grant development and construction rights to NTBCL was somewhat a policy decision by the Government, considering the financial and technical constraints present at the time. The crucial question, however, is whether such commercial contracts, which may stem from a Government Policy decision or where one of the parties is the State or its instrumentalities, are entirely insulated from judicial review. 26. This issue is no longer res integra and there is no absolute bar on the maintainability of writ petitions, even in matters concerning contracts or monetary claims. In such cases, the discretion lies with the Court as held in Joshi Technologies International Inc. v. Union of India,9 which summarised the legal position on judicial review of contracts entered into by public authorities with private parties. Judicial review, being a dynamic process as opposed to static, has experienced a significant shift in terms of the degree of 9 Joshi Technologies International Inc. v. Union of India, (2015) 7 SCC 728. 2022 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports judicial interference in contractual disputes, especially when one of the parties involved is the State or its instrumentalities.10 27. This is because when contractual power is exercised for public purposes, the State and its instrumentalities bear the responsibility to act fairly, without arbitrariness or caprice.11 In such situations, where State action is challenged as arbitrary or capricious, courts are justified in intervening through judicial review to determine whether the State has adhered to the principles embodied in Article 14 of the Constitution of India, which mandates fairness and non-arbitrariness in State actions. Considering that the Concession Agreement involves not only entities like IL&FS and NTBCL but also a Public Authority such as NOIDA, it is evident that the Concession Agreement, though commercial in nature, is subject to judicial scrutiny. This is particularly true given the public interest concerns raised by Respondent No. 1, while challenging the fairness and legality of the toll collection and overall execution of the Agreement.