All effective measures would be adopted to prevent infiltrators crossing or attempting to cross the international b. 10. It will be ensured that relevant laws for prevention of encroachment of government lands and lands in tribal belts and blocks are strictly enforced and unauthorized encroachers evicted as laid down under such laws. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1169 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 11. It will be ensured that the law restricting acquisition of immovable property by foreigners in Assam is strictly enforced. 12. It will be ensured that Birth and Death Registers are duly maintained. Restoration of Normalcy: 13. The All-Assam Students Unions (AASU) and the All Assam Gana Sangram Parishad (AAGSP) call off the agitation, assure full co-operation and dedicate themselves towards the development of the Country. 14. The Central and the State Government have agreed to: a. Review with sympathy and withdraw cases of disciplinary action taken against employees in the context of the agitation and to ensure that there is no victimization; b. Frame a scheme for ex-gratia payment to next of kin of those who were killed in the course in the agitation. c. Give sympathetic consideration to proposal for relaxation of upper age limit for employment in public service in Assam, having regard to exceptional situation that prevailed in holding academic and competitive examinations etc. in the context of agitation in Assam: d. Undertake review of detention cases, if any, as well as cases against persons charged with criminal offences in connection with the agitation, except those charged with commission of heinous offences. e. Consider withdrawal of the prohibitory s/ notifications in force, if any: 15. The Ministry of Home Affairs will be the nodal Ministry for the implementation of the above. 1170 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Signed/- Signed/- R.D. Pradhan P.K. Mahanta Home Secretary President Govt. of India All Assam Students Union Signed/- Signed/- Signed/- (B.K. Phukan) (Biraj Sharma) (Smt. PP General Convenor Trivedi) Secretary All Assam Chief Secretary All Assam Gana Sangram Govt. of Assam Students Union Parishad In the presence of Signed/- (RAJIV GANDHI) PRIME MINISTER OF INDIA Date: 15th August, 1985 Place: New Delhi" 74. The clauses of the Accord dealt with, inter-alia, the following issues: - • The foreigners’ issue in Assam; • Constitutional, legislative and administrative safeguards for cultural, social and linguistic identity and heritage of the Assamese people; • Economic development of Assam; • Security of the international b; • Restricting acquisition of immovable property by foreigners; • Prevention of encroachment of government lands; • Registration of births and deaths; • Call-off of the agitation by the protesting groups; • Withdrawal of cases against persons involved in the agitation; and • Framing of scheme for payment of ex-gratia compensation to next of kin of those who were killed during the agitation, etc. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1171 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 75. For the purpose of the present discussion, it is important to highlight the features of clause 5 of the Accord which deals with the foreigners’ issue and also forms the basis of Section 6A of the Citizenship Act.