The Gauhati High Court dismissed the petition for quashing which has given rise to the appeal filed by Chandra Mohan Badaya whereas Rajasthan High Court quashed the proceedings which has given rise to the appeals filed by the State of Arunachal Pradesh. 6. Before entering into the arguments advanced by the parties, we may briefly refer to the contents of the complaint being FIR No.227 of 2017. According to the complaint, Rajesh Natani and Chandra Mohan Badaya contacted the complainant firm requesting for amount of Rs.1 Crore for consideration /exchange of land/building situated between Plot No.A-47 to A55, Sikar House, near Chandpole, Jaipur, Rajasthan. The said amount was deposited in four instalments on 19.07.2016, 20.07.2016, 22.07.2016 and 25.07.2016 in the accounts of Shri Ram Enterprises, A.R. Properties and Colonisers, Shashi Natani w/o Rajesh Natani and Chandra Mohan Badaya, as full payment for the sale of the aforesaid land/building. Thereafter, when the complainant visited the place of land/building, the accused persons refused to hand over the same. As such, it was clear that the accused persons had cheated resulting into suffering, mental agony, and financial loss. The accused persons failed to fulfil the above conditions of transferring the land. All the accused persons have conspired to cheat/commit fraud with the applicant. All the accused persons have earned huge amount through unlawful means and instead of fulfilling their promises, they threatened the complainant with consequences. Finding no other alternative, the FIR had been lodged for taking appropriate action against the accused persons. 3 [1992] Supp. 3 SCR 735 : (1992) Suppl. 1 SCC 335 630 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 7. The FIR mentions the address of the complainant Mr. Anil Agrawal to be the address of the firm M/s Shiv Bhandar in Pasighat, East Siang District, Arunachal Pradesh. The residential address of the complainant Anil Agrawal is not given in the FIR. The address of all the six accused named in the FIR is that of Jaipur City, Rajasthan. The property for which the alleged payment of Rs.1 Crore is said to have been made is also situate in Jaipur, Rajasthan. The transaction of bank details is not mentioned in the FIR. 8. Apart from the fact that the complainant is said to be placed at Arunachal Pradesh, no other fact relevant to the alleged offence is said to be in or within the State of Arunachal Pradesh but still the FIR had been registered there. Clearly, the reason for lodging the FIR was that the accused persons were not willing to execute the sale deed for which they had taken the sale consideration of Rs.1 Crore. 9. The Gauhati High Court dismissed the petitions for quashing on the finding that no exceptional circumstances exist calling for quashing of the proceedings. Whereas, the Rajasthan High Court proceeded to quash the proceedings on the ground that no part of the cause of action had arisen in the State of Arunachal Pradesh rather entire cause of action was in the state of Rajasthan, hence, the Police/ Court in Arunachal Pradesh lacked territorial jurisdiction to entertain the FIR and all subsequent proceedings.