This Court noticed that the Governor exercised the power to grant remission, without being appraised of material facts concerning the prisoner, such as, his involvement in five other criminal cases of serious nature, the rejection of his earlier clemency petition and the report of the jail authority that his conduct inside the jail was far from satisfactory and that out of the two years and five months he was supposed to have been in jail, he was in fact out on parole during the substantial part thereof. The Court further held that when the Governor was not in the know of material facts, the Governor was deprived of the opportunity to exercise the power to grant remission in a fair and just manner and that the granting remission fringed on arbitrariness. Therefore, the of the Governor granting remission, was quashed, with a direction to [2024] 1 S.C.R. 881 Bilkis Yakub Rasool v. Union of India & Others re-consider the petition of the prisoner in light of the materials which the Governor had no occasion to know earlier. As regards the question as to the power of judicial review over an passed by the Governor under Article 161 of the Constitution, the following observations were made: “10. A Constitution Bench of this Court has considered the scope of judicial review of exercise of powers under Articles 72 and 161 of the Constitution of India in Kehar Singh v. Union of India (1989) 1 SSC 204. The bench after observing that the Constitution of India is a constitutive document which is fundamental to the governance of the country under which people of India have provided a constitutional polity consisting of certain primary organs, institutions and functionaries to exercise the powers provided in the Constitution, proceeded to add thus: “All power belongs to the people and it is entrusted by them to specified institutions and functionaries with the intention of working out, maintaining and operating a constitutional .” The Constitution Bench laid down that judicial review of the Presidential cannot be exercised on the merits except within the strict limitations defined in Maru Ram v. Union of India (1981) 1 SCC 107. The limitations of judicial review over exercise of powers under Articles 72 and 161 of the Constitution have been delineated in the said decision by the constitution Bench. It has been observed that “all public power, including constitutional power, shall never be exercisable arbitrarily or mala fide, and ordinarily guidelines for fair and equal execution are guarantors of valid play of power.” The bench stressed the point that the power being of the greatest moment, cannot be a law unto itself but it must be informed by the finer canons of constitutionalism. 11. It was therefore, suggested by the bench to make rules for its own guidance in the exercise of the pardon power keeping a large residuary power to meet special situations or sudden developments. 882 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 12. In view of the aforesaid settled legal position, we cannot accept the rigid contention of the learned counsel for the third respondent that this Court has no power to touch the passed by the Governor under Article 161 of the constitution.