Parties may be aggrieved by an . Judges are never aggrieved by an which is passed by a higher constitutional or appellate forum. 5. The Attorney General for India and the Solicitor General, while dilating on the background of the case which led to the passing of the dated 17 July 2024, have submitted that the of the Single Judge has affected the dignity not only of this Court, but of the High Court as well. 6. This Court is constrained to take suo motu notice of the contents of the dated 17 July 2024 passed by the Single Judge in view of the fact that such observations tend to bring the entire judicial machinery into disrepute. This affects not only the dignity of this Court, but of the High Courts as well. We are accordingly of the view that such observations were wholly unnecessary for the conduct of the judicial proceedings before the High Court and ought to have been eschewed. Though there is a merit in the submission which has been urged by the Attorney General and the Solicitor General, we are inclined to exercise a degree of restraint in pursuing a further course of action based on the observations of the Single Judge. 7. The Court is apprised of the fact that the Division Bench of the High Court presided over by the Chief Justice has taken suo motu notice3 of the observations made by the Single Judge and stayed the operation of the of the Single Judge. 8. Notwithstanding the aforesaid exercise which has been carried out bona fide by the Bench presided over by the Chief Justice, we are of the view that in a situation where the authority of this Court is 3 CWP-19068-2024 (O&M) dated 7 August 2024 [2024] 8 S.C.R. 953 In Re: of Punjab and Haryana High Court dated 17.07.2024 and Ancillary Issues undermined by gratuitous observations made by the Single Judge, it is the plain function of this Court to set right any attempt to dislocate the sanctity of judicial authority and maintenance of judicial discipline. We accordingly expunge the observations which have been made by Justice Rajbir Sehrawat in the dated 17 July 2024 and expect that greater caution should be exercised in the future while dealing with s of the Supreme Court and, for that matter, the s passed by the Division Bench of the High Court. Whether individual judges are in agreement with the merits or otherwise of an passed by a superior court is besides the point. Every Judge is bound by the discipline which the hierarchical nature of the judicial system imposes within the system. No Judge is personally affected by the s passed either by the Division Bench of the High Court or, as the case may be, by the Supreme Court. 9. The dated 17 July 2024 is compounded by a video which has been circulating indicating random, gratuitous and unwarranted remarks made by Justice Rajbir Sehrawat during the course of the hearing.