[2024] 5 S.C.R. 470 : 2024 INSC 371 A (Mother of X) v. State of Maharashtra & Anr. (Civil Appeal No. 5194 of 2024) 29 April 2024 [Dr. Dhananjaya Y. Chandrachud,* CJI, J.B. Pardiwala and Manoj Misra, JJ.] Issue for Consideration Matter pertains to the opinion of the medical board constituted under the MTP Act to reflect the effect of the pregnancy on the pregnant person’s physical and mental health; that the MTP Act and the reproductive right of a pregnant person giving primacy to their consent; and the usage of term ‘pregnant person’ instead of term ‘pregnant woman’. Headnotes Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act, 1971 – Termination of pregnancy – 14 year old girl subjected to sexual assault, sought permission to terminate her pregnancy – Denied by the High Court on the ground that the pregnancy exceeded the statutory period of twenty-four weeks – In appeal, this Court on basis of the fresh report of the medical Board, allowed termination of pregnancy – When the said passed, the minor was in the thirtieth week of her pregnancy – Thereafter, minor girl’s parents changing their statements, and matter again before this Court: Held: Sole and only consideration which must weigh with the Court at this stage is the safety and welfare of the minor – In view thereof, the earlier passed by this Court is recalled – Said decision made in light of the decisional and bodily autonomy of the pregnant person and her parents – Performing a procedure for termination of an advanced pregnancy, gestational age of the fetus nearing end of thirty first week, is subject to risks involving the well-being and safety of the minor as explained by the medical team at the hospital – Guardians of the girl, namely her parents, also consented for taking the pregnancy to term, as permissible u/s. 3(4)(a) – View of the minor girl and her parents to take the pregnancy to term in tandem of the MTP Act – Furthermore, the * Author [2024] 5 S.C.R. 471 A (Mother of X) v. State of Maharashtra & Anr. MTP Act does not allow any interference with the personal choice of a pregnant person in terms of proceeding with the termination – Act or indeed the jurisprudence around abortion developed by the courts leave no scope for interference by family or partner of a pregnant person in matters of reproductive choice – Role of the registered medical practitioners-RMPs and the medical board must be in a manner which allows the pregnant person to freely exercise their choice – In view thereof, the hospital directed to bear all the expenses in regard to the hospitalization of the minor over the past week and in respect of her readmission to the hospital for delivery – In the event that the minor and her parents desire to give the child in adoption after the delivery, the State Government to take all necessary steps. [Paras 19, 32, 33, 35, 36] Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act, 1971 – ss.