From time immemorial, the principle has been that the excessive bail is no bail. To grant bail and thereafter to impose excessive and onerous conditions, is to take away with the left hand, what is given with the right. As to what is excessive will depend on the facts and circumstances of each case. In the present case, the petitioner is experiencing a genuine difficulty in finding multiple sureties. Sureties are essential to ensure the presence of the accused, released on bail. At the same time, where the court is faced with the situation where the accused enlarged on bail is unable to find sureties, as ed, in multiple cases, there is also a need to balance the requirement of furnishing the sureties with his or her fundamental rights under Article 21 of the Constitution of India. An which would protect the person’s fundamental right under Article 21 and at the same time guarantee the presence, would be reasonable and proportionate. As to what such an should be, will again depend on the facts and circumstances of each case. 24. In Satender Kumar Antil v. Central Bureau of Investigation (2022) 10 SCC 51, this Court held that “imposing a condition which is impossible of compliance would be defeating the very object of release.” 26. NALSA Lawyers step in to obtain translated copies of documents wherever necessary; ensure that in case of a foreign national, the concerned High Commission is informed and also make submissions if the suspect/arrestee appears to be a child/juvenile. Statistics reveal that as of June, 2024, 17,894 suspects have been given legal assistance at the pre arrest stage at the Police Station. Of them, 7,466 were not arrested. It is set out that 13,747 accused were provided assistance at the Police Station before producing them in Courts, 94,875 at the remand stage, 37,929 bail applications were filed at the remand stage in which 20182 accused were granted bail. While we commend NALSA for the steps taken, we also direct that they continue to keep up the momentum and plug the gaps, if any, which they themselves have fairly identified and placed before the Court. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1793 Suhas Chakma v. Union of India & Ors. E-Prison Module / E-kiosks in Prisons 27. NALSA has also stated that E-Prison Module for effective monitoring of cases has been implemented and under the modified E-Prison Module data regarding s granting bail, the status of implementation of s granting bail and s of acquittal are uploaded. Similarly, NALSA has prepared a module called “Inmates Information Access to Relatives” - whereby the inmates and/or their relatives are able to access details relating to the prisoners. The prisoner and the nominated relatives can access the details through E-Kiosks installed inside the jails. Through these E-Kiosks, the prisoner/relatives can check the next hearing date, remission period, parole and furlough application status etc. 28. In an passed as a chamber judge (one of us), Viswanathan K.V. J. in Sanjit Saha vs. State of West Bengal, 2023 INSC 1085 made the following suggestion so that the data from prison is available on a click of a button to courts including this Court.