22540 of 2023. 104. He submitted that the Bank further addressed another letter to the Borrower requesting it to take immediate steps for cancellation of the Release Deed and to hand-over the title documents of the property to the Bank to enable it to initiate the refund of its money, however the same were to no avail. 105. When the Subsequent Transferee instituted the suit for seek a declaration of title to the Secured Asset in its favour, the Bank immediately took steps by entering appearance and filing an application under VII Rule 11 of the CPC inter-alia contending that the reliefs claimed is in violation of the decision of this Court in the Main Appeals. 106. He further submitted that the Bank in to recover the physical possession of the subject property filed an application under Section 14 of the SARFAESI Act before the District Magistrate, Thane. The said application came to be allowed on 02.02.2024 and possession was scheduled to be taken on 29.02.2024. Against this, the Subsequent Transferee filed an application in the suit for seeking ad-interim injunction and grant of status qua as regards the possession which was allowed, the Bank promptly challenged the same before the High Court. Whereas the Borrower challenged the said possession notice before the DRT which was rejected but in appeal status quo was granted by the DRAT. 107. He submitted that the as per the decision of this Court in the Main Appeals, the Borrower was duty bound to return the possession and title deeds of the secured asset to the Bank for the purpose of handing the same over to the petitioner, and as a natural consequence of the direction to issue the Sale Certificate the Borrower was required to get the Release Deed and the Assignment Agreement cancelled. However, the Borrower in league with the Subsequent Transferee has prevented the implementation of the aforesaid directions as per the of this Court in the Main Appeals and complicated the issue by taking recourse to untenable dilatory litigations against one and all. 1662 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 108. In light of the above, the Bank was compelled to prefer the present miscellaneous application before this Court for seeking directions for the implementation of the decision of this Court in the Main Appeals and inter-alia declare the Release Deed dated 28.08.2023 executed by the Bank in compliance of the High Court’s impugned and the Assignment Agreement dated 28.08.2023 executed by the Borrower in favour of the Subsequent Transferee as null and void and further direct the Borrower to return the original title documents of the subject property to the along with the details for initiating refund of its money paid towards redemption of mortgage, and to direct the District Magistrate Thane to immediately take possession of the secured asset and handover the same to the Bank. C. ISSUES FOR DETERMINATION 109. Having heard the learned counsel appearing for the parties and having gone through the materials on record, the following questions fall for our consideration: - I.