Thus, so far as title to the property is concerned, the plaintiff was able to establish that she was the absolute owner of the suit schedule properties. In the First Appeal filed by the legal heirs of the original plaintiffs, the plaint was permitted to be amended and added the prayer for recovery of the possession from the defendants came to be added. It is true that as regards the findings on title and ownership, the defendants filed cross-objections before the First Appellate Court and those were looked into and dismissed. However, as stated above notice was issued by this Court only to consider the issue of period of limitation. [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1899 Mallavva and Anr. v. Kalsammanavara Kalamma (Since Dead) by Legal Heirs & Ors. 10. In view of the aforesaid, we shall discuss into the position of law as regards the applicability of Article 58 or Article 65 of the Limitation Act in the present litigation. 11. We must first look into Sections 3(1) and 27 and also Articles 58, 65 and 113 of the Limitation Act respectively. 12. Section 3(1) of the said Act reads as follows: “3. Bar of Limitation.-(1) Subject to the provisions contained in sections 4 to 24 (inclusive), every suit instituted, appeal preferred, and application made after the prescribed period shall be dismissed, although limitation has not been set up as a defence.” 13. A mere reading of the said section would reveal that if any suit or appeal or application has been filed beyond the prescribed period of limitation mentioned in the Limitation Act, the same is liable to be dismissed even though the plea of limitation has not been taken as a defence. 14. Section 27 of the said Act reads as follows: “27. Extinguishment of right to property.-At the determination of the period hereby limited to any person for instituting a suit for possession of any property, his right to such property shall be extinguished.” 15. It means, as far as a suit for possession is concerned, the same should be filed before expiry of the period mentioned in the Limitation Act and if the same is filed beyond the period of limitation, the right of plaintiff over such property shall become extinguished. 16. Article 58 of the Limitation Act reads as follows: “Description of Period of Time from which suit limitation period begins to run To obtain Three years When the right to any other sue first accrues” declaration From a cursory look of the provision of the said Article, it is easily discernible that apart from the declaratory suits mentioned in Articles 56 and 57, any other declaratory suit should be filed within three years from the date when right to sue first accrues. 1900 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 17. Article 65 of the Limitation Act reads as follows: “Description of Period of Time from which suit Limitation period begins to run For possession Twelve years When the of immovable possession of property or any the defendant interest therein becomes based on title adverse to the plaintiff” From a plain reading of the said Article, it is made clear that a suit filed for recovery of possession based on title should be filed within a period of 12 years when possession of the defendant becomes adverse to the plaintiff concerned.