Instead the opinion of the Sessions Judge, Godhra, District Panchmahal within whose jurisdiction the offences had occurred and who was a member of the Jail Advisory Committee was highlighted by Sri S.V. Raju, learned ASG appearing for the State of Gujarat. Although this opinion is also a negative opinion, the same is not in accordance with sub-section (2) of Section 432 of the CrPC and, therefore, is of no consequence except when viewed from the prism of being an opinion of one of the members of the Jail Advisory Committee, Dahod Jail. 53. As we have held, in the first place, the first respondent State of Gujarat was not at all the appropriate Government, therefore, the proceedings of the Jail Advisory Committee of Dahod Jail, which had recommended remission is itself vitiated and further, there is no compliance of sub-section (2) of Section 432 of the CrPC in the instant case in as much as the said opinion was not considered by the appropriate Government. On that score also, the s of remission dated 10.08.2022 are vitiated. Sentence in default of fine: 54. Learned counsel Mrs. Shobha Gupta contended that respondent Nos.3 to 13 had not paid the fine and therefore, in the absence of payment of fine, the default sentence ought to have been undergone [2024] 1 S.C.R. 895 Bilkis Yakub Rasool v. Union of India & Others by the said respondents. This aspect of the matter has been lost sight of or ignored while granting the s of remission and therefore, the s of remission are vitiated on that score. 54.1. In response to the above arguments, learned senior counsel, Sri Sidharth Luthra, at the outset, submitted that although applications for payment of fine have been filed and are pending consideration before this Court, nevertheless respondent Nos. 3 to 13 have now on their own tendered the fine and the same has been accepted by the Special Court at Mumbai. 54.2. In this regard, following s were referred to at the bar: (a) In Shantilal vs. State of Madhya Pradesh, (2007) 11 SCC 243 (“Shantilal”), the contention was that the term of imprisonment in default of payment of fine is not a sentence. It is a penalty which a person incurs on account of non-payment of fine. This sentence must be undergone by the offender unless it is set-aside or remitted in part or in whole, either in appeal or in revision or in other appropriate judicial proceedings or otherwise. However, a term of imprisonment ed in default of payment of fine stands on a different footing. A person is required to undergo imprisonment for default in payment of fine either because he is unable to pay the amount of fine or refuses to pay such amount. He, therefore, can always avoid to undergo imprisonment in default of payment of fine by paying such amount. It is, therefore, not only the power, but the duty of the Court to keep in view the nature of offence, and circumstances under which it was committed, the position of the offender and other relevant considerations before ing the offender to suffer imprisonment in default of payment of fine.