9.2.1 In Synthetics and Chemicals (2J), it was categorically argued by the learned Advocate General appearing for the State of Uttar Pradesh that the reference to “sales tax” in the of this Court between the same parties (before seven-Judge Bench) was accidental and did not arise from the . This was because the levy of sales tax was not in question at any stage of the arguments nor was the question considered as it was not in issue. In fact, the question which arose for consideration in the earlier litigation was in regard to the validity of “vend fee and other fees” charged by the States. This Court held that vend fee or transport [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2085 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons fee and similar fees, unless supported by quid pro quo, interfered with the control exercised by the Central Government under IDRA and the various s made thereunder with respect to prices, licences, permits, distribution, transport, disposal, acquisition, possession, use, consumption, etc., of articles related to a controlled industry, “industrial alcohol” being one of them. The casual reference to sales tax in the concluding portion of the was accidental and per incuriam was the submission. 9.2.2 While considering the said plea, this Court observed that, the only question which had to be determined between the same parties in Synthetics and Chemicals (7J) was, “whether “intoxicating liquors” in Entry 8 - List II was confined to potable liquor or includes all liquors.” Answering this question, this Court categorically held that “intoxicating liquors” within the meaning of Entry 8 - List II was confined to “potable liquor” and did not include “industrial liquor”. 9.2.3 Therefore, the only question that was considered by the seven-Judge Bench of this Court was whether the State could levy “excise duty” or “vend fee” or “transport fee” and the like by recourse to Entry 51 or 8 - List II in respect of “industrial alcohol”. This Court by a detailed discussion in the seven-Judge Bench decision had observed that the impugned statutory provisions purportedly levying fees or enforcing restrictions in respect of “industrial alcohol” were impermissible in view of the control assumed by the Central Government in exercise of its power under Section 18G of the IDRA in respect of a declared industry falling under Entry 52 - List I, read with Entry 33 - List III. 9.2.4 In this decision, it was observed that the aforesaid decision of this Court was not an authority for the proposition canvassed by the assessee in challenging the provision. This Court could not have intended to say that the Price Control s made by the Central Government under the IDRA imposed a fetter on the legislative power of the State under Entry 54 - List II 2086 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports to levy taxes on the sale or purchase of goods. The reference to sales tax in paragraph 86 of that was merely accidental or per incuriam and therefore, had no effect.