5 7. Rights of citizenship of certain migrants to Pakistan.— Notwithstanding anything in articles 5 and 6, a person who has after the first day of March, 1947, migrated from the territory of India to the territory now included in Pakistan shall not be deemed to be a citizen of India: Provided that nothing in this article shall apply to a person who, after having so migrated to the territory now included in Pakistan, has returned to the territory of India under a permit for resettlement or permanent return issued by or under the authority of any law and every such person shall for the purposes of clause (b) of article 6 be deemed to have migrated to the territory of India after the nineteenth day of July, 1948. 6 11. Parliament to regulate the right of citizenship by law.— Nothing in the foregoing provisions of this Part shall derogate from the power of Parliament to make any provision with respect to the acquisition and termination of citizenship and all other matters relating to citizenship. 7 Paragraph 132 of the of Justice Surya Kant. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1151 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 12. A close reading of both the aforesaid Articles would indicate that unlike Section 6A(3) of the Citizenship Act which entrusts the State with the duty of detecting immigrants and conferring citizenship on them, Article 6 prescribes for a registration system that places the onus of individually undertaking such registration on the person who wishes to avail citizenship. Secondly, unlike Section 6A(3) of the Citizenship Act which has no prescribed end-date for the completion of registration, Article 6 prescribes that an application for registration has to be made before the date of commencement of the Constitution. As discussed by me in detail in the later parts of this , these two crucial differences are the underlying reasons for shrouding Section 6A of the Citizenship Act with a cloak of unconstitutionality. 13. Justice Surya Kant has further dealt with the challenge raised by the petitioners that Section 6A of the Citizenship Act is violative of Article 148 of the Constitution. While rejecting the preliminary objection raised by the respondents that the petitioners cannot seek equality in regard to a restriction as opposed to a benefit,9 Justice Surya Kant, after a detailed consideration of the arguments and precedents, has rejected the contention of the petitioners and has held that Section 6A does not violate Article 14. He has held that Section 6A is a result of a political settlement between the Government and the people of Assam, namely the Assam Accord, and thus is not violative of Article 14 for treating Assam differently from the rest of the States.10 14. Further, on the question of Section 6A of the Act being ‘manifestly arbitrary’ and thus violative of Article 14, Justice Surya Kant has held that neither the cut-off dates11 prescribed in the scheme of Section 6A of the Citizenship Act nor the criteria and the procedure12 provided for conferment of citizenship under the said provision are devoid of reason or are palpably arbitrary.