He also relied upon another decision of this Court in the case of State of Bombay v. R.M.D. Chamarbaugwala & Anr..31 Further, he submitted that if “or” is not read as “and”, it would be discriminatory since ITC would be available on a mall or warehouse, but under clause (c), it would not be available on works contracts relating to the construction of a mall or warehouse. In this regard, he stated that Clauses (c) and (d) of Section 17(5) deal with the same subject matter, i.e., immovable property and therefore they cannot be treated unequally. Furthermore, he submitted that the explanation to Section 17(5) applies to Chapters V and VI and thus has to apply to clause (d). However, he accepted that the expression “plant and machinery” occurs ten times in Chapter V and Chapter VI and the expression “plant or machinery” occurs only once in Section 17(5)(d). He invited our attention to Section 16(3) of the CGST Act, which bars the claim of depreciation on ‘plant and machinery’ if the assessees choose to avail of ITC. Thus, ITC is allowable only when depreciation is not claimed. He submitted that if the argument of the assessees is accepted, they would be entitled to take benefit of both ITC and depreciation simultaneously. In a similar 29 [2018] 11 SCR 765 : (2019) 3 SCC 39 30 [2020] 3 SCR 1 : (2020) 8 SCC 129 31 [1957] 1 SCR 874 : (1957) SCC OnLine SC 12 814 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports vein, he submitted that if the submission is accepted, even Sections 18(6) and 29(5) will not apply to plant or machinery falling under Section 17(5)(d). b. For identifying what would constitute plant and machinery/plant or machinery, it is not necessary to refer to decisions under the Income Tax Act as the same have no relevance. There is no concept of ITC in the Income Tax Act. The scheme of the Act is completely different. He further submitted that if the assessee’s submission that a shopping mall or warehouse is treated as a plant is accepted, it would amount to hostile discrimination. c. Tax on goods cannot be extended to immovable property. However, taxation on services can be raised even on using immovable properties for rendition of services. He submitted that when it comes to sales tax or VAT on goods, a consistent view taken by this Court is that the sale would include the sale of goods and not the sale of immovables. He submitted that malls, hotels, office buildings, etc., are immovable properties; therefore, GST cannot be levied. He relied upon the earlier decisions of this Court arising out of the Central Excise Act, 1944. According to him, those plants and machinery which are deeply rooted in the earth and cannot be relocated without sufficient damage are immovable goods. However, he accepted that renting an immovable property amounts to a supply of service, which is taxable under the CGST Act. d. While dealing with the case of a shopping mall, he submitted that since a shopping mall is an immovable property, it is excluded from the GST.