It is also made from the raw materials to the clear that the IDRA which has consumption of ‘intoxicating been enacted by the Parliament liquor’; by virtue of Entry 52 – List I has taken control of “Fermentation Industries” as a scheduled industry. Such “Fermentation Industries” would exclude “intoxicating liquors”. 2178 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports b. Parliament cannot occupy Parliament can occupy the the field of the entire field of the entire industry by industry merely by issuing merely issuing a declaration a declaration under Entry under Entry 52 – List I and 52 of List I. The State the State Legislature’s Legislature’s competence competence under Entry 24 under Entry 24 of List II is – List II is denuded to the denuded only to the extent field of the entire industry of the field covered by the and specifically to the extent law of Parliament under of the field covered by the Entry 52 of List I; law of Parliament under Entry 52 – List I. c. Parliament does not have I agree. the legislative competence to enact a law taking control of the industry of intoxicating liquor covered by Entry 8 of List II in exercise of the power under Article 246 read with Entry 52 of List I; d. The s of the The context of the controversy Bombay High Court in must be borne in mind in the FN Balsara v. State of said cases. The aforesaid Bombay (supra), this decisions in substance Court in FN Balsara limited the meaning of the (supra) and Southern expression “intoxicating Pharmaceuticals (supra) liquors” to its popular meaning did not limit the meaning of i.e. “alcoholic beverages” the expression ‘intoxicating that produce intoxication. liquor’ to its popular Therefore, in the context of meaning, that is, alcoholic prohibition of “intoxicating beverages that produce liquor” as a beverage, intoxication. All the three there could not have been s interpreted the prohibition of production of expression to cover alcohol alcohol used for medicinal that could be noxiously and toilet preparation as well used to the detriment of as “industrial alcohol” or non- health; potable alcohol. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2179 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons e. The expression ‘intoxicating The expression “intoxicating liquor’ in Entry 8 has not liquor” in Entry 8 has acquired acquired a legislative a legislative and judicial meaning on an application meaning over the decades as of the test laid down in per the discussion above. Ganon Dunkerley (supra); f. The study of the evolution The members of the of the legislative entries Constituent Assembly were on alcohol indicates that clear in what they envisaged the use of the expressions within the scope and ambit of “intoxicating liquor” and the expression “intoxicating “alcoholic liquor for human liquors” in Entry 8 – List II. consumption” in the Seventh This is also evident from Schedule was a matter well- Item 26 of the First Schedule thought of. It also indicates of the IDRA.