Parliament’s authority to regulate and control mineral development would be seriously impaired and affected if it is held that the matter relating to imposition of tax on minerals is also vested in the State. The vires of Sections 9 and 9-A of the 1957 Act has not been questioned. In fact, they have been held to be intra vires in State of M.P. v. Mahalaxmi Fabric Mills Ltd. [1995 Supp (1) SCC 642] , Saurashtra Cement and Chemical Industries Ltd. v. Union of India [(2001) 1 SCC 91] and South Eastern Coalfields Ltd. [(2003) 8 SCC 648 : (2003) 7 Supreme 539] Unless power to levy compulsory impost is held to be ultra vires the Constitution, it cannot be held that Parliament has encroached upon the States’ power of taxation.” (underlining by me) The aforesaid observations are significant in light of the history of legislation as regards regulation of mines and development of minerals and the logical corollary would be that in the field of levy of tax, fee or other charges, the Parliament by virtue of Section 9 read with Section 25 of the MMDR Act, 1957 has covered the field of legislation which act as a limitation on the State’s power under Entry 23 - List II of the Constitution. Therefore, Sinha, J. rightly observed that once it is held that the entire field of mines and minerals is covered by the MMDR [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1811 Mineral Area Development Authority & Anr. v. M/s Steel Authority of India & Anr. Etc. Act, 1957 the impugned levy by way of cess on coal-bearing land is nothing but an imposition of tax on exercise of mineral rights which is barred having regard to the field being covered by the provisions of the MMDR Act, 1957. 24. What is of significance is that in India Cement, the seven-judge Bench of this Court considered the s of the Patna High Court in Laddu Mal and that of the Mysore High Court in Laxminarayana Mining Co. and approved the same. However, there was a reference made to four other s of the High Courts of Punjab and Haryana, Gujarat, Orissa and Rajasthan. The criticism by the majority in Kesoram is that there was no discussion on those s in India Cement. The reasons for there being no necessity for discussion of the said s are not far to see. The s of the Patna and Mysore High Courts considered at length the concept of royalty in the context of the constitutional Entries in Lists I and II, as discussed above and in light of the declaration made in Section 2 and the scheme of the MMDR Act, 1957. It was observed by the Patna and Mysore High Courts that having regard to the constitutional scheme vis-à-vis the legislative fields, in the context of making laws on mineral rights and mineral development and Section 2 of the MMDR Act, 1957 payment of royalty on a mining lease being covered under the Parliamentary Act, i.e.