The expression ‘complaint’ is defined in Section 2(1)(7)(c) to mean any allegation made in writing by a complainant relating to certain enumerated subjects. A complainant is defined 2(1)(b) to mean a consumer, among other entities. Therefore, to file a complaint, one must be a complainant and for one to be a complainant, he must be a consumer. If a person fails to come within the definition of a consumer, he cannot be a complainant5 and therefore, such person cannot file a complaint under the Act. 3 The logic can be identically extended to Section 2(7)(ii) 4 The consideration may have been paid or partly paid or agreed to be paid in future. 5 Complainant is defined under Section 2 (1) (b) of the Act. A complainant means – (i) a consumer; or (ii) any voluntary consumer association registered under the Companies Act,1956 or under any other law for the time being in force; or (iii) the Central Government or any State Government, who or which makes a complaint. 224 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 18. In the facts of the instant case, the OP had raised a plea in its version that the complainant does not satisfy the definition of consumer since the service was obtained for a commercial purpose. Sri Shailesh Madiyal, learned Senior Advocate for the OP has argued vehemently that the complainant has not pleaded let alone prove that the services availed by it was for securing the livelihood of the complainant by means of self-employment. According to Sri Shailesh Madiyal, the onus to prove that services were availed for earning livelihood rests on the complainant. In support of his submission, he has relied on Laxmi Engineering Works – (1995) 3 SCC 583; Leelavathi Kirtilal Medical Trust v. Unique Shanti Developers – (2020) 2 SCC 265; Cheema Engineering Services (1997) 1 SCC 131 and; Paramount Digital Lab (2018) 14 SCC 81. 19. Before we deal with the contention of Sri Shailesh Madiyal, it would be necessary to set out the manner in which consumer forums must decide technical pleas raised by service providers to the effect that the services obtained/goods bought was for a commercial purpose and, therefore, the complaint filed on behalf of such persons are not maintainable. The crucial step in deciding such pleas would turn on the manner in which the issues are framed. Unless the burden of proof is properly cast on the relevant party, the consumer forum would not be in a position to arrive at proper decision. Therefore, we proceed to provide some guidance on how the issues must be framed and the manner in which the evidence must be appreciated. 20. As we have shown above, the definition of consumer has three parts. The significance of deconstructing the definition into three parts was for the purpose of explaining on whom lies the onus to prove each of the different parts. There can hardly be any dispute that the onus of proving the first part i.e. that the person had bought goods/availed services for a consideration, rests on the complainant himself.