At the same time, it might sometimes be desirable in the interest of justice to retain some open texture in statutes, to cover future eventualities that the legislature might not have anticipated but intended to address based on the overarching purpose of the law. In that sense, the sliding scale of vagueness in law determines whether the law is just and inclusive, or unjust and capricious. 252. To instantiate, consider Section 5 of the Limitation Act, 1963, which allows the condonation of delay if ‘sufficient cause’ has been delineated by such applicant. In this context, instead of prescribing a mathematically precise formula in regards to what is a sufficient cause, it was considered necessary to use words that provide a broad spectrum and enable a fact-based analysis for each case. Since lawmakers could not possibly envisage all potential situations that may arise in the future at the time of legislating, it was therefore considered prudent to leave it to the facts and circumstances of each individual case. 253. Apart from enabling individualized application of the broad legal directive, a certain degree of vagueness is also necessary to address evolving societal needs. An excellent example of this is reflected in the jurisprudence of Article 21. In this scenario, if the framers of the Constitution had sought to include a laundry list encompassing a myriad of conditions to which Article 21 would be applicable, the ramifications would have been substantial. Any interpretation of the right to privacy would have required a constitutional amendment. Therefore, it may often be beneficial to prescribe a broad standard and allow enough flexibility to address changing needs of the society. Judicial discretion in that sense is often wedded unto the law and cannot be eliminated by invoking excessive formalism. 1104 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 254. This takes us to the question that if vagueness is inherent in law and may even be desirable on some level, then what ought to be the test and standard for striking down a law on grounds of being vague. In this regard, we will now analyze the test and standard for vagueness, which would make a statute or legislation liable to be struck down on that basis. Test for void-for-vagueness 255. Vagueness needs to be viewed from the perspective of: (a) the authorities applying the impugned law; and (b) the persons being regulated by the impugned law, as was held in Shreya Singhal v Union of India,174 where this Court dealt with the constitutionality of Section 66A of the Information Technology Act, 2000. This Court, after referring to terms in Section 66A, such as ‘grossly offensive’ or ‘menacing’, observed the same to be very vague and held that neither the prospective offender under Section 66A nor the authorities who are to apply Section 66A would have any manageable standard to charge a person for an offence under Section 66A. It was observed as follows: "85. […] Quite obviously, a prospective offender of Section 66-A and the authorities who are to enforce Section 66-A have absolutely no manageable standard by which to book a person for an offence under Section 66-A […].” [Emphasis supplied] 256.