because it (i) permits donations by loss making companies; (ii) removes the control of shareholders over the decisions of the Board; (ili) permits unlimited contribution by corporates and thereby abrogates democratic principles; The provision permitting non-disclosure of funding by companies is violative of the shareholders’ rights under: |. Article 25 which includes the right of the shareholder to know how the resources generated from their property are utilized. Once a shareholder comes to know that a company is financing a political party and their conscience does not permit it, as an exercise of the right to conscience, the shareholder should be entitled to sell those shares; and li. If the shareholder feels that the political contributions are not a sound business decision, they must be entitled to exit the business by selling the shares. The information that would enable the shareholder to make such a decision is not disclosed, thus, infringing upon their right under Article 19(1)(g). 51 [20132 S0CR ]88 6 : (2020) 10 SCC 459 52 [2022 S3CR ]42 2 : 2023 SCC OnLine SC 162 53 Relied on Shayara Bano v. Union of India, [2091 S7CR ]79 7 : (2017) 9 SCC 1 [2024] 2 S.C.R. 472 Digital Supreme Court Reports 33. Mr Nizam Pasha, learned counsel made the following submissions: a. The Electoral Bond Scheme and the amendments are arbitrary as they permit Indian registered companies to purchase electoral bonds without considering their ownership and control. This goes against foreign investment laws in India, treating companies owned or controlled by non-resident Indian citizens as ‘foreign owned or controlled companies,’ without rational justification; The Electoral Bond Scheme is arbitrary due to its discriminatory and non-transparent nature. It contradicts existing laws requiring transparency and verification of the beneficial ownership and source of funds; and The amendments to Section 29C of the RPA and Section 182 of the Companies Act serve no purpose other than perpetuating illegal ends, as they exempt companies’ purchase of electoral bonds from public disclosure. This fails to achieve the scheme’s stated objective of curbing cash donations. 34. Mr Vijay Hansaria, learned senior counsel made the following submissions: a. The objects and reasons of the Election and Other Related Laws (Amendment) Act 2003 which amended the Companies Act 1956, IT Act 1961, and the RPA indicates that the amendments were made to incentivize contributions through banking channels. Thus, the amendments to Section 13A of the Income Tax Act and Section 29C of the RPA are contrary to the object of inserting Section 138A and Section 80GGB and Section 80GGC of the Income Tax Act; Since 1959, when companies were permitted to contribute to political parties, all companies were required to mandatorily disclose the total contributions made and the name of party to which they have contributed. Further, ceiling limits for total contribution by companies were prescribed. The Finance Act 2017 does away with these transparency requirements; and International perspectives on political funding regulations, including those from the United States, the United Kingdom, Switzerland and Singapore, emphasize the importance of transparency, disclosure, and reporting in political contributions.