44. In light of the above analysis, the evidence produced by both, the State and the landowners, and on employing the principle of guesstimation, it stands conclusively surmised that the landowners herein are entitled to an enhancement in the compensation awarded. Accordingly, we partly allow these present appeals and revise the rate of compensation to INR 403 per sq. yd. for the entire acquired land except such part of it which was subject matter of the decision in Bir Singh (supra). E.2. Maintainability of the Miscellaneous Applications 45. The miscellaneous applications in the present batch of cases before us seek parity with the rate of compensation awarded in Bir Singh (supra). Learned Senior Counsel for NOIDA is not wrong in contending that this would effectively amount to recall of the previous s and part acceptance of the appeals by way of Review based on a subsequent change of law. 10 [2008] 11 SCR 927 : (2008) 14 SCC 745, para 14 11 (2015) 15 SCC 220, para 22-25 [2024] 7 S.C.R. 463 New Okhla Industrial Development Authority v. Harnand Singh (Deceased) through LRs & Ors. 46. Although, as laid down in State (NCT of Delhi) v. K.L. Rathi Steels Ltd.,12 Miscellaneous Applications based on change of law are typically not maintainable, except in certain exceptional circumstances, and in the interests of justice. These circumstances pertain to a position where the law is in a continuous state of flux and/or where not allowing the applications would have a significant detrimental effect and result in the miscarriage of justice. It seems to us that the current situation exemplifies such a scenario. 47. In our considered opinion, it would indeed be unfair to single out a few individual landowners and deny them the benefit of just compensation, owing to factors and processes outside their control. Comparing the impact of not allowing these miscellaneous applications solely on grounds of maintainability vis-à-vis allowing them marginally higher compensation in the larger interest of justice—we are persuaded to accede to the landowners’ prayers. Disallowing these applications would in a way be against the spirit of Article 14 of our Constitution and will defy the right to treat those placed equally in an equal manner. 48. Consequently, invoking our powers under Article 142 of the Constitution with a view to do complete justice between the parties, we deem it fit to enhance compensation notwithstanding the dismissal of earlier Review and Curative Petitions. Moreover, it is clarified that since our analysis above is agnostic to the decision in Bir Singh (supra), we are, therefore, not applying a subsequent change of law, but instead only correcting a judicial error and restoring uniformity in a case involving peculiar circumstances. 49. Consequently, the landowners in these miscellaneous applications are also held entitled to the new revised rate of INR 403 per sq. yd. for their acquired land. E.3 Applicability of Section 28A of the 1894 Act 50. Section 28A of the 1894 Act serves as a legislative safeguard against discrimination in the grant of compensation.