In addition to these functionaries, three more judicial functionaries would be eligible for official vehicles, namely, Director of the Judicial Academy/Judicial Training Institute, Principal Judge of the Family Courts and Secretary of the District Legal Services Authority. The High Courts were permitted to prune down the list depending upon the financial capacity of the State; (e) The quantum of petrol/diesel for official cars would be raised to the actual consumption for official purposes as certified by the concerned official and supported by a log book, which would be maintained. The judicial officers using official cars may be permitted to use them for private purposes to the extent of 300 kms per month; (f) The judicial officers shall be permitted to exhibit a sticker at their option on the lower left side of the windscreen with inscription ‘Judge’ printed in moderately sized letters; and (g) Soft loan facilities to the extent of Rs ten lakhs at nominal interest for the purchase of car shall be extended to the judicial officers. 34. The report of the SNJPC in regard to the payment of conveyance/ transport allowance is accepted. All concerned authorities shall take steps for the purpose of implementing the recommendations. 6. Dearness Allowance 35. By its dated 19 May 2023, this Court has accepted the recommendation of the SNJPC on dearness allowance. [2024] 1 S.C.R. 347 All India Judges Association v. Union of India & Ors 7. Earned Leave Encashment 36. The SNJPC has recommended that the judicial officers be entitled to earned leave encashment in the following manner: “9. SUMMARY OF RECOMMENDATIONS 1. No enhancement in the maximum limit of 300 days leave encashment at the time of retirement. 2. A judicial officer shall be entitled to encash : (a) 10 days earned leave while availing LTC subject to maximum 60 days – 10 at a time upto six occasions during the entire service. (b) 30 days in a block of two years. (c) S.No. (a) and (b) shall be in addition to the right of the Judicial Officers to encashupto 300 days EL at the time of retirement. 3. In case of officers who have retired and while granting leave encashment at the time of retirement, the leave encashment availed during service stand adjusted shall be paid the amount of the so adjusted earned leave, at the time of retirement as explained in the example above, within a period of three months from the date of acceptance of the report.” 37. The report submitted by the SNJPC in regard to the earned leave encashment is accepted. 8. Electricity and Water Charges 38. The SNJPC has made the following recommendations: “1. No change in the percentage of reimbursement. The 50% of reimbursement formula recommended by FNJPC and reiterated by the JPC shall continue. 2. The ceiling in terms of units of electricity and the quantity of water consumed shall be as follows: Designation Electricity Units Water Quantity District Judges 8000 units per annum 420 Kls per annum Civil Judges 6000 units per annum 336 Kls per annum 348 [2024] 1 S.C.R.