The claim for perfect partition has been refused by the revenue authorities; c. The bar to the claim or the refusal of the revenue authorities is on the ground that the result of the partition would be to form a separate estate liable for an annual amount of revenue less than five rupees. 11. In the instant case, the claim for imperfect partition by the plaintiff was refused by the revenue authorities on 12.07.2004 on the ground of non-possession. Neither the claim was for perfect partition, nor the grounds for refusal were as mentioned in Sections 154(1) and 154(2) respectively of the Regulation, 1886. 12. In support of his aforesaid submissions, he relied on the rendered by the Single Judge of the High Court in Moimunnessa v. Faizur Rahman & Ors. reported in (1987) 2 GLR 28 paras 4, 5 and 6 which unequivocally held that the partition of revenue-paying estates must be conducted by the Revenue Authorities under Section 54 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (hereinafter referred to as “CPC”). 13. The learned counsel also placed reliance on Section 4 of the CPC which provides that in the absence of any specific provision to the contrary, nothing in this Code shall be deemed to limit or otherwise affect any special or local law now in force or any special jurisdiction or power conferred, or any special form of procedure prescribed, by or under any law for the time being in force. 14. He submitted that Section 54 of the CPC mandates that the partition of an undivided estate assessed to revenue shall be conducted by the Collector or a designated revenue officer. The appellant in the present case had bypassed the established procedures by directly approaching the civil court instead of appealing the Additional District Commissioner’s before the proper forum, i.e., the Assam Board of Revenue. This procedural violation is in direct conflict with the law already established in Moimunnessa (supra). 15. He submitted that instead of appealing to the Assam Board of Revenue or the Revenue Tribunal, the appellant filed yet another title suit knowing fully well that no effective decree of partition could have been passed because no proper identification of the land could be established by the appellant. [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1925 Abdul Rejak Laskar v. Mafizur Rahman & Ors. 16. He submitted that the proper authority which can demarcate any land is the Revenue Authorities and not the civil court. 17. According to the learned counsel the and decree dated 16.07.2011 passed by the Munsif No.2, Nagaon in Title Suit No. 83/2004 had rightly returned a finding upon examination of evidence that actual possession is a precondition to succeed in a claim for a partition and that the refusal by the revenue authority was for imperfect partition on the ground of non-possession and not for a claim of perfect partition or for the grounds mentioned in Section 154(1)(e) of the Regulation, 1886. Hence, there was no question of lifting the bar on the jurisdiction of civil courts.