71. Mr. Guru Krishna Kumar, Ld. Senior Counsel, made extensive reference to the history of the AMU to argue that it was never established as a minority institution but as an institution for general and secular education. It was argued that the British Government was consistently opposed to both, the possibility of a denominational character of the university and the proposed power of the university to affiliate colleges. It was argued that the word “Muslim” in the university’s name was accepted more out of deference to local sentiment than as an indication of minority character. He also drew the Court’s attention to the array of powers exercised both by the Governor-General-in-Council as Lord Rector and the Visiting Board over the University. 72. Mr. Guru Krishna Kumar argued that the fact that the Muslim community approached the then Government for establishing a university is insignificant, as it was not necessary. It was argued that the minority community had the right to establish a college as happened thereafter with the creation of the Jamia Milia Islamia without government interference. 73. It was argued that the muslim community approached the Government since they wanted governmental recognition of their degrees which was possible only if university was established by the Government. He gave examples of certain colleges to show how such colleges were given legal recognition as Universities through Acts of Legislature. By contrast the MAO college was instead dissolved by the 1920 Act and a new entity created in its place. 74. Further, it was argued that the inclusion of the AMU as a specific entry in List I of the Constitution is a clear indication of its All-India character. Even if the university once had the trappings of a minority institution, such inclusion crystallises the secular nature of the university and erases all vestiges of control by one specific community. Reference in this regard is made to M. Siddiq (Ram Janambhumi Temple Reference-5J) v. Mahant Suresh Das, (2020) 1 SCC 1. 1942 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 75. It was urged that the 1981 amendment indirectly attempted to set aside the judgement in Azeez Basha [supra] without removing the basis of the judgement, which is impermissible. He adds that there cannot be a legislative declaration of fact through an amending Act which operates to set aside a finding of fact by the Supreme Court and that the 1981 Amendment was bad on this count. He relied on Indra Sawhney v. Union of India & Anr., (2000) 1 SCC 168 and Mullaperiyar Environmental Protection Forum v. Union Of India & Ors, (2006) 3 SCC 643. 76. Mr. Vinay Navare, Ld. Senior Counsel, submitted that the judgement in Azeez Basha [supra] is not under challenge, only the principle laid down therein. The findings arrived at in the said cannot be affected by the decision of the present Constitution Bench and only the correctness of the legal principle is in question as a reference does not decide the merits of a dispute inter se parties but only the interpretation of a law.