Firstly, the High Court, with regard to the entries made in favour of Chandrika and others, has observed as follows: “It has been brought to our notice by the learned Standing Counsel, on the basis of enquiry, which has been held by the respondents, that surprisingly the name of Chandrika has been found to be recorded in khatas of three villages to the extent of area 9.64 hectares. The entry of Chandrika in respect of khatas of three villages is not to be confined to this extent only, but the authorities are obliged to make further enquiry in respect of such entries prevailing in Sadar Tehsil in district Lucknow. It is to be noted that not only Chandrika whose name has been recorded in clandestine manner, but there may be other persons, whose names have also been recorded in the like manner and the poor farmers do not come to know that some name has been entered on the eve of acquisition and that too without any knowledge to them. If the name of any person has to be recorded in the khata, then it is incumbent upon the Tehsildar to give notice and hear the recorded tenure holder personally and thereafter make any change in the khata of the recorded tenure holder. 590 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports The novel method adopted in entering the name of Chandrika in so many khatas itself throws doubt upon the manner in which, the entry in the name of Chandrika has been made. This is a serious matter and it requires thorough enquiry. The Secretary, Board of Revenue himself or his nominee was directed to conduct an enquiry into the matter. The Secretary, Board of Revenue or his nominee does not mean that the Secretary, Board of Revenue will not supervise the enquiry personally. It is incumbent upon the Secretary, Board of Revenue to supervise the enquiry personally and call the officers and also to scrutinize the facts and the evidence ‘collected by the officers and thereafter take action in accordance with law.” [Emphasis applied] 14. Thereafter, the High Court proceeded on the premise that the effect of no notice having been served on the respondents entails denial of the very valuable right of objections available to them. That limited opportunity is akin to Section 5A of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894, and non-observance thereto, vitiates the acquisition process qua plot No. 673 and the same cannot sustain. 15. We have heard learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant as well as learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondents and carefully perused the material placed on record. 16. The 1965 Act mandates issuance of a pre-acquisition notice to such individuals whose land/property falls within the purview of the proposed Scheme. On a liberal reading to such provision, the appellant, at best, could have claimed deemed or substantial compliance of audi alteram partem rule provided that Khasra No. 673 was expressly notified in the public notice dated 17.07.2004.