the impact upon non-target organisms and beneficial organisms could be seriously detrimental to agrarian ecology – The proposed conditions for approval are neither adequate nor feasible to limit these consequences – GEAC failed to take into consideration the precautionary principles while approving the environmental release of the transgenic mustard DMH-11 hybrid. [Para 47.6] 3.5. The evolution of the right to a safe and healthy environment and the concomitant duty of the State to uphold public trust and abide by inter-generational equity and the precautionary principle in environmental regulation is the bedrock of environmental constitutionalism – The environmental rights regime is a product of decades of environmental litigation by civil society, social movements, affected communities and the general citizenry – In that sense, environmental constitutionalism is a facet of transformative constitutionalism touching upon the socio-economic lives of citizens – In other words, the affected communities must have a substantive role in environmental governance. [Para 48.7] 3.6. The aspiration of transformative environmental governance cannot be realised merely through an effective bureaucracy and sound technical expertise – Environmental democracy and environmental rights are two sides of the same coin – Environmental decision-making in a rapidly changing climate requires healthy contestation of alternative worldviews, interests and rights – Only through such contestation can a fine and sustainable balance between development and the environment be arrived at – Open and transparent deliberation on expert knowledge increases accountability and acts as a safeguard against conflict of interest but not a closed door decision making process. [Paras 48.8 and 48.9] Held [per Sanjay Karol, J. ]: 1. The power of the GEAC, to grant approvals, necessarily carries with it the power to regulate the manner, in which the approvals are so granted – The mere absence of a specific statement in the 1989 Rules allowing assistance of expert committees, would not preclude the GEAC from doing so, in furtherance of its main objective – The decision of the GEAC cannot be said to be vitiated by delegation – GEAC had constituted a sub-committee and expert committee respectively, in its 126th and 146th meeting, with 1854 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports a specific purpose on each occasion – This cannot be said to be delegating its core function – The present factual circumstance is not a case, where the approval process itself has been delegated to the sub-committee/expert committee – The conditional approval of DMH-11 granted by the GEAC, is upheld as being independent, reasoned and in consonance with the rules. [Paras 25(a) 23, 25(a) 21, 25(a) 14, 25(a) 17, 25(b) 5]. 2. Even if the TEC and parliamentary standing committees have found certain issues with the procedures governing GM crops, that cannot automatically lead to the conclusion that gaps in the impugned procedures result in a violation of Part III of the Constitution of India and must be invalidated or that the impugned action be stalled. [Para 29.5] 3. Whether or not the State allows or disallows the scientific experimentation of a particular kind of crop, particularly when the Central Government is the primary authority entrusted with such function, is a decision squarely within their domain and the role of the Courts therein is circumscribed to the violation of fundamental rights; manifest arbitrariness; conflict with any other law and/or other grounds of similar nature.