As discussed in Part A of this judgement, the five-judge bench referred the correctness of the decision in Sanjeev Coke to a larger bench of seven judges. One of the apprehensions of this Court in this reference was that this Court in Sanjeev Coke, followed the observations of the minority judgement in Ranganatha Reddy, despite the majority expressly distancing itself from such observations. The appellants have also advanced similar contentions. They argue that the decision in Sanjeev Coke is not good in law as the judgement follows a minority view which was ‘disagreed’ with by the majority, and the same error was repeated by subsequent decisions that have followed Sanjeev Coke. Therefore, we first explore whether the decision in Sanjeev Coke can be faulted on the ground of judicial discipline. 85. The judgement at the heart of this controversy before us is Ranganatha Reddy rendered by a bench of seven judges of this Court. The issue before this Court related to the constitutional validity of the Karnataka Contract Carriages (Acquisition) Ordinance, 1976, followed by the Karnataka Contract Carriages (Acquisition) Act, 1976. The legislation provided for the nationalisation of contract carriages in the state. One opinion was authored by Justice NL Untwalia for the majority, speaking for himself, Chief Justice MH Beg, Justice YV Chandrachud and Justice PS Kailasam. Justice Krishna Iyer, speaking for himself, Justice Jaswant Singh and Justice PN Bhagwati, authored a separate but concurring opinion on behalf of a minority of the judges. 86. In Ranganatha Reddy, the issue arose before this Court in an appeal from the judgement of the Karnataka High Court which struck down the legislation and declared it to be unconstitutional. Justice Untwalia, speaking for the majority, briefly delineated the findings of the High Court in the following terms: “4. We now proceed to state the findings of the High Court on the various points argued before it not in the as finally recorded in para 98 of its at p. 1530 but in the the points were urged before us by Mr Lal Narayan Sinha, learned Counsel for the appellants. They are as follows: [2024] 11 S.C.R. 105 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. “(1) The acquisition is not for a public purpose. (2) The compensation or the amount provided for or the principles laid down in the Act for payment in lieu of the various vehicles, permits and other assets is wholly illusory and arbitrary.” For the two reasons aforesaid, the Act is violative of Article 31(2) of the Constitution and is a fraud on it. It is, therefore, null and void. (3) The acquisition of contract carriages with inter-State permits and other assets pertaining to such operators is ultra vires the legislative power and the competence of the State Legislature. (4) Article 31-C does not bar the challenge to the Act as being violative of Article 31(2) of the Constitution as there is no reasonable and substantial nexus between the purpose of the acquisitions and securing the principles specified in clauses (b) and (c) of Article 39.” (emphasis supplied) 87.