It has been held that a husband has no right, and it has to then be necessarily concluded that a father too, 5 2024 SCC OnLine SC 609 6 2024 SCC OnLine SC 1049 [2024] 8 S.C.R. 747 Mulakala Malleshwara Rao & Anr. v. State of Telangana & Anr. has no right when the daughter is alive, well, and entirely capable of making decisions such as pursuing the cause of the recovery of her ‘stridhan’. 8. We also notice Section 14 of the Hindu Succession Act, 1956 which talks about a Hindu female being the absolute owner of property. It reads: “14. Property of a female Hindu to be her absolute property.—(1) Any property possessed by a female Hindu, whether acquired before or after the commencement of this Act, shall be held by her as full owner thereof and not as a limited owner. Explanation.—In this sub-section, “property” includes both movable and immovable property acquired by a female Hindu by inheritance or devise, or at a partition, or in lieu of maintenance or arrears of maintenance, or by gift from any person, whether a relative or not, before, at or after her marriage, or by her own skill or exertion, or by purchase or by prescription, or in any other manner whatsoever, and also any such property held by her as stridhana immediately before the commencement of this Act. …” (Emphasis Supplied) 9. It is undisputed that action was initiated for securing possession of the articles and ornaments after a passage of more than 20 years since the date of marriage and five years after the settlement of all marital issues at the time of divorce and that too, not by the former wife, i.e., the complainant’s daughter, but by the complainant himself. This coupled with the fact that there is no authorization on the part of the complainant’s daughter in his favour to initiate proceedings for recovery of ‘stridhan’ exclusively belonging to her, beckons the question on the basis of which the complainant has initiated the present proceedings. 10. We find that the law provides for a situation where a woman may, in law, grant a person of her choosing the authority to do any act which she may herself execute. Section 5 of the Power of Attorney Act, 1882, provides as under:- 748 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “5. Power-of-attorney of married women.—A married woman, of full age, shall, by virtue of this Act, have power, as if she were unmarried, by a non-testamentary instrument, to appoint an attorney on her behalf, for the purpose of executing any non testamentary instrument or doing any other act which she might herself execute or do; and the provisions of this Act, relating to instruments creating powers-of-attorney shall apply thereto. This section applies only to instruments executed after this Act comes into force.” It cannot be disputed that no such power of attorney, within the meaning of this Act, stood executed by the complainant’s daughter, in favour of her father, respondent No.2.