(7) Without prejudice to the provisions of sub-section (6), if the seller does not collect the tax or after collecting the tax fails to pay it as required under this section, he shall be liable to pay simple interest at the rate of one and one- fourth percent per month or part thereof on the amount of such tax from the date on which such tax was collectible to the date on which the tax was actually paid. (8) Where the tax has not been paid as aforesaid, after it is collected, the amount of the tax together with the amount of simple interest thereon referred to in sub-section (7) shall be a charge upon all the assets of the seller. (9) Where the Assessing Officer is satisfied that the total income of the buyer justifies the collection of the tax at any lower rate than the relevant rate specified in sub-section (1), the Assessing Officer shall, on an application made by the buyer in this behalf, give to him a certificate for collection of tax at such lower rate than the relevant rate specified in sub-section (1). 308 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (10) Where a certificate under sub-section (9) is given, the person responsible for collecting the tax shall, until such certificate is cancelled by the Assessing Officer, collect the tax at the rates specified in such certificate. (11) The Board may, having regard to the convenience of assessees and the interests of revenue, by notification in the Official Gazette, make rules specifying the cases in which, and the circumstances under which, an application may be made for the grant of a certificate under sub-section (9) and the conditions subject to which such certificate may be granted and providing for all other matters connected therewith. Explanation. – For the purposes of this section,- (a) “buyer” means a person who obtains in any sale, by way of auction, tender or any other mode, goods of the nature specified in the table in sub-section (1) or the right to receive any such goods but does not include, - (i) a public sector company, (ii) a buyer in the further sale of such goods obtained in pursuance of such sale, or (iii) a buyer where the goods are not obtained by him by way of auction and where the sale price of such goods to be sold by the buyer is fixed by or under any State Act; (b) “seller” means the Central Government, a State Government or any local authority or corporation or authority established by or under a Central, State or Provincial Act, or any company or firm or co-operative society. 14.1. Sub-section (1) of Section 206C says that every person who is a seller shall collect from the buyer of the goods specified in the table, a sum equal to the percentage specified in the corresponding entry of the table. The collection is to be made at the time of debiting of the amount payable by the buyer to the account of the buyer or at the time of the receipt of such [2024] 7 S.C.R.