As could be seen from the records the actual [2024] 3 S.C.R. 1107 Union of India v. M/s Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. distance between Ammasandra to Panamburu is 358 kms., whereas the railways had calculated the distance as 365 kms., but they have collected the rates applicable for the distance above 360 Kms. It is an admitted fact that after clarification regarding actual distance, the railways had settled some of the claims of the respondent Company regarding excess charges which were within the limitation period. Some of the claims to an extent of Rs.8,85,000/- were rejected on the reason that they were barred by limitation. Under these circumstances, it is necessary to ascertain whether the repudiation of claims regarding Rs.8,85,000/- was justified. xxx xxx xxx 23. The learned counsel for the appellant railways has relied on a decision in the case of Birla Cement Works vs. G M, Western Railways and another reported in (1995) 2 SCC 493, wherein the Hon’ble Supreme Court has held under: “Railways - Railways Act, 1890 - S.78.B - Railway Claims Tribunal Act, 1987 - S 16 - Limitation - Computation of - Claim to refund of excess freight notified under S.78- B beyond the statutory time-limit on discovering the mistake from railway authorities’ letter - Rightly held by the Tribunal and the High Court to be time- barred - Further held, provision in. XXX 4. Section 78-B of the Act provides that a person shall not be entitled to refund of overcharge or excess payment in respect of animal or goods carried by Railway unless his claim to the refund has been preferred in writing by him or on his behalf to the Railway Administration to which the animals or goods were delivered to be carried by Railway etc. within six months from the date of the delivery of the animals or goods for carriage by railway the proviso has no application to the fact of this case. An overcharge is also a charge which would fall within the meaning of Section 78-B of the Act. Since the claims were admittedly made under Section 78-B itself 1108 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports but beyond six months, by operation of that provision in the section itself, the claim becomes barred by limitation. Therefore, the Tribunal and the High Court have rightly concluded that the petitioner is not entitled to the refund of the amount claimed. “ 24. In the aforesaid case the principal contention raised by the petitioner was that the claimant had discovered the mistake when the railway authorities confirmed by their letter that they had committed a mistake in charging excess freight on wrong calculation of distance. As such, the limitation starts running from the date of discovery of mistake and therefore stands excluded by the operation of Section 17(i)(c) of Limitation Act and that Section 78(B) has no application to the facts in this case. But it was held that Section 17(i)(c) of Limitation Act, 1963, would apply only to a suit instituted or an application made in that behalf in the civil suit but whereas the Tribunal is the creature of statute, therefore it is not a civil court nor the limitation act has application, even though it may be held that the petitioner discovered the mistake committed in paying the over charges, the limitation is not saved by operation of Section 17(i) (c) of the Limitation Act.