It could be by way of an enactment of a statute by either the Parliament or a State Legislature.This is by way of a legislation. An instance of this is in Ranganatha Reddy wherein privately owned carriages and buses were taken over by the State of Karnataka through nationalization by way of an enactment. The nationalized resources could be utilized as best to subserve the common good either by the State through its department or through a corporation, or entity created by the State Government, such as a Government Company, or a Corporation or a Society etc. An example is in the case of Rustom Cavasjee Cooper vs. Union of India, AIR 1970 SC 564 (“RC Cooper”) where fourteen private banks were nationalized and the said banks are functioning as nationalized banks. 12.2 Insofar as the acquisition of private material resources is concerned, it could be by way of a special Statute made for achieving the particular purposes of acquisition, having regard to the nature of such resources and such other factors. In the alternative, acquisition could take place under the prevailing or extant laws pertaining to acquisition such as the erstwhile Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (“LA Act, 1894”) which has now been repealed and substituted by Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013 (“2013 Act”). Acquisition could also be under the respective State laws dealing with acquisition of land or other immovable property. But acquisition should be for a public purpose as defined under the laws. 12.3 Mahajan, J. (as the learned Chief Justice then was) speaking for a Constitution Bench of this Court in State of Bihar vs. Kameshwar Singh, AIR 1952 SC 252 (“Kameshwar Singh”), has observed: “The phrase “public purpose” has to be construed according to the spirit of the times in which particular legislation is enacted. x x x [2024] 11 S.C.R. 225 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. The legislature is the best judge of what is good for the community, by whose suffrage it comes into existence....” A wider approach necessarily means that a comprehensive signification has to be given to the expression “public purpose”. 12.4 That the law must also keep pace with the realities of the social and political evolution of the country as reflected in the Constitution. Therefore, anything that would promote the welfare of the people as envisaged in the Directive Principles of State Policy has to be regarded as “public purpose”. Therefore, what was earlier known as economic justice has been crystallised as Directive Principles of State Policy. Hence, the nexus between “public purpose” and Part IV of the Constitution is relevant. 12.5 If public purpose is established under an enactment, then how that public purpose would be carried into the provisions is a matter which is left to the wisdom of the Parliament and State Legislatures. Whether it would be through nationalisation, acquisition or it should resort to pay the market price and buy in the open market any privately owned material resource for transforming it into a “material resource of the community” for the purpose of distribution so as to best subserve the community, is a matter which is within the realm and wisdom of the State.