2. Would a legislator who receives a bribe to cast a vote in a certain direction or speak about certain issues be protected by parliamentary privilege? It is this question of constitutional interpretation that this Court is called upon to decide. A. Reference 3. The Criminal Appeal arises from a dated 17 February 2014 of the High Court of Jharkhand.1 An election was held on 30 March 2012 to elect two members of the Rajya Sabha representing the State of Jharkhand. The appellant, belonging to the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha,2 was a member of the Legislative Assembly of Jharkhand. The allegation against the appellant is that she accepted a bribe from an independent candidate for casting her vote in his favour. However, as borne out from the open balloting for the Rajya Sabha seat, she did not cast her vote in favour of the alleged bribe giver and instead cast her vote in favour of a candidate belonging to her own party. The round of election in question was annulled and a fresh election was held where the appellant voted in favour of the candidate from her own party again. 4. The appellant moved the High Court to quash the chargesheet and the criminal proceedings instituted against her. The appellant claimed protection under Article 194(2) of the Constitution, relying on the of the Constitution bench of this Court in PV Narasimha 1 Writ Petition (Criminal) No 128 of 2013 2 “JMM” 478 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Rao v. State (CBI/SPE)3. The High Court declined to quash the criminal proceedings on the ground that the appellant had not cast her vote in favour of the alleged bribe giver and thus, is not entitled to the protection under Article 194(2). The High Court’s reasoning primarily turned on this Court’s decision in PV Narasimha Rao (supra). The controversy in PV Narasimha Rao (supra) and the present case turns on the interpretation of the provisions of Article 105(2) of the Constitution (which deals with the powers, privileges, and immunities of the members of Parliament and Parliamentary committees) and the equivalent provision in Article 194(2) of the Constitution which confers a similar immunity to the members of the State Legislatures. 5. On 23 September 2014, a bench of two judges of this Court, before which the appeal was placed, was of the view that since the issue arising for consideration is “substantial and of general public importance”, it must be placed before a larger bench of three judges of this court. On 7 March 2019, a bench of three judges which heard the appeal observed that the precise question was dealt with in a of a five-judge bench in PV Narasimha Rao (supra). The bench was of the view that “having regard to the wide ramification of the question that has arisen, the doubts raised and the issue being a matter of public importance”, the matter must be referred to a larger bench. 6. Finally, by an dated 20 September 2023, a five-judge bench of this Court recorded prima facie reasons doubting the correctness of the decision in PV Narasimha Rao (supra) and referred the matter to a larger bench of seven judges.