In a partition suit, if the court is unable to make a division of property by metes and bounds forthright without further inquiry, the court will initially pass a preliminary decree. A preliminary decree for partition identifies the properties to be subjected to partition, defines and declares the shares/rights of the parties. The prayer relating to actual division by metes and bounds and allotment is left for being completed under the final decree proceedings. 42. In regard to immovable properties (other than agricultural lands paying land revenue) - such as buildings, plots etc. or movable properties - where the court can conveniently and without further enquiry make the division without the assistance of any Commissioner, or where parties agree upon the manner of division, the court will pass a composite decree comprising the preliminary decree declaring the rights of several parties and also a final decree dividing the suit properties by metes and bounds, in one . The composite decree is partly preliminary and partly final. The decree declares the proportion of shares and divides the property, thereby settling the partition to rest in one go. 43. XX Rule 18 CPC deals with decree in a suit for partition of property or separate possession of a share therein. There are two decrees in a suit for partition; a preliminary decree and a final decree. A preliminary decree determines and declares the rights of parties and shares of all eligible claimants, final decree carries out and effects partition by metes and bounds of the property on the basis of preliminary decree. If an estate is assessed to payment of revenue to the Government, Collector or his nominee will effect partition. In other cases, however, Commissioner will effect such partition. 44. This Court in Shankar Balwant Lokhande (Dead) by LRs. v. Chandrakant Shankar Lokhande & Anr. reported in AIR 1995 SC 1211, held that where a decree relates to any immovable property and the partition or separation cannot conveniently be effected [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1933 Abdul Rejak Laskar v. Mafizur Rahman & Ors. without further inquiry, then the court should pass a preliminary decree declaring the rights of parties having interest in the property. The court is also empowered to give such directions as may be required. A preliminary decree in a partition suit is a step in the suit which continues until the final decree is passed. 45. This Court in Venkata Reddy & Ors. v. Pethi Reddy reported in AIR 1963 SC 992 held thus: “… A preliminary decree passed, whether it is in a mortgage suit or a partition suit, is not a tentative decree but must, in so far as the matters dealt with by it are concerned, be regarded as conclusive. No doubt, in suits which contemplate the making of two decrees, a preliminary decree and a final decree, the decree which would be executable would be the final decree. But the finality of a decree or a decision does not necessarily depend upon its being executable.