(iii) The Presidential List specifying “Scheduled Castes” under Article 341 assumes finality on the publication of the notification, and the castes, races or tribes, or groups within castes, races or tribes specified in the notification are deemed to be the “Scheduled Castes” in relation to that State or Union Territory as the case may be, for the purposes of the Constitution and as such assume special status of “Scheduled Castes”. (iv) It is only the Parliament by law which can include in or exclude from the list of the “Scheduled Castes” specified in the notification notified under Clause (1), any caste, race or tribe or part of or group within any caste, race or tribe. Such notification notified under Clause (1) cannot be varied even by the President by issuing any subsequent notification. (v) It is by virtue of the notification of the President under Article 341 that the “Scheduled Castes” come into being. Though the members of Scheduled Castes are drawn from different castes, races or tribes, they attain special status of “Scheduled Castes” by virtue of Presidential Notification. The etymological and evolutionary history and the background of the nomenclature “Scheduled Castes”, coupled with the Presidential s 1644 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports published under Article 341 of the Constitution, make the “Scheduled Castes”, a homogenous class, which cannot be tinkered with by the States. (vi) The States have no legislative competence to enact the law for providing reservation or giving preferential treatment to a particular caste/castes by dividing/sub-dividing/sub-classifying or regrouping the castes, races or tribes enumerated as the “Scheduled Castes” in the notification under Article 341. (vii) Under the guise of providing reservation or under the pretext of taking affirmative action for the weaker of the weakest sections of the society, the State cannot vary the Presidential List,nor can tinker with Article 341 of the Constitution. (viii) The Nine-Judge Bench in Indra Sawhney and the Five- Judge Bench in Jarnail Singh had not dealt with the issue of sub-classification of the “Scheduled Castes” in the context of Article 341, much less had dealt with the State’s powers to sub-classify or sub-divide or regroup the castes specified as “Scheduled Castes” under Article 341 of the Constitution, and therefore, it could not be held that the law laid down in E.V. Chinnaiah was not in consonance with Indra Sawhney or Jarnail Singh. (ix) The power conferred upon the Supreme Court under Article 142 cannot be used to supplant the substantive law applicable to the case under consideration. Even with the width of its amplitude, Article 142 cannot be used to build a new edifice where none existed earlier, by ignoring express statutory provisions dealing with the subject, and thereby to achieve something indirectly which cannot be achieved directly. The action of the State, though well intentioned and affirmative in nature, if violates the specific provision of the Constitution, cannot be validated by the Supreme Court in exercise of its jurisdiction under Article 142. (x) The affirmative action and legal frameworks, though both do aim at more equitable society, they must navigate complex legal principles to ensure fairness and constitutionality.