to the Govt. of India” 33. It could thus be seen that for the purposes of the First, Fifth and Sixth Schedules to the 1935 Act , the castes, races or tribes, or parts of or groups within castes, races or tribes specified in Parts I to IX of the Schedule to the 1936 were deemed to be scheduled castes in the Provinces to which those Parts respectively relate. 34. A perusal of the 1936 would reveal that for different provinces different castes were notified as Scheduled Castes. In some of the provinces, a particular caste was to be considered as Scheduled Caste, except in the districts mentioned therein where it was not to be considered as Scheduled Caste. Similarly, in some of the cases, in particular areas or districts, the said castes were deemed to be Scheduled Castes in the same province. 35. It can thus be seen that a same caste in the same province could be a Scheduled Caste only in one or more districts and not in the other districts. 1464 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 36. It could be seen that insofar as the Bombay Province is concerned, the caste ‘Mochi’ would be a Scheduled Caste throughout the Province except in Ahmedabad, Kaira, Broaoh and Panch Mahals and Surat districts. Similarly, a caste ‘Kotegar’ would be a Scheduled Caste only in the Kanara district and not in the rest of the Province. 37. It could thus be seen that the 1936 formed the basis of the Constitution (Scheduled Castes) , 1950 (hereinafter referred to as “the 1950 ”) issued under Article 341(1) after the commencement of the Constitution. 38. Then comes the most important event i.e. the debate in the Constituent Assembly on 17th September 1949, when Dr. B.R. Ambedkar moved two new draft Articles being Articles 300A and 300B, which read thus: “300A-Scheduled Castes (1) The President may, after consultation with the Governor or Ruler of a State, by public notification specify the castes, races or tribes or Scheduled Castes parts of or groups within castes, races or tribes, which shall for purposes of this Constitution be deemed to be Scheduled Castes in relation to that State. (2) Parliament may by law include in or exclude from the list of Scheduled Castes specified in a notification issued by the President under clause (1) of this article any caste, race or tribe or part of or group within any caste, race or tribe, but save as aforesaid a notification issued under the said clause shall not be varied by any subsequent notification. 300B-Scheduled Tribes (1) The President may after consultation with the Governor or Ruler of a State, by public notification specify the tribes or tribal communities or parts of or groups within tribes or tribal communities which shall for purposes of this Constitution be deemed to be scheduled tribes in relation to that State. (2) Parliament may by law include in or exclude from the list of scheduled tribes specified in a notification issued by the President under clause (1) of this article any Tribe or Tribal community or part of or group within [2024] 8 S.C.R.