Such application would be also examined on its own merits.” [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1075 Manish Sisodia v. Directorate of Enforcement 29. A perusal of the aforesaid would reveal that this Court was concerned about the prolonged period of incarceration suffered by the appellant. After considering various earlier pronouncements, this Court emphasised that the right to speedy trial is a fundamental right within the broad scope of Article 21 of the Constitution. Relying on Vijay Madanlal Choudhary and Others v. Union of India and Others,3 this Court observed that Section 436A Cr.P.C. should not be construed as a mandate that an accused should not be granted bail under the PMLA till he has suffered incarceration for the specified period. This Court recorded the assurance given by the prosecution that they shall conclude the trial by taking appropriate steps within next 6-8 months. This Court, after recording the said submissions, granted liberty to the appellant to move a fresh application for bail in case of change in circumstances or in case the trial was protracted and proceeded at a snail’s pace in next three months. This Court observed that if any application was filed, the same would be considered by the trial court on merits without being influenced by the dismissal of the earlier bail applications including its own . It further observed that the observations made regarding the right to speedy trial will be taken into consideration. 30. Since the trial proceeded at a snail’s pace in the period after three months of the first of this Court, the appellant filed the second application for bail before the trial court. The same came to be rejected by the trial court on 30th April 2024. It can thus be seen that it took a period of almost three months for the trial court to decide the said application. By the time the appellant approached the High Court, a period of more than six months had elapsed from the date on which the first of this Court was passed. The same also came to be rejected on 21st May 2024. 31. When the appellant approached this Court in the second round and when the second was passed by this Court on 4th June 2024, a period of 7 months and 4 days had elapsed from the date of the first of this Court. However, this Court took into consideration the statement of the learned Solicitor General that the investigation would be concluded and final complaint/charge-sheet would be filed expeditiously and at any rate on or before 3rd July 2024 and 3 [2022] 6 SCR 382 : (2022) SCC OnLine SC 929 : 2022 INSC 756 1076 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports thereafter, the trial court would be free to proceed with the trial. It, after observing that “having regard to the fact that the period of 6-8 months fixed by this Court in its first having not come to an end”, disposed of the petitions with liberty to the appellant to revive his prayer afresh after filing of the final complaint/charge-sheet.