Initially the question was referred to a Five Judge Constitution Bench which in turn referred it to a Seven Judge Bench and finally to the present Nine Judge Bench. The journey this reference has taken, has already been covered in detail by the Chief Justice in his , and therefore one need not go into it again. 7. Interpretation of a Constitution is different from interpreting an ordinary statute. The obvious difference is in the importance of the Constitution, in the hierarchy of the laws of the land, where the Constitution occupies the highest place. Not only this, all laws must adhere to it, and all other laws directly or indirectly find their source or sustenance from the Constitution. The Constitution therefore sits at the top of the normative pyramid. In his seminal work ‘Purposive Interpretation in Law’, Aharon Barak explains the importance of a Constitution as follows: “It shapes the character of society and its aspiration throughout history. It establishes a nation’s basic political points of view. It lays the foundation for social values, setting goals, obligations and trends. It is designed to guide human behavior over an extended period of time, establishing the framework for enacting legislation and managing the national government. It reflects the events of the past, lays a politics, society, and law. The unique characteristics of a constitution warrant a special interpretive approach to its interpretation, because “it is a constitution we are expounding”.6 5 aharOn Barak, the JudGe in a deMOcracy (Princeton University Press, 2006), Pg. 308. 6 aharOn Barak, PurPOsive interPretatiOn in law (Universal Law Publishing Co., 2007), Pg. 370. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 267 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. A Constitution is also designed by one generation with an eye towards many future generations to come, so that it is able to withstand the vagaries of times. It is a law having special character.7 While interpreting the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms, which is a part of the Canadian Constitution, Chief Justice Dickson of the Canadian Supreme Court wrote: “The task of expounding a constitution is crucially different from that of construing a statute. A statute defines present rights and obligations. It is easily enacted and as easily repealed. A constitution, by contrast, is drafted with an eye to the future. Its function is to provide a continuing framework for the legitimate exercise of governmental power and, when joined by a Bill or a Charter of rights, for the unremitting protection of individual rights and liberties. Once enacted, its provisions cannot easily be repealed or amended. It must, therefore, be capable of growth and development over time to meet new social, political and historical realities often unimagined by its framers. The judiciary is the guardian of the Constitution and must, in interpreting its provisions, bear these considerations in mind.” 8 In determining the meaning of a provision of a Constitution, we have to explore what was in the minds of the framers of the Constitution and what were the objective realities of the times when it was being written.