[Paras 2, 38] Case Law Cited Randheer Singh v. The State of U.P. & others 2021 INSC 440: (2021) 14 SCC 626 – referred to. List of Acts Penal Code, 1860, Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973. List of Keywords Commercial dispute; Abuse of process of law; Forum shopping/ hunting; Quashing of FIR; Unscrupulous litigants; Territorial jurisdiction; Inappropriate use of jurisdiction; Abuse of criminal justice system; Principles of fairness; Misuse of criminal proceedings; Concealment, Falsehood; Material facts concealed; Costs; Abuse of judicial remedies. 392 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Case Arising From CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No.214 of 2024 From the and dated 17.02.2022 of the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad in A482 No.29852 of 2021 With Criminal Appeal No.215 of 2024 Appearances for Parties Nakul Dewan, Kapil Sibal, Anjana Prakash, Vikas Singh, Sr. Advs., Harsh Sethi, Anant Nigam, Neil Chatterjee, Shantanu Parashar, Raghav Luthra, Nitin Bajaj, Shaurya Chaurasiya, Yash Saini, Avneesh Arputham, Mahesh Agarwal, Rishi Agrawala, Ms. Niyati Kohli, Pranjit Bhattacharya, Ms. Anju Prakash, Akhil Sachar, E. C. Agrawala, Saurabh Soni, Akshay Girish Ringe, Nikhil Kohli, Gaurav Gupta, Ms. Megha Mukerjee, Ms. Mannat Singh, Sanjeet Thakur, Ms. Deepika Kalia, Keshav Khandelwal, Garvesh Kabra, Mrs. Pooja Kabra, Ms. Shweta Yadav, Ahmer Shaikh, Advs. for the appearing parties. / of the Supreme Court Vikram Nath, J. & Rajesh Bindal, J. 1. Leave granted. 2. Unscrupulous litigants should not be allowed to go scot-free. They should be put to strict terms and conditions including costs. It is time to check with firmness such litigation initiated and laced with concealment, falsehood, and forum hunting. Even State actions or conduct of government servants being party to such malicious litigation should be seriously reprimanded. In the instant case, we find initiation of criminal proceedings before a forum which had no territorial jurisdiction by submitting incorrect facts and giving frivolous reasons to entertain such complaints. A closer look at the respondent’s actions reveals more than just an inappropriate use of jurisdiction. The core issue of the dispute, which involves financial transactions and agreements, clearly places it in the realm of civil and commercial law. Yet, the respondent chose to pursue criminal [2024] 1 S.C.R. 393 Dinesh Gupta v. The State of Uttar Pradesh & Anr. charges in a quest to abuse the criminal justice system with a motive to seek personal vengeance rather than seeking true justice. This unnecessary turning of a civil matter into a criminal case not only overburdens the criminal justice system but also violates the principles of fairness and right conduct in legal matters. The apparent misuse of criminal proceedings in this case not only damages trust in our legal system but also sets a harmful precedent if not addressed. 3. A common 1 passed by the High Court2 dismissing the petitions filed by the appellants seeking quashing of the summoning 3 has been impugned in the present appeals. FACTUAL MATRIX – 4. Karan Gambhir, who owns M/s D.D. Global Capital Pvt. Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as ‘the Company’) is the complainant in the FIR4 which was registered against Sushil Gupta, Rajesh Gupta, Dinesh Gupta, Baljeet Singh & others.