9.24 In view of the aforesaid conclusions arrived by the Bombay High Court, it was held that the subject items are neither “capital goods” under Rule 2(a)(A) nor “inputs” under Rule 2(k) of the CENVAT Rules and hence CENVAT credit of the duty paid thereon was not admissible to the Assessee. Decision of the Delhi High Court 10. The proceedings before the Delhi High Court arose out of the decision rendered by the CESTAT, New Delhi against an Appeal preferred under Section 35E of the Central Excise Act, 1944 and Section 83 of the Finance Act, 1944. 10.1. The Assessee, Vodafone, provided cellular telecommunication services and paid service tax as applicable. It availed CENVAT credit on excise duty paid on towers, parts thereof and prefabricated shelter/building purchased by it for providing the output services. The credit so availed was utilized to pay service tax on the output services i.e. cellular mobile services to the customers. 10.2. A show cause notice was issued by the Revenue to the Assessee alleging, inter alia, that Vodafone had wrongly claimed and utilized CENVAT Credit in contravention of provisions of Rule 2(a)(A) of the CENVAT Rules, and was liable for penalty recoverable from it under the provisions of Rule 14 of the CENVAT Rules read with Section 73 of the Central Excise Act. According to the Revenue, the Assessee had claimed and used credit in respect of goods which do not qualify as “capital goods” within the meaning of CENVAT Rules. The plea of the Assessee was that these were capital goods within the meaning of Rule 2(a)(A)(i) and (ii) of the CENVAT Rules. Moreover, these were “inputs” used for providing output service, hence the benefit of Rule 3 should be available to the Assessee. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1551 M/s Bharti Airtel Ltd. v. The Commissioner of Central Excise, Pune 10.3 It was also the plea of the Assessee that the credit in respect of “inputs” can be availed immediately on receipt of the goods in the premises of the service provider under Rule 4(1). 10.4 Further, the plea of the Assessee was that BTS constitutes an integrated system for the purpose of providing the benefits of mobile service and is classified under Heading 85.25 of Central Excise Tariff Act, 1985 (CETA) which also comprises of the tower as one of its parts, without which the output service cannot be provided. Hence, it was contended that the tower and parts thereof are parts of eligible “capital good”, i.e. BTS which are used for providing output services. Hence, excise duty paid on tower and its parts were eligible for the credit. 10.5 On similar lines, it was contended that a PFB is purchased for housing electrical equipment i.e. transformers/batteries/ stabilizers, rectifiers etc. which are necessary to enable the antenna to provide uninterrupted signals. The aforesaid configuration is supported by a Diesel Generating Set (Genset) to be used as a backup source of electricity supply in case of failure of the main power supply. It was contended that since BTS as a whole is to be treated as a single integrated system which is classified under Chapter Heading 85.25 of CETA, and thus, BTS being an eligible “capital good”, the parts thereof i.e., the towers and other accessories are also eligible for credit under Rule 2(a)(A)(iii).