11.9.13 The Revenue, however, relied on Triveni Engineering & Industries Ltd. (supra) to contend that there is neither mobility nor marketability in the tower but it is permanently 1582 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports fastened to the earth or building. In this regard, para 13 and 14 of the in Triveni Engineering & Industries Ltd. (supra) may be referred to “13. A perusal of the entry shows that a turbo alternator does not find a place therein eo nomine. The question then will be whether a “turbo alternator” falls within the meaning of “electric-generating set”. To bring a “turbo alternator” under that heading it must be shown to have the attributes of excisable “goods” as understood in the excise law. They are mobility and marketability. The article in question should be capable of being brought and sold in the market — a test which is too well established by a series of decisions of this Court to be elaborated here. 14. There can be no doubt that if an article is an immovable property, it cannot be termed as “excisable goods” for purposes of the Act. From a combined reading of the definition of “immovable property” in Section 3 of the Transfer of Property Act, Section 3(25) of the General Clauses Act, it is evident that in an immovable property there is neither mobility nor marketability as understood in the excise law. Whether an article is permanently fastened to anything attached to the earth requires determination of both the intention as well as the factum of fastening to anything attached to the earth. And this has to be ascertained from the facts and circumstances of each case.” 11.9.14 Hence, it is to be noted that the tower, though appears to be fastened to the earth, cannot be said to be permanently fastened to the earth or a building for the beneficial enjoyment of the land or the building. The tower possesses the characteristics of mobility as the same can be dismantled and relocated to another place or site. Therefore, in our opinion, the decision in Triveni Engineering & Industries Ltd. (supra) cannot be applied in the present case, considering the factum and intention behind fastening [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1583 M/s Bharti Airtel Ltd. v. The Commissioner of Central Excise, Pune of the tower for purpose of keeping the antenna stable and wobble free and that it can be relocated. 11.9.15 Reliance has been also placed by the Revenue on Quality Steel Tubes (P) Ltd. (supra) by drawing our attention to para 5 and 6 of the which read as follows: “5. In several decisions rendered by this Court commencing from Union of India v. Delhi Cloth and General Mills Co. Ltd. [AIR 1963 SC 791 : 1977 ELT 199] to Indian Cable Co. Ltd. v. CCE [(1994) 6 SCC 610 : (1994) 74 ELT 22] the twin test of exigibility of an article to duty under Excise Act are that it must be goods mentioned either in the Schedule or under Item 68 and must be marketable.