Scope of Section 15 of the POCSO and Section 67B of the IT Act. 60. In the case at hand, we are concerned with the interpretation of Section 15 of the POCSO and Section 67B of the IT Act, more particularly the scope of these two provisions and what would constitute an offence under each of them. In other words, what exactly has been made punishable under Section(s) 15 of the POCSO and 67B of the IT Act respectively and what are the necessary ingredients or elements to establish or make out an offence under it. 202 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports a. Contradictory Views of different High Courts on the subject. 61. Before proceeding with the analysis of the aforesaid two provisions, it would be appropriate to refer to the decisions of various High Courts and the cleavage of opinion that have been expressed as regards the scope of Section 15 of the POCSO and Section 67B of the IT Act. 62. In Nupur Ghatge v. State of Madhya Pradesh (MCRC No. 52596 of 2020), the accused therein was alleged to have uploaded child pornographic videos and photographs on his social media account, and thus, a case was registered against him under Section 67B of the IT Act. The Gwalior Bench of the Madhya Pradesh High Court held that Section 67B penalizes various forms of acts including the act of watching or transmitting any child pornographic material in electronic form. It further held that any defence of the accused as to the absence of any involvement in transmission or sharing of such material or the mental state of the accused cannot be looked into at the stage of quashing under Section 482 of the Cr.P.C. The relevant observations read as under: - “From the whats-app chats filed by the applicant, it appears that the applicant himself was involved in porn activities, therefore, the provision of Section 67B of the Act, 2000 would be applicable as Section 67-B of the Act, 2000 also includes records in any electronic form own abuse or that of others pertaining to sexually explicit act with children. xxx xxx xxx The burden is on the applicant to prove his defence which cannot be decided by this Court in exercise of powers under Section 482 of CrPC.” 63. In P.G. Sam Infant Jones v. State represented by Inspector of Police reported in 2021 SCC OnLine Mad 2241 the accused therein was alleged to have browsed, downloaded and transmitted child pornographic material through his e-mail and social media account. Accordingly, a case was registered against him for the offences under Section 15(1) of POCSO and Section 67B of the IT Act, whereupon the accused therein preferred an anticipatory bail application before the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court. The Madras High Court observed that while viewing of pornography in private domain may not be an offence in view of an individual’s [2024] 10 S.C.R. 203 Just Rights for Children Alliance & Anr. v. S. Harish & Ors.