Voluntarily giving up membership of the political party; and b. Voting or abstaining from voting in the House contrary to direction issued by the political party without obtaining prior permission from the political party and when such voting has not been condoned by the political party. 93. The underlying principle of anti-defection law which has been recognised by a seven-Judge Bench of this Court in Kihoto Hollvo. hZacohilnlhu ,"? is that a candidate set up by a political party is elected on the basis of the programme of that political party. In the course of years, while deciding disputes related to the Tenth Schedule, s of this Court have further strengthened the centrality of political parties in the electoral system. In Ravi S Naik v. Union of India’, this Court observed that voluntarily giving up membership of a political party has a wider connotation and includes not just resignation of the member from the party and an inference can also be drawn from the conduct of the member. In Subash Desai v. Principal Secretary, Governor of Maharashtra,' * a Constitution Bench of this Court while interpreting the provisions of the Tenth Schedule held that the political party and not the legislature party (which consists of the members of the House belonging to a particular political party) appoints the Whip of a political party for the purposes of Paragraph 2(1)(b) of the Tenth Schedule. "® selecting a Chief Minister. The of preference suggested is: a. An alliance of parties that was formed prior to the elections. ; b. The largest single party staking a claim to form the Government with the support of others, including “independents”; 0. A post-electoral coalition of parties, with all the partners in the coalition joining the Government; d. A post-electoral alliance of parties, with some of the parties in the alliance forming a Government and the remaining parties, including “Independents” supporting the Government from outside.” 112 [1919 S2CR ]68 6 : (1992) Supp (2) SCC 651 [4] 113 [1919 S4CR ]75 4 : AIR 1994 SC 1558 114 WP (C) No. 493 of 2022 115 Subash Desai [113] 502 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 94. In summation, a ‘political party’ is a relevant political unit in the democratic electoral process in India for the following three reasons: a. Voters associate voting with political parties because of the centrality of symbols in the electoral process; b. The form of government where the executive is chosen from the legislature based on the political party or coalition of political parties which has secured the majority; and c. |The prominence accorded to political parties by the Tenth Schedule of the Constitution. d. The essentiality of information about political funding for the effective exercise of the choice of voting 95. In ADR (supra) and PUCL (supra), this Court held that a voter has a right to information which is essential for them to exercise their freedom to vote. In the previous section, we have concluded that political parties are a relevant political unit.