11. What is the effect of the expression “… subject to any limitations imposed by Parliament by law relating to mineral development” on the taxing power of the State Legislature in List II Entry 50, particularly in view of its uniqueness in the sense that it is the only entry in all the entries in the three Lists (Lists I, II and III) where the taxing power of the State Legislature has been subjected to “any limitations imposed by Parliament by law relating to mineral development”?.” That is how the questions have been placed for consideration of this nine-judge Bench. 1752 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 4. His Lordship, the Chief Justice of India, while holding that royalty is not a tax, has overruled the following dicta of this Court: (i) India Cement; (ii) Orissa Cement Limited vs. State of Orissa, 1991 Supp (1) SCC 430 (“Orissa Cement”); (iii) Mahalaxmi Fabric Mills; (iv) Saurashtra Cement & Chemicals Industries Ltd. vs. Union of India, (2001) 1 SCC 91, (“Saurashtra Cement”), and (v) State of Orissa vs. Mahanadi Coalfields Ltd., 1995 Supp. (2) SCC 686 (“Mahanadi Coalfields”). While coming to the aforesaid conclusion, three significant s of this Court in Hingir- Rampur Coal Co. Ltd. vs. State of Orissa, (1961) 2 SCR 537 (“Hingir-Rampur”); State of Orissa vs. M.A. Tulloch, (1964) 4 SCR 461 (“M.A. Tulloch”) and Baijnath Kedia vs. State of Bihar, (1969) 3 SCC 838 (“Baijnath Kedia”) have been discussed. 5. Since the Entries under discussion are in their respective Lists of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution, it would be unnecessary to refer to them as being part of “the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution” in the following discussion. 6. On enumerating the questions for opinion of this nine-judge Bench, five issues have been encapsulated in paragraph 5 of the of the learned Chief Justice of India which read as under: "5. During the course of the hearing, counsel for the petitioners and respondents agreed that the main questions that fall for determination by this Court could be reframed in the following terms: a. What is the true nature of royalty determined under Section 9 read with Section 15(1) of the MMDR Act? Whether royalty is in the nature of tax. b. What is the scope of Entry 50 of List II of the Seventh Schedule? What is the ambit of the limitations imposable by Parliament in exercise of its legislative powers under Entry 54 of List I? Does Section 9, or any other provision of the MMDR Act, contain any limitation with respect to the field in Entry 50 of List II? c. Whether the expression “subject to any limitations imposed by Parliament by law relating to mineral development” in Entry 50 of List II pro tanto subjects the entry to Entry 54 List I, which is a non-taxing general [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1753 Mineral Area Development Authority & Anr. v. M/s Steel Authority of India & Anr. Etc. entry? Consequently, is there any departure from the general scheme of distribution of legislative powers as enunciated in M.P.V.