Vide an dated 03.12.2018, the CAT dismissed the OA relying upon Rule 5(1) of the PAR Rules read with Paragraph 9.4 of Appendix -II of the ‘General Guidelines for Filing-Up the PAR Form for IAS Officers Except the Level of Secretary or Additional Secretary or Equivalent to the Government of India’ (the “Guidelines”) (the “CAT ”). The operative paragraph(s) of the CAT are reproduced as under: "7. A co-joint reading of the aforementioned rule and guideline makes it clear that, they provide a window, by not having a barring clause on the Accepting Authority recording remarks beyond the prescribed time limit, and have actually set a date of 31st December of the year in which the financial year ended as the time limit for recording PAR. Thus, the limit fixed for writing the appraisal report by various authorities, in the Schedule 2, is the minimum or ideal period within which the remarks are required to be made. Further, if the PAR [2024] 3 S.C.R. 397 The State of Haryana v. Ashok Khemka & Anr. ` is not recorded by 31st December of the yar in which the financial year ended, no remarks shall be recorded thereafter. We note that the for the financial year 2016-2017, the period under report challenged by the applicant, 31.12.2017 would be the ultimate time limit for recording PAR and the outer limit of time, beyond which no remarks can be made in the appraisal report. 8. A perusal of Annexure A-1 reflects that the appraisal report of the applicant by the Accepting Authority was written on 31.12.2017 and was written well within the limit prescribed under the relevant Rule 5(1) and guideline 9.4. Applicant appears to have overlooked the applicability of these two rules while presenting his case to the Bench for expunging the remarks and over-all grade recorded by the Accepting Authority.” 8. Subsequently, Respondent No. 1 preferred a writ petition before the High Court. Vide the Impugned , the High Court set-aside the CAT observing, inter alia, that (i) the Accepting Authority failed to appreciate the various practical constraints faced by Respondent No. 1 i.e., an upright, intelligent and honest officer, in the discharge of his duties; (ii) that the Reviewing Authority revised the Reporting Authority’s overall grading qua Respondent No. 1 in a transparent, fair and reasoned manner; and (iii) that the Underlying Representation had still not been decided by the Accepting Authority. Accordingly, in view of the aforesaid the overall grades and remarks awarded by the Reviewing Authority to Respondent No. 1 in the PAR came to be resorted by the High Court. Submissions 9. Mr. Mukul Rohatgi, Learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the Appellant submitted before this Court that the timelines prescribed under Rule 5(1) of the PAR Rules were met by the State of Haryana in respect of Respondent No. 1’s PAR. Accordingly, it was submitted that no prejudice was caused to Respondent No. 1 merely on account of a delay vis-à-vis the timelines prescribed under Schedule 2 of the Guidelines issued under the PAR Rules (the “Schedule”).