331 G.M. Shahul Hameed v. Jayanthi R. Hegde marked without application of the mind of the court and without objection of the other side and this court is of the view that the admissibility of the document could be considered at this stage. The IA Nos. IX and X are allowed.” 18. On the face of such an , it does not leave any scope for doubt that on the date the GPA was admitted in evidence and marked as an exhibit, the Trial Court did not deliberate on its admissibility, much less applied its judicial mind, resulting in an absence of judicial determination. In the absence of a ‘decision’ on the question of admissibility or, in other words, the Trial Court not having ‘decided’ whether the GPA was sufficiently stamped, section 35 of the 1957 Act cannot be called in aid by the respondent. For section 35 to come into operation, the instrument must have been “admitted in evidence” upon a judicial determination. The words “judicial determination” have to be read into section 35. Once there is such a determination, whether the determination is right or wrong cannot be examined except in the manner ordained by section 35. However, in a case of “no judicial determination”, section 35 is not attracted. 19. In the light of the aforesaid reasoning of the Trial Court of admitted failure on its part to apply judicial mind coupled with the absence of the counsel for the appellant before it when the GPA was admitted in evidence and marked exhibit, a factor which weighed with the Trial Court, we have no hesitation to hold that for all purposes and intents the Trial Court passed the dated 19th October, 2010 in exercise of its inherent power saved by section 151, CPC, to do justice as well as to prevent abuse of the process of court, to which inadvertently it became a party by not applying judicial mind as required in terms of sections 33 and 34 of the 1857 Act. We appreciate the approach of the Trial Court in its judicious exercise of inherent power. 20. Reference to section 58 of the 1957 Act by learned counsel for the respondent is without substance. The clear language of section 58 refers to a situation, where an is passed admitting an instrument in evidence as duly stamped or as one not requiring a stamp, for its attraction. As evident from a bare reading of the dated 19th October, 2010, the Trial Court did neither hold the GPA as duly 332 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports stamped or as not requiring a stamp and, therefore, its applicability was not attracted. 21. We may not turn a blind eye to the fact that the revenue would stand the risk of suffering huge loss if the courts fail to discharge the duty placed on it per provisions like section 33 of the 1957 Act. Such provision has been inserted in the statute with a definite purpose. The legislature has reposed responsibility on the courts and trusted them to ensure that requisite stamp duty, along with penalty, is duly paid if an unstamped or insufficiently stamped instrument is placed before it for admission in support of the case of a party.