[Para 75] 5.6. In such circumstances, although it is not possible to hold the accused liable for the offence under Section 138 of the NI Act, yet the possibility of him having committed the offence of cheating cannot be ruled out – Prima facie, the mens rea (guilty mind) of the accused speaks for itself – It is left open to the complainant to approach the jurisdictional police station and lodge an appropriate 1950 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports FIR against the accused – If the complainant lodges an FIR, the concerned police officer in-charge of the police station shall investigate the same in accordance with law. [Paras 76, 77] Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881 – s.138 – Penal provision – Has to be strictly construed: Held: Section 138 of the NI Act being penal in nature has to be strictly construed and advertence to the object behind its enactment can only be made to supplement the language employed in the text of the statute and not to supplant it or render it overly broad and susceptible to misuse. [Para 68] Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881 – ss.138 and 141 – Scope – Liability and vicarious liability: Held: It is only the drawer of the cheque who can be held liable under Section 138 – Section 141 is an exception to this scheme of the NI Act and provides for vicarious liability of persons other than the drawer of the cheque in cases where the drawer of the cheque under Section 138 is a corporate person. [Para 39] Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881 – ss.7 and 138 – Expression “on an account maintained by him with a banker” used in s.138 – Meaning of: Held: The expression describes the relationship between the account holder and the banker – This relationship is fundamental to the application of Section 138 – The act of maintaining an account is exclusively tied to the account holder and does not extend to any third party whom the account holder may authorize to manage the account on its behalf – Therefore, any delegation of authority to manage the account does not alter the intrinsic relationship existing between the account holder and the banker as envisaged under the NI Act. [Para 45] Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881 – ss.7, 138 and 141 – Whether authorized signatory of a company falls within the ambit of the expression “drawer”: Held: Corporate persons like companies, which are mere legal entities and have no soul, mind or limb to work physically, discharge their functions through some human agency recognised under the law to work – Therefore, if some function is discharged by [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1951 Bijoy Kumar Moni v. Paresh Manna & Anr. such human agency for and on behalf of the company it would be an act of the company and not attributable to such human agent – One such instance of discharge of functions could be the authority to manage the bank accounts of the company, issue and sign cheques on its behalf, etc.