He also admitted that it is with respect to that work for which the 19 workers were 632 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports regularized. The High Court also observed that there was no evidence to dispute that all 32 workers were engaged in removing spillages from railway sidings and below the bunker, which is in addition to operating chutes. The High Court, therefore, upheld the view taken by the Tribunal. The Review Petition bearing No. 77/2017 filed by the management was also dismissed by the dated 11.11.2021. 9. We have heard Mr. Aman Lekhi, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant, assisted by Mr. Siddharth Jain, Mr. Soumyajit Pani and Ms. Aishwary Bajpai, Advocates and also Mr. Ashok Kumar Panda, learned Senior Counsel for the respondent- union, assisted by Mr. Tejaswi Kumar Pradhan, Mr. Mohan Prasad Gupta, Mr. Manoranjan Paikaray and Mr. Shashwat Panda, Advocates. 10. Submissions of the appellant: Before this court, the appellant company contends that the Award dated 23.05.2002 is bad in law. It argues that the settlement was binding on the parties due to Section 18(1) read with Section 36, Industrial Disputes Act and it continues to be so by virtue of Section 19(2) of the Act, since the settlement was never terminated. 10.1 The settlement was reached after verification of the nature of works performed. It was found that 19 workers were performing perennial and permanent work and the work of the remaining 13 workers was ‘casual’ in nature. 10.2 There was no provision to regularize such workers under the NCWA-IV. The only provision under which regularization could be claimed would be Section 25F of the Industrial Disputes Act, but the said provision applies only to workers who worked under the direct supervision of the company for a certain period and wrongfully stopped thereafter. In the present case, as the workmen worked under the supervision of a contractor and not the appellant, Section 25F will have no application. 10.3 Lastly, it is contended that the Tribunal had wrongly directed the appellant to disburse backwages to the 13 workers. This is contrary to the settled principle that grant of backwages can never be automatic or a natural consequence of regularization. The workers seeking regularization and backwages have an onus to show that they are not gainfully employed. For this, the appellant relied on J.K. Synthetics Ltd. v. K.P. Agrawal & anr. reported as (2007) 2 SCC 433 to support this contention. [2024] 3 S.C.R. 633 Mahanadi Coalfields Ltd. v. Brajrajnagar Coal Mines Workers’ Union 11. Submissions of the respondent-union: The respondent-union submitted that all 32 workers were engaged in works of a similar nature. They assert that the list in the industrial reference dated 20.05.1997 shows that workers were arbitrarily deprived of regularization, wherein certain workers from the bunker and the plant were left out of the settlement without any reason. It is also argued that the work in the railway siding was perennial and regular in nature, similar to the works in the bunker.