The problem with the classification test is that what constitutes a reasonable classification is reduced to a mere formula: the quest for an intelligible differentia and the rational nexus to the object sought to be achieved. In doing so, the test of classification risks elevating form over substance. The danger inherent in legal formalism lies in its inability to lay threadbare the values which guide the process of judging constitutional rights. Legal formalism buries the life-giving forces of the Constitution under a mere mantra. What it ignores is that Article 14 contains a powerful statement of values – of the substance of equality before the law and the equal protection of laws. To reduce it to a formal exercise of classification may miss the true value of equality as a safeguard against arbitrariness in state action. As our constitutional jurisprudence has evolved towards recognizing the substantive content of liberty and equality, the core of Article 14 has emerged out of the shadows of classification. Article 14 has a substantive content on which, together with liberty and dignity, the edifice of the Constitution is built. Simply put, in that avatar, it reflects the quest for ensuring fair treatment of the individual in every aspect of human endeavor and in every facet of human existence.” 58. Similarly, in Lt. Col. Nitisha v. Union of India,49 the Court referred to jurisprudence relating to indirect discrimination which may also be a valid reason to strike down a legislation. This decision refers to the principle of substantive equality and that the right of equality should not be seen through a narrow lens. The court should examine the 47 [2014] 5 SCR 119 : (2014) 5 SCC 438 48 (2018) 10 SCC 1 49 [2021] 4 SCR 633 : (2021) 15 SCC 125 [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1411 State of Andhra Pradesh and Others v. Dr. Rao, V.B.J. Chelikani and Others impact of the law, and whether the law or a policy adversely affects members of a particular disadvantaged group disproportionately. In other words, when the courts examine the question of rationality of a classification, they in a way also examine non-classificatory arbitrariness. No doubt, in doing so, the court does show a degree of deference. There are decisions of this Court which hold that under- inclusiveness will not result in invalidity of a statute, and that the State is not obligated to extend a policy to all such cases to which it would otherwise apply.50 These decisions are based on the premise that a legislation is permitted to recognise degrees of harm and may confine its restrictions or benefits to those cases where the need is the clearest. Legislative or executive action does not deal with absolutes. 59. Thus, over the years, there is a discernible and marked shift from mere formal equality to the broader concept of substantive equality, which encompasses various dimensions of the principle of equality.51 On one hand, substantive equality focuses on correction of historical wrongs, checking stereotypes, stigma, prejudice etc.,52 while on the other, it also scrutinizes if a law or policy is inherently discriminatory.