There was a dispute as to whether the appellant therein had not developed the recreational grounds. While considering the expression “development”, it was observed that the same was of wide import and in fact clause (b) of sub-section (1) of Section 126 of the Act has used both the expressions, namely (i) development; and (ii) construction. Therefore, the word “development” has to be understood to mean any activity which may or may not include construction. Therefore, the question in the said case was, whether, the appellant therein had developed or constructed any amenity which ought to be tested with reference to the final DCR. While referring to the definition of amenity in Regulation 2(7) which includes recreational grounds, reference was made to Regulation 34 and it was observed that Appendix-VII was later renumbered as Appendix-VII-A vide dated 15.10.1997. It was observed that clauses (5), (6) and (7) of the Regulation 34 was the substratum of the controversy before the High Court. 14.4 Going through the entire gamut of correspondence involved in the said case, it was held that all the activities undertaken by appellant No.1 therein through the Architects till handing over of the possession of the land were not towards the development of amenity and the grant of additional TDR. All these works were undertaken as part of the effort to make the Municipal Corporation accept the surrender of land and to grant TDR. On the facts of the said case, it was held that no amenity was developed as required by law by appellants Nos.1 and 2 therein to be entitled to additional TDR. Therefore, on facts, it was held that appellant was not entitled for additional TDR. Accordingly, the view of the High Court was confirmed and the appeal was dismissed. [2024] 9 S.C.R. 869 Kukreja Construction Company & Others v. State of Maharashtra & Others Yeshwant Jagannath Vaity: 15. In Yeshwant Jagannath Vaity, the facts were that the respondents therein owned 10,000 sq. yards of land in Mulund village, which came within the area of Greater Bombay. A development plan was sanctioned for Greater Bombay in the year 1957. The said land was shown as reserved for public purpose of construction of a godown. However, the respondents and four other co-owners entered into a private agreement to handover possession of 10,000 sq. yards to the Municipal Corporation of Greater Bombay (MCGB) for temporary use as a truck terminal. The land was also to be used as a town duty office. The possession was handed over on 18.09.1961. The land was not put to any other use till November 1998. Therefore, Writ Petition No.3437 of 1988 was filed seeking a declaration that the land was not liable to be acquired which resulted into a compromise between the parties in which MCGB agreed to acquire and retain the area of 3500 sq. metres for the purpose of establishing and constructing an export octroi office. The respondents therein constructed the export office and also developed the surrounding area. The possession of the export office and the courtyard was handed over to the MCGB for which a possession receipt was also issued.