12.16 Therefore, in deciding on “intoxicating liquors”, the contours of interpretation must be concerned only with the very nature of the product of “intoxicating liquors” rather than the entire industry concerning alcohol. Entry 8 – List II provides the legislative competence to States to regulate production, manufacture, possession, transport, purchase and sale of only “intoxicating liquors”. It must follow from this that what is being produced or manufactured or possessed or transported or purchased or sold must actually be “intoxicating liquors” and not any other alcoholic product. 12.17 Halsbury’s Laws of England (Fourth Edition), Volume 26 defines the meaning of “intoxicating liquors” as discussed in the context of the distinction between wholesale and retail trade. It is stated that “Dealing wholesale” means “the sale at 2122 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports any one time to any one person of not less than two gallons or one case of spirits, wine or made-wine, or not less than four and a half gallons or two cases of beer”. “Selling by retail” means “the sale at any one time to any one person of not more than two gallons or one case of spirits, wine or made-wine or not more than four and a half gallons or two cases of beer or cider”. The following definitions are apposite: (i) “Spirits” is defined to mean spirits of any description and includes all liquors mixed with spirits and all mixtures, compounds and preparations made with spirits, but does not include methylated spirits : Customs and Excise Act, 1952. (ii) “Wine” means liquor obtained from the alcoholic fermentation of fresh grapes or the must of fresh grapes, whether or not it is fortified with spirits or flavoured with aromatic extracts. (iii) “Made-wine” means any liquor obtained from the alcoholic fermentation of any substance or by mixing a liquor so obtained or derived from a liquor so obtained with any other liquor or substance, but does not include wine, beer, black beer, spirits or cider. This definition replaced an earlier one in different terms of “British wine”. (iv) The definition of “beer” includes ale, porter, stout and any other description of beer and any other liquor which is made or sold as a description of beer or as a substitute for beer which on analysis of a sample at any time is found to be of a strength exceeding two degrees of proof, but does not include liquor made elsewhere than upon the licenced premises of a brewer for sale which on analysis of a sample at any time is found to be of an original gravity not exceeding 1,016 degrees and to be of a strength not exceeding two degrees of proof : Customs and Excise Act, 1952. (v) “Intoxicating liquors” means spirits, wine, beer, cider and any fermented, distilled or spiritous liquor but (apart from cider) does not include any liquor for the sale of which by wholesale no excise licence is required : Licensing Act, 1964. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2123 State of U.P.