The same was awarded with costs. 2334 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports PROCEEDINGS BEFORE THE FIRST APPELLATE COURT 4. The learned First Appellate Court found for its consideration one solitary issue which was the correctness of the and decree of the Trial Court. Having considered the evidence on record, the conclusion arrived at is as under:- “… Therefore, for the above said facts, I finally decided that Ex.A1 registered settlement deed was executed for valuable consideration and as such the deceased Govindammal has got 2/3rd share in the suit properties on the basis of Ex.A1 registered settlement deed and as such her legal heirs, i.e. the respondents/plaintiff are entitled to get 2/3rd share in the suit properties as prayed for in the plaint. Earlier, I decided that the appellant/ second defendant has miserably failed to prove that the suit properties were divided by states and bounds orally in the year 1964 and mutation of revenue records in the name of the deceased first defendants. Thiru Markandeya Reddy would not affect the rights of the respondent/plaintiff over the suit properties and also in view of the registered settlement deed dated 5.5.1963 the respondent/plaintiff are entitled to get 2/3rd share in the suit properties as prayed for in the plaint and as such there is no reason to interfere with the findings of the trial court and also no merit in this Civil appeal. In view of the above said findings, I come to the conclusion that this civil appeal is liable to be dismissed and I answered this point accordingly.” PROCEEDINGS IN SECOND APPEAL 5. Substantial questions of law, arising in the appeal were recorded in para 6 of the impugned . It reads as under : "1. Whether the courts below have considered the material evidence in the case and have properly applied the law relating to consideration and appreciation of family arrangement while considering the defence put forward by the defendant in this regard? [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2335 Ramachandra Reddy (Dead) Thr. LRs. & Ors. v. Ramulu Ammal (Dead) Thr. LRs. 2. Whether the courts below have properly considered the material evidence in the case namely, Ex.A1, which is a gift (settlement) deed gifting undivided share in the coparcenary property? 3. Whether the Courts below properly considered the material evidence, namely Ex.B16 and Ex.B17, which have been brought into existence by the plaintiffs pending the suit which contain the admission to lean towards the family arrangement?” 6. The High Court concluded that, (a) the learned Courts below correctly concluded that oral partition had indeed not taken place; (b) that the Courts below committed an error in holding the settlement deed to be valid and thereby awarding 2/3rd share in favour of the original plaintiffs i.e., heirs of Govindammal; (c) that Ex.B16 and B17, cannot be taken as sufficient evidence to prove oral partition. In view of this conclusion, the and decree of the Courts below were modified to the extent that:- “…Accordingly, the plaintiffs being the legal representatives/ legal heirs of Venkata Reddy are entitled to one half share and the defendant being the sole widow of D1 Markandeya Reddy s/o Venkata Rama Reddy is entitled to another half share in all the suit properties.