Accordingly, the Special Leave Petition is dismissed. However, reliance has been placed upon a recent three-Judge Bench decision of this Court delivered on 17.12.2019 in Central Organisation for Railway Electrification v. ECI- SPIC-SMO-MCML (JV) A Joint Venture Company, 2019 SCC OnLine SC 1635. We have perused the aforesaid and prima facie disagree with it for the basic reason that once the appointing authority itself is incapacitated from referring the matter to arbitration, it does not then follow that notwithstanding this yet appointments may be valid depending on the facts of the case. 2. We therefore request the Hon’ble Chief Justice to constitute a larger Bench to look into the correctness of this .” (emphasis supplied) 13. When the reference came up on 12 July 2023, Mr R Venkataramani, the Attorney General for India, submitted that the Union Government had constituted an Expert Committee on Arbitration Law16 (chaired by Dr T K Viswanathan) to reconsider the provisions of the Arbitration Act. It was further submitted that the issues that have been raised in the present reference would fall within the broad remit of the Expert Committee. On 17 January 2024, the Constitution Bench provided three months to the Union Government to evaluate the recommendations of the Expert Committee. The Court was informed on 16 April 2024 that the government had not taken any decision on the recommendations of the Expert Committee. The Constitution Bench decided to take up the reference for final hearing. 15 2021 SCC OnLine SC 271. 16 “Expert Committee” [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2201 Central Organisation for Railway Electrification v. M/s ECI SPIC SMO MCML (JV) A Joint Venture Company B. Issues 14. The following issues fall for the determination of this Court: a. Whether an appointment process which allows a party who has an interest in the dispute to unilaterally appoint a sole arbitrator, or curate a panel of arbitrators and mandate that the other party select their arbitrator from the panel is valid in law; b. Whether the principle of equal treatment of parties applies at the stage of the appointment of arbitrators; and c. Whether an appointment process in a public-private contract which allows a government entity to unilaterally appoint a sole arbitrator or majority of the arbitrators of the arbitral tribunal is violative of Article 14 of the Constitution. C. Submissions 15. Mr Gourab Banerji, Mr Neeraj Kishan Kaul and Mr S Ravi Shankar, senior counsel, and Mr Rohan Talwar, Mr George Poothan Poothicote and Mr Anirurdh Krishnan, counsel, made the following submissions: a. Party autonomy is subject to the mandatory provisions of the Arbitration Act such as Section 18 (equal treatment of parties) and Section 12(5) (independence and impartiality of the arbitration proceedings). A panel of potential arbitrators unilaterally controlled by one party suffers from a lack of independence and impartiality; b. An arbitration clause that gives one party the power to appoint a sole arbitrator will give rise to a reasonable apprehension of bias concerning the independence and impartiality of the tribunal. The test to determine the existence of reasonable apprehension of bias is that of a reasonable third person; c. Section 12(5) overrides an arbitration agreement because of the non obstante clause.