are also null and void and would pale into insignificance in view of there being no valid Hindu marriage and, therefore, the same may also be declared null and void. 10. They submitted that the joint application filed by the parties herein may be taken on record and the prayers sought by them may be granted. 11. The parties are present before the Court. They have been identified by their respective counsel. When queried by this Court, they indeed stated that there was no “marriage” solemnized by them inasmuch as no customs, rites and rituals performed. However, due to certain exigencies and pressures, they were constrained to obtain the certificate dated 07.07.2021 from Vadik Jankalyan Samiti (Regd.) and on the basis of that certificate they sought registration under the Uttar Pradesh Registration Rule, 2017 and a “Certificate of Marriage” was issued by the Registrar of Marriages on 07.07.2021. That when there was no Hindu marriage which took place between them, the issuance of the said certificate is of no consequence. They further stated in unison that this court may allow the prayers sought for by [2024] 5 S.C.R. 515 Dolly Rani v. Manish Kumar Chanchal them and declare that no marriage took place between the parties and thereby permit them to lead their independent lives. 12. They further stated that the joint application has been filed under Article 142 of the Constitution of India on their own free volition without there being any coercion or undue influence from any side and that they would abide by the terms and conditions of the joint application and hence, this Court may grant the reliefs to them. 13. In the above backdrop, we have taken on record the joint application filed by the parties under Article 142 of the Constitution of India and we have perused the same. In the said joint application, the petitioner has sought for quashing of Maintenance Case No.326/2023 filed by her and the Criminal Case instituted vide FIR No.463/2022 before Police Station-Sukhdev Nagar, Ranchi and the proceedings thereunder against the respondent and his parents herein which may also be quashed. 14. We have perused the other terms and conditions mentioned in the joint application. We find the same to be lawful and we do not find any legal impediment in accepting the terms and conditions of the joint application. But before granting the reliefs sought for by the parties we wish to make certain observations. Section 7 of the Act reads as under: “7. Ceremonies for a Hindu marriage.—(1) A Hindu marriage may be solemnized in accordance with the customary rites and ceremonies of either party thereto. (2) Where such rites and ceremonies include the Saptapadi (that is, the taking of seven steps by the bridegroom and the bride jointly before the sacred fire), the marriage becomes complete and binding when the seventh step is taken.” 15. Section 7 of the Act speaks about ceremonies of a Hindu marriage. Sub-section (1) uses the word “solemnised”. The word “solemnised” means to perform the marriage with ceremonies in proper form.