8. The next question is : does S. 18A of the Acquisition Act create a right in the State to realise Dead Rent? The language of Section 18A quoted above, while referring ‘royalty’ has omitted to include ‘Dead Rent’ in the Section. ‘Royalty’ and ‘Dead Rent’ are two separate and distinct 6 AIR 1984 Pat 280 1924 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports liabilities payable by lessees and have been dealt with separately by two Sections of the Development Act, that is, Sections 9 and 9A. The rates are also detailed in the second and third schedules respectively. The rate of royalty is related to the quantity of coal to be extracted while Dead Rent is payable area-wise. Royalty is payable on the extracted mineral while Dead Rent on area having unworked mineral. The two expressions cannot be treated to refer to a common claim by the State. The distinction between the two has been appreciated and discussed in the decisions in Bhorulal v. State of Rajasthan (AIR 1956 Raj 161), Sethi Marble Stone Industries v. State of Rajasthan (AIR 1958 Raj 140) and Surajdin Laxmanlal v. State of Madhya Pradesh (AIR 1960 MP 129). The view of the Certificate Officer that royalty includes Dead Rent is, therefore, clearly illegal. It must, therefore, be held that Dead Rent is not payable by reason of Section 18A.” 10. Insofar as the instant case at hand, we are only concerned with the observations pertaining to Section 10 of CBA, 1957 in the above and not with the claim of dead rent under Section 18A thereof. However, before going into the applicability/utility of the above , we find it pertinent to produce the relevant provisions of CBA, 1957, which are as follows: “7. Power to acquire land or rights in or over land notified under Section 4.—(1) If the Central Government is satisfied that coal is obtainable in the whole or any part of the land notified under sub-section (1) of section 4, it may, within a period of two years from the date of the said notification or within such further period not exceeding one year in the aggregate as the Central Government may specify in this behalf, by notification in the Official Gazette, give notice of its intention to acquire the whole or any part of the land or of any rights in or over such land, as the case may be. (2) If no notice to acquire the land or any rights in or over such land is given under sub-section (1) within the period allowed thereunder, the notification issued under sub-section (1) of section 4 shall cease to have effect on the expiration of three years from the date thereof.” [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1925 State of U.P. & Anr. v. Northern Coal Fields 9. Declaration of acquisition.—(1) When the Central Government is satisfied, after considering the report, if any, made under Section 8 that any land or any rights in or over such land should be acquired, a declaration shall be made by it to that effect [, and different declarations may be made from time to time in respect of different parcels of any land, or of rights in or over such land, covered by the same notification under sub-section (1) of Section 7, irrespective of whether one report or different reports has or have been made (wherever required) under sub-section (2) of section 8]: [Provided that no declaration in respect of any particular land, or rights in or over such land, covered by a notification under sub-section (1) of section 7, issued after the commencement of the Coal Bearing Areas (Acquisition and Development) Amendment and Validation Act, 1971 (54 of 1971), shall be made after the expiry of three years from the date of the said notification: Provided further that, where a declaration] relates to any land or to any rights in or over land belonging to a State Government which has or have not been leased out, no such declaration shall be made except after previous consultation with the State Government.