Therefore, by a deeming fiction and by operation of law the right, title and interest in any property vested in the Custodian under the Act shall be extinguished vis-à-vis any enemy or enemy subject or enemy firm once such property is vested in the Custodian only with regard to succession to such enemy property or transfer of such property by an enemy, enemy subject or enemy firm. This would imply that the enemy, enemy subject as well as enemy firm would continue to remain the owner of such property and would continue to vest with the Custodian on the death of the enemy. 15.5 The pertinent question which arises is, whether, vesting of any enemy property in the Custodian under the provisions of the Act which belonged or was held or managed on behalf of an enemy, an enemy subject or an enemy firm would result in “transfer of title” in the said enemy property to the Custodian and therefore to the Central Government or to the Union. In to discern an answer to this question, it is necessary to read further the provisions of the Act from Section 7 onwards. 15.6 Section 7 states that any sum otherwise payable to an enemy, enemy subject or an enemy firm in the form of dividend, interests share profits or otherwise to or for the benefit of an enemy or an enemy subject or an enemy firm, unless otherwise ed by the Central Government, be paid by the person by [2024] 2 S.C.R. 903 Lucknow Nagar Nigam & Others v. Kohli Brothers Colour Lab. Pvt. Ltd. & Others whom such sum would have been payable to the Custodian or such other person as may be authorised by him in this behalf and shall be held by the Custodian or such person subject to the provisions of the Act. This provision indicates that the Custodian only holds in trust the sums payable by any person to an enemy subject or an enemy firm. This is because the Custodian of Enemy Property acts as a trustee of the enemy property vested in him as well as a trustee of all monetary dues payable to an enemy, enemy subject or enemy firm. The Custodian shall, subject to the provisions of Section 8, deal with any money paid to him under the Act or under the Defence of India Rules, 1962 or 1971 as the case may be. Further, any property vested in the Custodian under the Act shall be dealt with by him as the Central Government may direct. 15.7 What are the powers of the Custodian in respect of property vested in him? This is dealt with in Section 8 of the Act. The Custodian may take or authorise the taking of such measures as he considers necessary or expedient for preserving such property till it is disposed of in accordance with the provisions of the Act. Sub-section (2) of Section 8 speaks of eleven exigencies which a Custodian or such person as may be specifically authorised by him may take.