110. A perusal of the materials placed on record would reveal that the NTCA vide its dated 5th June 2015, had granted an in-principal approval for establishment of the ‘Tiger Safari’ in Pakhrau. The CZA, vide dated 12th February 2019, conveyed its approval on the conditions stipulated therein. The ‘Tiger Safari’ project, therefore, was approved by the CZA. Since at the relevant time, ‘Tiger Safari’ was considered as a ‘part forest and part non-forestry’ activity, an in-principal approval was granted by the Government of India under the Forest Conservation Act on 30th October 2020 for the Forest Clearance of 15% of the area. The Stage-I clearance was granted on 30th October 2020 and the Stage II clearance was granted on 10th September 2021. 111. It could be seen that, the location of the ‘Tiger Safari’ has not been identified as per clause 10 of the 2016 Guidelines which requires recommendations of the Committee comprising of the members from (i) NTCA, (ii) CZA, (iii) Forest Department of concerned State, (iv) an experienced tiger biologist/scientist/conservationist, and (v) a representative, nominated by the Chief Wildlife Warden of the concerned State. 112. From the record, it does not appear that such a Committee was constituted for the purpose of determining the location of the ‘Tiger Safari’ at Pakhrau. However, since there are approvals from the NTCA and the CZA and since the proposal for the establishment of ‘Tiger Safari’ was submitted by the Forest Department of the State, and since the Chief Wildlife Warden was also associated with identification of the location, we find that, though technically 256 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports there will be non-compliance with the requirement of clause 10 of the 2016 Guidelines; in fact, since most of the authorities mentioned therein are ad idem, we do not wish to interfere with the decision to establish the ‘Tiger Safari’ at Pakhrau. 113. We also place on record that Shri Anup Malik, IFS, PCCF (HoFF), Uttarakhand, and Dr. Samir Sinha, IFS, PCCF (Wildlife) & Chief Wildlife Warden, Uttarakhand, who were present in the Court during the hearing, have informed the Court that 80% of the work of the ‘Tiger Safari’ is complete. It is further informed that there are many tigers, who after their treatment are waiting in the rescue centre for being rehabilitated in the ‘Safari’. It is also informed that the location of the ‘Tiger Safari’ is at the edge of the buffer zone, abutting the farmlands of the villagers. It is also informed that the topography of Karnashram area of Lansdowne Forest Division was not found suitable for the ‘Tiger Safari’ due to its terrain and the site at Pakhrau was found to be suitable. In any case, the concerned authorities, who have expertise in the matter, have approved the said site at Pakhrau. 114. In these peculiar facts, we are inclined to approve the establishment of the ‘Tiger Safari’ at Pakhrau. However, we find that when the TCP of 2015 itself provided for the establishment of a Rescue Centre- cum-Tiger Safari at a nearby place, there appears to be no logic for establishing a rescue centre at another place.