However, it shall be open to the jurisdictional Magistrate to require the production of accused under Section 267(1) for any other purpose mentioned under the said section except for the purpose of remanding him to police or judicial custody. [See: Tusharbhai Rajnikantbhai Shah v. State of Gujarat, reported in 2024 SCC OnLine SC 1897] 56. We would also like to observe that contrary to the submission of the appellant that grant of anticipatory bail to the accused would prevent the investigating authorities from conducting investigation and discoveries, etc., it is always open to the concerned investigating officer to apply before the Magistrate in whose custody the accused is in relation to a different offence, seeking permission of such Magistrate to interrogate the accused in relation to the particular offence which he is investigating. 57. It was also submitted by the appellant that as the object of Section 438 of the CrPC was to prevent an accused from the humiliation of arrest, the protective cover of the provision would not include within its ambit a person who is already in custody. In other words, a person once arrested in relation to an offence, cannot be said to suffer further humiliation for any subsequent arrest which may take place, and thus, the relief of anticipatory bail should not be made available to a person who is already in custody. 58. We are unable to accept the aforesaid contention of the appellant. Each arrest a person faces compounds their humiliation and ignominy. We say so because each subsequent arrest underscores a 306 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports continued or escalating involvement in legal troubles that can erode the dignity of the person and their public standing. The initial arrest itself often brings a wave of social stigma and personal distress, as the individual struggles with the implications of their legal predicament. When a subsequent arrest occurs, it intensifies this emotional and social burden, amplifying the perception of their criminality and reinforcing negative s from society. Subsequent arrest in relation to different offences, while the individual is in custody in a particular offence, further alienates the individual from their community and adversely affects their personal integrity. For this reason, it is incorrect to assume that subsequent arrests diminish the level of humiliation. On the contrary, each additional arrest exacerbates the person’s shame making the cumulative impact of such legal entanglements increasingly devastating. iii. Illustrative Examples 59. The discrimination that would be caused if the submissions canvassed on behalf of the appellant were to be accepted can be understood with the aid of the following illustrations: Illustration A (1) ‘A’ is in custody for a case under Section 420 of the IPC, and is enlarged on bail on a particular date. On the same day, ‘A’s’ wife registers a case under Section 498A IPC against him. Here, if the appellant’s argument is accepted, ‘A’ would be able to apply for anticipatory bail. (2) ‘B’ is in custody under Section 420 of the IPC, and he has applied for bail.