In other words, the offences alleged with respect to the two FIRs (not taken into consideration) were not committed within the Commissionerate limits of the Detaining Authority. This is suggestive of the fact that the detaining authority took into consideration the “history- sheet” of the detenu without recording any subjective satisfaction that such habituality has created a “public dis”. Merely, because the appellant detenu has been charged for multiple offences it cannot be said that he is in the habit of committing such offences. Habituality of committing offences cannot, in isolation, be taken as a basis of any detention ; rather it has to be tested on the matrices of public . 13. In such circumstances referred to above, the learned counsel prayed that the impugned and passed by the High Court be set side and as a consequence, the impugned of preventive detention may also be quashed and set aside and the authorities concerned may be directed to release the appellant detenu forthwith from the detention. D. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS 14. Mr. Kumar Vaibhav, the learned counsel appearing for the respondent made the following submissions: a. No error much less an error of law could be said to have been committed by the High Court in passing the impugned and . b. The of preventive detention came to be passed by the Detaining Authority after due consideration of the entire material placed before him in the form of FIRs, CCTV camera footage, statements of various witnesses recorded in the course of the investigations, confessions of the appellant detenu before the 1204 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports police as regards the alleged crime, etc. It cannot be said that there was no material worth the name before the Detaining Authority to arrive at the subjective satisfaction that the activities of the appellant detenu are prejudicial. c. Indulging repeatedly, in the activity of snatching of gold chains from the necks of women folk has created an atmosphere of panic and scare in the locality. 15. In such circumstances referred to above, the learned counsel prayed that there being no merit in this appeal, the same may be dismissed. E. ANALYSIS 16. Having heard the learned counsel appearing for the parties and having gone through the materials on record the only question that falls for our consideration is whether the High Court committed any error in rejecting the writ petition filed by the appellant detenu and thereby affirming the of preventive detention passed by the Detaining Authority? 17. Section 2(a) of the Act 1986 reads thus: “(a) “acting in any manner prejudicial to the maintenance of public ” means when a boot-legger, a dacoit, a drug-offender, a goonda, an immoral traffic offender, Land- Grabber, a Spurious Seed Offender, an Insecticide Offender, a Fertiliser Offender, a Food Adulteration Offender, a Fake Document Offender, a Scheduled Commodities Offender, a Forest Offender, a Gaming Offender, a Sexual Offender, an Explosive Substances Offender, an Arms Offender, a Cyber Crime Offender and a White Collar or Financial Offender is engaged or is making preparations for engaging, in any of his activities as such, which affect adversely, or are likely to affect adversely, the maintenance of public : Explanation:- For the purpose of this clause public shall be deemed to have been affected adversely or shall be deemed likely to be affected adversely inter alia, if any of the activities of any of the persons referred to in this clause directly, or indirectly, is causing or calculated to cause any harm, danger or alarm or a feeling of insecurity among the general public or any section thereof or a grave wide-spread danger to life or public health” [2024] 3 S.C.R.