2339 Ramachandra Reddy (Dead) Thr. LRs. & Ors. v. Ramulu Ammal (Dead) Thr. LRs. 2/3rd right leaving 1/3rd to Markendeyan son of our elder brother. This settlement deed has been executed by us with all our consent and good faith and bonafidely. xxxLeft hand Thumb impression of Baghi Reddy and Left hand thumb impression of Renga Reddy. Sd. Witnesses.” 12. Although submissions have been advanced by learned senior counsel for the parties on a variety of issues, in our considered view, the scope for interference of this Court is limited only to the question as formulated in para 10. 13. The dispute, as is evident from the above, hinges on whether the deed executed granting Govindammal 2/3rd share of the property is a gift deed or a settlement deed. In making such a determination, it is imperative to examine the meaning of ‘gift’ and ‘settlement’. The Transfer of Property Act, 18823 defines ‘gift’ as: – 122. “Gift” defined.—“Gift” is the transfer of certain existing moveable or immoveable property made voluntarily and without consideration, by one person, called the donor, to another, called the donee, and accepted by or on behalf of the donee. Acceptance when to be made.—Such acceptance must be made during the lifetime of the donor and while he is still capable of giving. If the donee dies before acceptance, the gift is void. The term ‘settlement’ does not find a place in the TPA. It is defined under the Indian Stamp Act, 1899. Section 2 (24) reads: – Settlement.—“Settlement” means any non-testamentary disposition, in writing, of movable or immovable property made— (a) in consideration of marriage, (b) for the purpose of distributing property of the settlor among his family or those for whom he desires 3 Hereafter, TPA 2340 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports to provide, or for the purpose of providing for some person dependent on him, or (c) for any religious or charitable purpose; ‘disposition’ for reference, means a devise “intended to comprehend a mode by which property can pass, whether by act of parties or by an act of the law” and “includes transfer and charge of property”.4 14. Disagreeing with the Courts below, the High Court held that the deed executed was, in fact, a gift deed. The reasoning in this regard is: – “20. From a conspectus, therefore, of the definitions contained in the dictionaries and the books regarding a gift or an adequate consideration, the inescapable conclusion that follows is that “consideration” means a reasonable equivalent or other valuable benefit passed on by the promisor to the promise or by the transferor to the transferee. Similarly, when the word “consideration” is qualified by the word adequate it makes consideration stronger so as to make it sufficient and valuable having regard to the facts, and circumstances of the case. It has also been seen from the discussions of the various authorities mentioned above that a gift is undoubtedly a transfer which does not contain any element of consideration in any shape or form.