Article 28(1) states that no religious instruction shall be provided in any educational institution wholly maintained out of State funds. Article 28(3) provides that no person who is attending any educational institution recognised by the state or receiving aid out of state funds shall be compelled to take part in religious instruction or attend religious worship without their consent. The corollary to this provision is that religious instruction may be imparted in an educational institution which is recognized by the state, or which receives state aid but no student can be compelled to participate in religious instruction in such an institution. However, the dissemination of religious instruction does not change its fundamental character as an institution that imparts education. To read Entry 25, List III in the manner proposed by the respondent, would render it inapplicable to all legislation which deal with any institution “established and administered” by minorities, which may provide some religious instruction. This runs contrary to the constitutional scheme in Article 30, which recognizes the right of minorities to establish and administer educational institutions. Merely because an educational institution is run by a minority or even a majority community and professes some of its teachings, does not mean that the teachings in such institutions fall outside the ambit of the term “education”. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 417 Anjum Kadari & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. 87. In fact, reference was made to an eleven-judge bench of this Court in T.M.A. Pai Foundation v. State of Karnataka,111 on the “scope of the right of minorities to establish and administer educational institutions of their choice under Article 30(1) read with Article 29(2)” in view of the inclusion of Entry 25 in List III of the seventh schedule.112 One of the questions before this Court was whether the “minority status” of an institution under Article 30(1) would be determined with the unit being the state or the entire country, since both the state and the union can legislate on the subject of “education”. Therefore, it is beyond the pale of doubt that the regulation of minority institutions was assumed to fall within the ambit of Entry 25, List III by an eleven- judge bench of this Court. 88. Further, Entry 25, List III itself provides specific carve-outs. The entry is subject to entries 63, 64, 65 and 66 of List I. None of these entries in the Union List seek to regulate ‘religious education’. Further, Mr Guru Krishna Kumar, Senior Counsel has not indicated any other entry in List I with which there is a conflict so as to indicate that the legislation is a “colourable legislation” within the competence of the Parliament and not within the competence of the state legislature. 89. With respect to the concurrent exercise of power by the State Legislature and the Parliament with respect to matters in List III (the Concurrent List), the Constitution also provides for the doctrine of repugnancy to resolve inconsistencies between laws made by the Parliament and the state legislatures.113 In such cases, the law made by the State legislature gives way to the law made by the Parliament, subject to certain exceptions.114 In the present instance, the question of repugnancy does not even arise as there is no central law which purports to regulate the functioning of Madarsas.