Therefore, it would be unjustifiable for a Court of Equity to confer a remedy on a party who knocks its doors when his acts would indicate a waiver of such a right. By his conduct, he has put the other party in a particular position, and therefore, it would be unreasonable to facilitate a challenge before the court. Thus, a man responsible for his conduct on equity is not expected to be allowed to avail a remedy.” Civil Appeal No.8072 of 2010 33. Finally, in paras 37 and 38, it was observed as under : “37. We have already dealt with the principles of law that may have a bearing on this case. … there was an unexplained and studied reluctance to raise the issue .... 38. ….Hence, on the principle governing delay, laches … Respondent No. 1 ought not to have been granted any relief by invoking Article 226 of the Constitution of India.” 34. If the aforesaid principles of law are applied in the facts of the case in hand from the table of list of dates as available in para no. 12, it is evident that there is huge delay on the part of the respondents to avail of their appropriate remedy.” 18.2 It may also be noticed that the original Essentiality Certificate and Sponsorship Letter were with respect to setting up an educational institution in Jasola Area. The said certificates and the requirements were area specific. On the basis of an Essentiality Certificate and Sponsorship Letter for Jasola Area, no allotment could have been proposed for Vasant Kunj area. Complaint had already been made prior to the in-principle approval and had substance. Apparently for the same reason, the note was made below the in-principle 468 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports approval that further process to take place after verification of the complaint. It may be noted here that the Essentiality Certificate, the Sponsorship Letter and the allotment letter are to be carried out by three different authorities. The last of the three stages i.e. allotment was to be carried out by appellant. However, only upon fulfilment of the conditions as provided under the relevant rules and the policy. The appellant could not be compelled to make an allotment where the essential and mandatory conditions were not fulfilled, as in the case at hand. The High Court fell in error in not correctly appreciating this aspect of the matter. 18.3 The fact that Jasola and Vasant Kunj fall in different areas or zones is admitted by the Society in as much as it had separately applied for Essentiality Certificate for Vasant Kunj, which was also granted in 2004. The appellant has specifically stated that Jasola area was in Zone 25 (now Zone 29) whereas Vasant Kunj area was in Zone 20. The High Court thus committed an error in treating them to be in the same Zone without any basis. 18.4 The policy decision taken on 15.12.2003 clearly mentioned that allotment of land would be made through auction and also included those cases where allotment was yet to be made.