12. The offences and penalties are contained in Chapter IX. Sub-Section 1 of Section 48 lays down how any article of food can be rendered injurious to health. Sub-Section 1 of Section 48 reads thus: “(1) A person may render any article of food injurious to health by means of one or more of the following operations, namely: — (a) adding any article or substance to the food; (b) using any article or substance as an ingredient in the preparation of the food; (c) abstracting any constituents from the food; or (d) subjecting the food to any other process or treatment, with the knowledge that it may be sold or offered for sale or distributed for human consumption.” Thus, if a person knows that a particular article of food is being offered for sale or distribution for human consumption and adds any adulterant (article or substance) to the food, he renders the food article injurious to health. In Chapter IX, Sections 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57 and 58 deal with penalties. Sections 59 to 64 and 66 specifically deal with offences. Section 74 of Chapter X empowers the Central Government or State Government to establish Special Courts for the trial of offences relating to grievous injury or death of the consumer for which the punishment of imprisonment is more than 3 years. 13. In sub-Section 3 of Section 34, it is provided that the trial of any offence under the FSSA by the Special Court shall have precedence over the prosecution of any other case against the accused in any other Court. In cases where offences are not triable by the Special Court, under Section 73 of the FSSA, there is a power vesting in the Courts of Judicial Magistrates to try the case summarily by [2024] 2 S.C.R. 753 Ram Nath v. The State of Uttar Pradesh & Ors. following Sections 262 to 265 of the CrPC. Against any decision or of the Special Court, an appeal is provided to the High Court under Section 76. The appeal lies before a bench consisting of at least two Judges. Another salutary provision is Section 77, which prohibits any Court from taking cognizance of the offence under the FSSA after the expiry of a period of one year from the date of the commission of the crime. However, the Commissioner of Food Safety, for reasons recorded, can extend the period from one year to three years. Section 79 of the FSSA overrides Section 29 of CrPC and provides that it shall be lawful for the Court of ordinary jurisdiction to pass any sentence authorised under the FSSA except a sentence of imprisonment for a term exceeding six years in excess of its powers conferred by Section 29 of CrPC. Section 78 provides that at any time during the trial of any offence under the FSSA, when an offence has been alleged to have been committed by any person not being the importer, manufacturer, distributor or dealer, based on evidence adduced before it, the Court has the power to proceed against the importer, manufacturer, distributor or dealer.