1608 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 9. It was submitted that the High Court ought to have gone into the aspect as to whether any offence at all was made out and quashed the criminal complaint. It was further submitted that given the nature of allegations against the appellant herein, it can be noted that the said allegations emanate from the nature of the duties that the appellant carried out on 05.02.2007 inasmuch as the demolition of the illegal construction was carried out on the said date which neither can be termed to be an instance of “excess” in the discharge of her duties nor can it be said that there was a criminal intent on the part of the appellant herein. The appellant had simply performed her duties as per the instructions of her superior officers. 10. It was therefore submitted that the sanction for prosecution within the scope and ambit of Section 197 of the CrPC, which is a mandatory requirement, had to be taken from the State Government before the initiation of criminal proceedings even though the criminal proceedings in the instant case is under Section 200 of the CrPC by way of a private complaint. In this regard our attention was also drawn to Sections 20 and 21 of the Act to contend that no suit, prosecution and other legal proceedings would lie against any person in respect of anything which has been done in good faith or intended to be done in pursuance of the Act or the rules made thereunder. Further, no Civil Court would have any jurisdiction to entertain or decide any question relating to matters under the Act or the rules made thereunder. It was submitted that the object and purpose of obtaining sanction under Section 197 of the CrPC is in to protect the bona fide acts of officers and officials done during the discharge of their official duties and that the salutary intent of the said provision must be realised and hence, before initiation of any criminal proceeding, the condition precedent of obtaining a sanction is a mandatory requirement and hence, in the instant case the absence of any sanction being issued by the State Government has vitiated the very initiation of the criminal complaint against the appellant herein. In support of this submission, reliance was placed on the following decisions of this Court: (1) D.T. Virupakshappa vs. C. Subhash (2015) 12 SCC 231 (“D.T. Virupakshappa”); (2) Abdul Wahab Ansari vs. State of Bihar (2000) 8 SCC 500 (“Abdul Wahab Ansari”) [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1609 Gurmeet Kaur v. Devender Gupta & Another (3) D. Devaraja vs. Owais Sabeer Hussain (2020) 7 SCC 695 (“D. Devaraja”) (4) Amod Kumar Kanth vs. Association of Victim of Uphaar Tragedy and Anr., Crl. Appeal No.1359/2017 disposed of on 20.04.2023. 11. It was submitted that having regard to the position of law which squarely apply to the facts of the present case, the impugned may be set aside and the initiation of the criminal proceedings against the appellant may be quashed and all consequential s thereby may be quashed.