2019 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. 224. Similarly, The Era University, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh Act, 2016, and its Preamble provides as follows: “Preamble An Act to establish and incorporate a teaching University sponsored by Era Educational Trust duly established and administered by the members of Muslim Minority community..” 225. At the same, time, there were other enactments which claimed to have established and incorporated the Universities and still bestowed them with minority characteristics. For example, in the North East Adventist University Act, 2015, in the Preamble, provides as under: “An Act to establish and incorporate an University in the State, with emphasis on providing high quality education, training and research in the fields of Physical Sciences, Applied Sciences, Life Sciences, Health Sciences, Social Sciences, Bio-Technology, Information Technology, Engineering, Management, Commerce, Communication, Law, Humanities, Languages, Performing Arts and other allied areas, sponsored by the Medical Educational Trust Association Surat of Seventh-day Adventists, and to provide for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.” 226. Similarly, the preamble of The Teerthanker Mahaveer University Act, 2008 reads as under: “An Act to establish and incorporate a Jain Minority Teaching University sponsored by Teerthanker Mahaveer Institute of Management & Technology, Society, Moradabad Uttar Pradesh and to provide for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.” 227. Therefore, the use of the phrase ‘establish and incorporate’ by the Legislature may be relevant in the larger enquiry but cannot be said to be determinative of the factum of establishment or not by the minority community. The question of establishment is to be ascertained by a multitude of factors, and especially in case of Universities – the history of the establishment, the nature of the Act, the nature of the University, etc. and the phrase ‘establish and incorporate’ would be of limited importance only. 2020 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 228. Separately, it is noteworthy that there exist alternative paradigms of universities established by legislative bodies7, which may claim to be minority institutions. 229. The legislative frameworks of statute-based minority Universities were highlighted before this Court, wherein the predominant character of the University is minority-oriented with only peripheral non-minority elements. Therefore, if the intention was to establish or incorporate or recognise a minority University, the Legislatures have incorporated suitable provisions to colour the University with a minority identity. 230. Furthermore, the abovementioned enactments and a perusal of the same underscores that a considerable degree of autonomy was retained by the sponsoring entity, with pivotal decision-making powers vested therein and further in some cases, specific provisions for providing religion-based reservations. 231. The Court may notice another aspect that the 1920 Act in its Preamble provided that it was “An Act to establish and incorporate a teaching and residential Muslim University at Aligarh”. The said recognition is relevant but cannot be the sole basis of enquiry on either side. A Legislature speaks through the enactment and not merely the Preamble, therefore, the contents of the legislation would be primordial source of information for the enquiry. The amendment made to the 1920 Act in 1981, and the deletion of the words ‘establish and’ from the Preamble, cannot therefore alter the pre-existing, pre-occurred factual situation.