It was observed: “15. […] in a country governed by a Federal Constitution, such as the United States of America and the Union of India are, it is by no means easy to amend the Constitution if an erroneous interpretation is put upon it by this Court. (See Article 368 of our Constitution). An erroneous interpretation of the Constitution may quite conceivably be perpetuated or may at any rate 20 [1955] 2 SCR 603 : 1955 SCC OnLine SC 2 494 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports remain unrectified for a considerable time to the great detriment to public well being … There is nothing in our Constitution which prevents us from departing from a previous decision if we are convinced of its error and its baneful effect on the general interests of the public. Article 141 which lays down that the law declared by this Court shall be binding on all courts within the territory of India quite obviously refers to courts other than this Court. The corresponding provision of the Government of India Act, 1935 also makes it clear that the courts contemplated are the subordinate courts.” (emphasis supplied) NH Bhagwati, J also emphasized the distinction between deviating from a decision dealing with the interpretation of statutory provisions and an interpretation of the Constitution, while opining that while an incorrect interpretation of a statute may be corrected by the legislature, it is not as easy to amend the Constitution to correct an unworkable interpretation. Akin to the exposition by SR Das, J, the test to reconsider previous decisions in the opinion of Bhagwati, J is whether the previous decision is “manifestly wrong or erroneous” or “public interest” requires it to be reconsidered. 33. The doctrine of stare decisis provides that the Court should not lightly dissent from precedent. However, this Court has held in a consistent line of cases,21 that the doctrine is not an inflexible rule of law, and it cannot result in perpetuating an error to the detriment of the general welfare of the public. This Court may review its earlier decisions if it believes that there is an error, or the effect of the decision would harm the interests of the public or if “it is inconsistent with the legal philosophy of the Constitution”. In cases involving the interpretation of the Constitution, this Court would do so more readily than in other branches of law because not rectifying a manifest error would be harmful to public interest and the polity. The period of time over which the case has held the field is not of primary consequence. 21 See Sambhu Nath Sarkar v. State of W.B., [1974] 1 SCR 1 : (1973) 1 SCC 856; Lt. Col. Khajoor Singh v. Union of India, [1961] 2 SCR 828; Union of India v. Raghubir Singh, [1989] 3 SCR 316 : (1989) 2 SCC 754; Pradeep Kumar Biswas v. Indian Institute of Chemical Biology, [2002] 3 SCR 100 : (2002) 5 SCC 111; Supreme Court Advocates-on-Record Assn.