The term ‘Merit-cum-Seniority’ in context of 2005 Rules implies that both merit and seniority would be considered in the promotion of a candidate, with merit being determined on the basis of a suitability test. The exact modalities of how merit and seniority are to be apportioned is a legislative function and is to be performed keeping in mind the unique requirements and circumstances of the organization. In the present case, the merit of a candidate is assessed by means of a suitability test, as prescribed under paragraph 27 of the decision in All India Judges’ Association (3) (supra). 133. The contours of the words ‘Merit-cum-Seniority’ are drawn by this Court in the lines immediately following these words. The phrase “for this purpose”, as it appears in paragraph 27 of the aforesaid decision, acts as a bridge between the words – “Merit-cum-Seniority” – their substance. For the purpose of 65% promotional quota, this Court, in the said paragraph, has defined “merit” as the possession of a minimum standard, or suitability. This Court deliberately did not impart any competitive or comparative character to the term and such intention should be kept in mind while interpreting the term ‘Merit-cum-Seniority’ for the purpose of the 65% promotional quota. 134. The suitability test assesses multiple aspects of a candidate’s merit like knowledge of law, quality of s, ACRs, etc. along with the efficiency of the candidate exhibited during the tenure already served. The suitability test is devised in such a manner that all candidates who clear the test can be said to possess more or less the same level of merit. Once a list of all similarly meritorious candidates is prepared, seniority is applied to select the candidates for promotion. Although seniority is applied at the last stage of the selection process, yet merit still plays the pre-dominant role as a candidate who does not possess the necessary suitability becomes ineligible for promotion irrespective of their seniority. 135. We are of the view that it would be incorrect to hold that merely because the test was not one of comparative merit and as seniority was applied at the final stage of the selection process, the process cannot be said to be one not adhering to the principle of ‘Merit-cum- Seniority’. As long as ‘Merit-cum-Seniority’ is applied in the manner it 1142 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports has been explained in the decision in All India Judges’ Association (3) (supra), wherein both merit and seniority are considered, and merit plays the dominant role, the process of promotion cannot be said to be violative of the principle of ‘Merit-cum-Seniority’. The expressions used in the rules should be interpreted bearing in mind the principles enunciated in the aforesaid decision, and not on the basis of the various decisions of this Court that have been decided in entirely different factual situations. Further, if the principle of ‘Merit-cum-Seniority’ is applied as argued by the petitioners, there would necessarily be no difference between the categories of ‘merit’ (10%) and ‘Merit-cum-Seniority’ (65%).