In the of reference dated 1st December 2023, in paragraph 10, this Court observed thus: “10. We have reservations in regard to the correctness of the broad formulations of principle in the above terms. There can be no gainsaying the fact that a stay of an indefinite nature results in prolonging civil or criminal proceedings, as the case may be, unduly. At the same time, it needs to be factored in that the delay is not always on account of conduct of the parties involved. The delay may also be occasioned by the inability of the Court to take up proceedings expeditiously. The principle which 960 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports has been laid down in the above decision to the effect that the stay shall automatically stand vacated (which would mean an automatic vacation of stay without application of judicial mind to whether the stay should or should not be extended further) is liable to result in a serious miscarriage of justice.” (Emphasis added) 5. We are called upon to decide the following questions: - (a) Whether this Court, in the exercise of its jurisdiction under Article 142 of the Constitution of India, can automatic vacation of all interim s of the High Courts of staying proceedings of Civil and Criminal cases on the expiry of a certain period? (b) Whether this Court, in the exercise of its jurisdiction under Article 142 of the Constitution of India, can direct the High Courts to decide pending cases in which interim s of stay of proceedings has been granted on a day-to-day basis and within a fixed period? B. SUBMISSIONS 6. The main submissions were canvassed by Shri Rakesh Dwivedi, the learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant in Criminal Appeal no.3589 of 2023. We are summarising the submissions of Shri Rakesh Dwivedi as follows: a. Automatic Vacation of the interim is in the nature of judicial legislation. This Court cannot engage in judicial legislation; b. Article 226 is a part of the basic structure of the Constitution of India, and it can neither be shut out nor whittled down by the exercise of powers under Articles 141 and 142; c. The High Court is also a constitutional Court which is not judicially subordinate to this Court; d. An granting interim relief cannot be passed without an application of judicial mind. Application of mind is a pre-requisite of judicial decision making. The absence of application of mind would render a decision arbitrary. Similarly, an vacating interim relief cannot be passed without the application of judicial mind; [2024] 2 S.C.R. 961 High Court Bar Association, Allahabad v. State of U.P. & Ors. e. If an interim is to be passed, it should be initially for a short period so that there is an effective opportunity for the respondent to contest the same; f. Two Constitution Benches in the cases of Abdul Rehman Antulay & Ors. v. R.S. Nayak & Anr.3 and P. Ramachandra Rao v. State of Karnataka4 held that it is not permissible for this Court to fix the time limit for completion of a trial; g. No such directions could have been issued in the exercise of the jurisdiction of this Court under Article 142 of the Constitution of India; h. Even under Article 226 (3) of the Constitution, an interim cannot be automatically vacated unless a specific application is made for vacating the interim ; i.