Digital Supreme Court Reports Explanation.- Commodities which are generally the same but differ in weight, measure or volume, appearance or quality are similar but not identical commodities;” Therefore, a package can become a group package, provided it is intended for retail sale. In this case, there is no dispute that the respondent’s poly packs and HDPE bags contain more than 2 individual packages of similar commodities but are not identical in quantity. The question is whether the package made by the respondent was intended for retail sale. 13. Rule 2(x) of the said Rule defines “wholesale package”, which reads thus: “(x) “wholesale package” means a package containing- (i) a number of retail packages, where such first mentioned package is intended for sale, distribution or delivery to an intermediary and is not intended for sale direct to a single consumer; or (ii) a commodity sold to an intermediary in bulk to enable such intermediary to sell, distribute or deliver such commodity to the consumer in smaller quantities; or (iii) packages containing ten or more than ten retail packages provided that the retail packages are labelled as required under the rules.” 14. Now, we turn to the -in-original and the findings recorded therein. The Commissioner held that Rules 6 and 16 form a part of Chapter II of the said Rules and, therefore, apply to the packages intended for retail sale. The Commissioner found that the poly packs contained a declaration in terms of both Rule 6 and Rule 16. The Commissioner referred to the format of declaration to be made under Rule 29, which is a part of Chapter IV of the said Rules, which did not apply to packages intended for retail sale. The Commissioner held that Rule 29 does not require a declaration of sale price on the wholesale package. The Commissioner found that the poly pack containing 33 plus one small packages contained a declaration of the price. Therefore, the Commissioner held that the poly packs were intended for retail sale. Otherwise, there was no reason to mention MRP on the poly packs. The Commissioner held that the intention to [2024] 7 S.C.R. 125 Commissioner of Central Excise, Jaipur -II v. M/s Miraj Products Pvt. Ltd. make retail sale of the poly packs was clear, and, therefore, whether poly packs were sold by way of retail sale was irrelevant. 15. As noted earlier, in view of sub-section (1) of Section 4A, the question is whether there is any requirement in the said Rules to declare the retail sale price of the commodity on the package. What is relevant is whether the package is of such nature that attracts any of the provisions of the said Rules, which mandatorily require the mention of retail price on the package. In case of a package that does not attract provisions of the said Rules regarding mentioning the retail price, even if the retail price is mentioned on the package, that itself will not attract sub-section (1) of Section 4A of the Excise Act.