Against the aforesaid, the Borrower filed a writ petition before the High Court for seeking redemption of mortgage which was allowed. The same came to be challenged before this Court in the Main Appeals, wherein only the right of redemption in terms of Section 13 sub-section (8) of the SARFAESI Act was decided. Thus, the very proceedings before this Court in the Main Appeals emanated from an interlocutory stage and all other issues except the right of redemption continued to [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1655 Celir LLP v. Mr. Sumati Prasad Bafna & Ors. survive in the S.A. No. 46 of 2022. As a fortiorari, it was submitted that if the Borrower had not filed the writ petition which culminated into the proceedings before this Court in the Main Appeals, then the petitioner would have never claimed that DRT cannot examine the validity of the auction. Thus, it was submitted that this Court never intended to take away the aforesaid right of the Borrower to contest S.A. No.46 of 2022 before the DRT. 79. He further submitted that this Court whilst directing the Bank to issue the Sale Certificate in the Main Appeals never intended to uphold the legality of the auction, and that no such issue was also framed by it. Since, the terms of auction were clear that it would be subject to the outcome of the proceedings in S.A. No. 46 of 2022 before the DRT, the issuance of the Sale Certificate neither confirms the sale of the secured asset in favour of the petitioner sans the validity of the auction proceedings nor vests any absolute ownership in the same. In this regard, reliance has been placed on the decision of this Court in Valji Khimji (supra) to contend that where the auction is subject to subsequent confirmation by some authority (in this case the DRT) the auction cannot be said to be completed and no rights would accrue until the sale is confirmed by the said authority. Thus, it was submitted that not only does the cause of action for challenging the validity of the auction proceedings survive but also the proceedings in S.A. No. 46 of 2022 pending before the DRT. 80. In the last, Dr. A.M. Singhvi submitted that the Borrower unconditionally apologises to this Court for any of its actions, if they are perceived to be incorrect or in contempt of its decision in the Main Appeal and that the Borrower undertakes to comply with any further that this Court may deem fit and proper for the ends of justice. iii. Submissions of the Subsequent Transferee/the respondent nos. 2 & 4. 81. Mr. Kapil Sibal, the learned Senior Counsel appearing for the Subsequent Transferee at the outset submitted that it unconditionally apologizes for any of its actions that might have been perceived to have contravened any direction/ of this Court. 82. Mr. Sibal submitted that the Subsequent Transferee is a bona fide third party purchaser of the Secured Asset. He submitted that 1656 [2024] 12 S.C.R.