Thus, a bare perusal of Section 376 AB, IPC would reveal that imprisonment for life thereunder means imprisonment for the remainder of the convict’s natural life and the minimum term of imprisonment under the Section is 20 years. Now, while considering the question whether further interference with the sentence handed down for the conviction of the offence under Section 376 AB, IPC is warranted, it is only appropriate to refer to a decision of this Court in Shiva Kumar @ Shiva @ Shivamurthy v. State of Karnataka5. In Shiva Kumar’s case (supra) this Court referred to the decision of a Constitution Bench of this Court in Union of India v. V. Sriharan alias Murugan and Ors.6 and also the decision in Swamy Shraddananda (2) alias Murali Manohar Mishra v. State of Karnataka7. Evidently, this Court in V. Sriharan’s case (supra), upon considering the question whether imprisonment for life in terms of Section 53 read with Section 45 IPC means imprisonment for rest of life of the prisoner or a convict undergoing life imprisonment has a right to claim remission, held after referring to the decision in Swamy Shraddananda (2) (supra) that the power derived from the Penal Code for any modified punishment within the punishment provided for in the Penal Code for any specified offence could only be exercised by the High Court and in the event of further appeal only by the Supreme Court. Furthermore, in paragraph 105 of the said decision it was held:- “to put it differently, the power to impose 5 [2023] 4 SCR 669 : (2023) 9 SCC 817 6 [2015] 14 SCR 613 : (2016) 7 SCC 1 7 [2008] 11 SCR 93 : (2008) 13 SCC 767 [2024] 1 S.C.R. 119 Bhaggi @ Bhagirath @ Naran v. The State of Madhya Pradesh modified punishment providing for any specific term of incarceration or till the end of the convict’s life as an alternate to death penalty, can be exercised only by the High Court and the Supreme Court and not by any other inferior Court.” In Shiva Kumar’s case (supra) this Court further took note of what was held by the Constitution Bench in V. Sriharan’s case (supra) paragraph 104 as well, which reads thus: - “104. That apart, in most of such cases where death penalty or life imprisonment is the punishment imposed by the trial court and confirmed by the Division Bench of the High Court, the convict concerned will get an opportunity to get such verdict tested by filing further appeal by way of special leave to this Court. By way of abundant caution and as per the prescribed law of the Code and the criminal jurisprudence, we can assert after the initial finding of guilt of such specified grave offences and the imposition of penalty either death or life imprisonment, when comes under the scrutiny of the Division Bench of the High Court, it is only the High Court which derives the power under the Penal Code, which prescribes the capital and alternate punishment, to alter the said punishment with one either for the entirety of the convict’s life or for any specific period of more than 14 years, say 20, 30 or so on depending upon the gravity of the crime committed and the exercise of judicial conscience befitting such offence found proved to have been committed.” 13.