That was not done. The alleged lessee cannot plead ignorance about the knowledge of the Writ Petition as the interim s were passed in the Writ Petition after hearing his sons. The alleged lessee and his sons were together, and the same counsel represented them even before this Court. The passed by the State Government of conversion is a covert method of defeating the High Court’s interim of 18th July 1996. 15. Now, we come to the school’s argument to restore the earlier of 1995 accepting the bid offered by it. We must note that more than 20 years have passed since the auction. During this period, the property prices in Lucknow must have been substantially increased. Even assuming that the learned senior counsel appearing for the school is right in contending that illegality has been committed by [2024] 8 S.C.R. 33 City Montessori School v. State of U.P. & Ors. setting aside the highest bid of the school, now it will be unjust to restore the of acceptance of the bid passed in favour of the school, about 20 years back. If, at this stage, the school is allowed to purchase the plot at the price offered by the school 20 years back, the sale will not be fair, as it is a property of the State. 16. Therefore, in our view, the impugned of the High Court, by which the of conversion and the deed of conversion in favour of the alleged lessee were set aside, calls for no interference. 17. We, therefore, dismiss both the appeals. Whether the lease claimed by the alleged lessee is valid and subsisting and whether the plot can be put to auction are the questions left open which can be agitated by the parties in appropriate proceedings. However, the alleged lessee shall not be dispossessed without due process of law. It is for the State Government to decide, whether it is permissible to put the plot to fresh auction in the light of the current policies/laws prevailing. It will be open to the school to apply for a refund of the money paid towards the bid amount. It will also be open to the alleged lessee to apply for a refund of the amount paid for converting the plot from leasehold to freehold. The State Government/authority will issue the necessary refund within six weeks of making such applications. 18. There will be no as to costs. Result of the case: Appeals dismissed. †Headnotes prepared by: Prastut Mahesh Dalvi, Hony. Associate Editor (Verified by: Abhinav Mukerji, Sr. Adv.)