Can heinous crimes, inter alia, against women permit remission of the convicts by a reduction in their sentence and by granting them liberty? These are the issues which arise in these writ petitions. With the aforesaid philosophical preface, we proceed to consider these writ petitions, both on maintainability as well as on merits purely from a legal perspective. Details of the writ petitioners: 2. These writ petitions have been filed assailing the s dated 10.08.2022, granting remission and early release of respondent Nos.3 to 13 in Writ Petition (Crl.) No.491 of 2022 (which petition shall be considered to be the lead petition), who were all convicted, having been found guilty of committing heinous crimes during the large-scale riots in Gujarat on 28.02.2002 and a few days thereafter which occurred in the aftermath of the burning of the train incident in Godhra in the State of Gujarat on 27.02.2002. 2.1. The grotesque and diabolical crime in question was driven by communal hatred and resulted in twelve convicts, amongst many others, brutally gang-raping the petitioner in Writ Petition (Crl.) No.491 of 2022, namely, Bilkis Yakub Rasool, who was pregnant at that time. Further, the petitioner’s mother was gang raped and murdered, her cousin who had just delivered a baby was also gang raped and murdered. Eight minors including the petitioner’s cousin’s two-day-old infant were also murdered. The petitioner’s three-year-old daughter was murdered by smashing her head on a rock, her two minor brothers, two minor sisters, her phupha, phupi, mama(uncle, aunt and uncle respectively) and three-cousins were all murdered. 762 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 2.2. While eventually, the perpetrators of the crime, including the police personnel were convicted and sentenced, the petitioner, who was aged twenty-one years and pregnant at that time, having lost all members of her family in the diabolical and brutal attacks, has once again approached this Court seeking justice by challenging the en-masse remission granted to respondent Nos.3 to 13. Bilkis Yakub Rasool, being an unfortunate victim of the heinous crimes hereinabove narrated, has filed the present writ petition under Article 32 of the Constitution of India, seeking issuance of a writ, or direction quashing the s dated 10.08.2022 passed by the State of Gujarat by which the convicts in Sessions Case No.634 of 2004, Mumbai (respondent Nos.3 to 13 herein), whose convictions were upheld by a Division Bench of the Bombay High Court and thereafter by this Court, have been released prematurely. 2.3. Writ Petition (Crl.) No.352 of 2022 titled Dr. Meeran Chadha Borwankar vs. State of Gujarat has been preferred by a former woman police officer, a woman bureaucrat who had served in the Indian Foreign Service and an academic, seeking, inter alia, the setting aside of the remission s dated 10.08.2022. The petitioners by way of the writ petition have also sought a writ or in the nature of mandamus directing that the States must endeavour to have a pluralistic composition in Jail Advisory Committees, adequately representing the diverse nature of our society.