Digital Supreme Court Reports the Act as delineated in its various provisions of the 1949 Act, vide Section 15. The power vested in the Council is general insofar as the carrying out the provision of the Act is concerned and in particular and without prejudice to the generality of the aforesaid powers, certain duties have been specifically delineated. This is evident on a reading of sub-sections (1) and (2) of Section 15 of the 1949 Act. One of the objects of the 1949 Act is to ensure that the profession of the Chartered Accountant in the country maintains high professional ethics and renders quality service inasmuch as Chartered Accountants are absolutely necessary for the efficient tax administration in the country. That on account of their services, the onerous duties cast on the assessing officer as well as the ITD is reduced. This would however depend upon the quality of service that is rendered by the Chartered Accountant as a professional for which regulation of the profession is necessary and the respondent-Institute has been established for, inter alia, such regulation of the profession. 13.1 In this context, Chapter V of the 1949 Act assumes importance. The said Chapter deals with misconduct. Section 22 of the Act defines “professional or other misconduct” to deem to include any act or omission provided in any of the Schedules. However, nothing in Section 22 shall be construed to limit or abridge in any way the power conferred or duty cast on the Director (Discipline) under sub-section (1) of Section 21 to inquire into the conduct of any member of the Institute under any other circumstances. The two prongs of Section 22 are expansive and wide inasmuch as there is no limitation in any way on the power conferred or duty cast on the Director (Discipline) under Sub-section (1) of Section 21 to inquire into the conduct of any member of the Institute under circumstances other than what is stated in the Schedules. Also, professional or other misconduct is defined by a deeming provision which implies that the Schedules which have enumerated various kinds of misconducts are not exhaustive or static. With the passage of decades and with the emerging varieties of misdemeanour, omissions or commissions of Chartered Accountants which are not in consonance with professional ethics and would amount to misconduct can be defined under the Schedules so as to ensure quality service being rendered by the Chartered Accountants as professionals. Therefore, the deeming provision [2024] 6 S.C.R. 839 Shaji Poulose v. Institute of Chartered Accountants of India & Others would imply that with the passage of time, there could be newer misconducts which could be included in the Schedules in the form of regulations or Guidelines. The Schedules are a part of the 1949 Act which has been passed by the Parliament. But bearing in mind the fact that in future, it may not always be possible for the Parliament to go on amending the Schedules to the Act so as to incorporate newer professional misconducts particularly with emerging technology and its applicability to the profession of Chartered Accountancy in India, Part II of Second Schedule by way of a foresight has delegated the power to the Council to make any regulation or Guideline, the breach of which would amount to a misconduct.