2016 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports to ‘intoxicating liquor’. However, it must be noted that the provision deals with both ‘alcoholic liquor’ and ‘intoxicating drugs’. 90. The approach adopted in the 1935 Act differed from the 1919 Act. Entry 45 of List I of the Seventh Schedule to the 1935 Act stipulated the federal domain over duties of excise. It is reproduced below: “45. Duties of excise on tobacco and other goods manufactured or produced in India except — (a) alcoholic liquor for human consumption; (b) opium, Indian hand and other narcotic drugs and narcotics; non-narcotic drugs; (c) medicinal and toilet preparations containing alcohol or any substance included in sub-paragraph (b) of this entry.” 91. Alcoholic liquor for human consumption was among the three categories which was excluded from the ambit of legislative competence of the Federal legislature. Entries 31 and 40 of List II of the Seventh Schedule to the 1935 Act stipulated the Provincial legislative domain over intoxicating liquors and narcotics, and duties of excise respectively. They are reproduced below: “31. Intoxicating liquors and narcotic drugs, that is to say, the production, manufacture, possession, transport, purchase and sale of intoxicating liquors, opium and other narcotic drugs, but subject, as respects opium, to the provisions of List I and, as respects poisons and dangerous drugs, to the provisions of List III. … 40. Duties of excise on the following goods manufactured or produced in the Province and countervailing duties at the same or lower rates on similar goods manufactured or produced elsewhere in India- (a) alcoholic liquors for human consumption; (b) opium, Indian hemp and other narcotic drugs and narcotics; non-narcotic drugs; (c) medicinal and toilet preparations containing alcohol or any substance included in sub-paragraph (b) of this entry.” (emphasis supplied) [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2017 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons 92. The three categories which were excluded from duties of excise on goods produced or manufactured in India (in Entry 45 of List I) were incorporated in Entry 40 of List II. Thus, duties of excise on alcoholic liquors for human consumption was a subject assigned to the Provinces. The following changes on the legislative scope on ‘alcoholic liquors’ were introduced in the 1935 Act: a. Taxation and regulation were placed in separate entries. Entry 40 of List II concerned duties of excise, inter alia, on ‘alcoholic liquors for human consumption.’ On the other hand, Entry 31 of List II covered the regulation of ‘intoxicating liquors’ and other substances; b. The Federal legislature could levy duties of excise on tobacco and other goods manufactured in India but not on alcoholic liquor for human consumption, medicinal and toilet preparations containing alcohol, and other specified goods; c. The Provincial legislatures could levy duties of excise on alcoholic liquor for human consumption, medicinal and toilet preparations containing alcohol, and other specified goods produced in the province; and d. Entry 31 of List II was a regulatory entry covering intoxicating liquors and narcotic drugs and the production, manufacture, possession, transport, purchase and sale of intoxicating liquors, opium and other narcotic drugs.