8. Now, we come to the other circumstances against the appellant. In paragraph 15.5 of the charge sheet, it is alleged that the appellant shifted certain items from the first floor before the raid was conducted on 11th July 2022. In the discovery statement of the appellant relied upon by the respondent in its counter, the appellant stated that he had kept items like gas cylinders, etc., in the first floor premises, which he removed. 9. In the raid on the first floor premises on 11th July 2022, certain documents were recovered as stated in paragraph 17.1 of the charge sheet. No recovery has been shown from the appellant. The charge sheet describes in detail the contents of the document styled “India 2047 Towards Rule of Islamic India”. It is alleged in the charge sheet that the scrutiny of the said documents revealed that the said documents were about establishing Islamic rule in India. It is pertinent to note that there is no mention in the charge sheet about the nature of the articles allegedly shifted earlier by the appellant from the first floor premises. If the appellant intended to shift incriminating material circulated by PFI, he would have shifted the material mentioned in paragraph 17.1 of the charge sheet. A statement by Syed Abu Monawwar discloses that there were commercial premises, such as shops, pathology labs, etc., on the ground floor of the said building. If the appellant intended to allow the conduct of the objectionable activities of PFI by giving first floor premises on rent, he would not have installed CCTV cameras. 10. Now, we turn to the circumstance relied upon by learned ASG, which is in paragraph 17.16. Paragraph 17.16 purports to reproduce what protected witness Z stated. We again reproduce the said paragraph, which reads thus: “17.16 Protected witness-“Z” further stated that on 29th May 2022, a meeting cum training was organized in Ahmad Palace, Phulwarisharif Parna, a rented accommodation arranged by Athar Parvej (A-1) and others in this criminal conspiracy. This meeting was chaired by Riyaz Firangipet (A-20) of Karnataka and approximate 40-45 persons [2024] 8 S.C.R. 641 Jalaluddin Khan v. Union of India including Mahboob Alam Nadvi (A-7), Sanaullah (A-5), Riyaz Mourif (A-4), Mehboob-Ur-Rehman (A-11), Ehsan Parvez (A-7), Ansarul Huque (A-21), Riyaz Ahmed (A-17), Perwez Alam (A-26), Tausif Alam (A-6), Athar Parvej (A-1), Md. Jalaluddin (A-2) and others, who are associated with PFI, attended this meeting. During this meeting, the points related to expansion of organisation, basic and advance training of PFI members, Muslim empowerment and future plan of PFI were discussed. Protected Witness-Z also stated that after the remark of Nupur Sharma on Prophet Mohammad, directions were given to the trained PFI cadres to attack and kill selected targets who were involved in making derogatory remarks against Islam.” Thus, paragraph 17.16 purports to reproduce the statement of protected witness Z. In terms of our earlier , the translated version of the statement of protected witness Z, recorded before the Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate, Patna, has been produced in a sealed envelope.