Justice Tulzapurkar authored a dissenting opinion, striking down the legislation as unconstitutional and held that the Act did not give effect to the principles in Articles 39(b) and (c) so as to be saved by Article 31C. 185. The opinion of the majority authored by Justice Krishna Iyer held that a law that inhibits the concentration of urban land in the hands of a few and ensures equitable distribution falls within the ambit of Article 39(b) and (c). He observed: “10. […]Article 39(b) and (c) of the Constitution are directly attracted and there is no doubt that the fullest exploitation of the material resources of the community undoubtedly requires distribution of urban land geared to the common good. It is also a notorious fact that concentration of urban land in private hands is an effective forbiddance of the maximum use of such land for industrial purposes at a critical juncture when the nation is fighting for survival through industrialisation. 132 Maharao Sahib Shri Bhim Singhji v. Union of India (1986) 4 SCC 615 [2024] 11 S.C.R. 159 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. It needs no argument to conclude that the objective of the legislation as set out in the long title and in the statutory scheme is implementation of Part IV of the Constitution. The directive principles of State Policy being paramount in character and fundamental in the country’s governance, distributive justice envisaged in Article 39(b) and (c) has a key role in the developmental process of the socialist republic that India has adopted. […] 11. The taking over of large conglomerations of vacant land is a national necessity if Article 39 is a constitutional reality. “Law can never be higher than the economic and the cultural development of society brought to pass by that economic .” (Marx). Therefore, if Article 38 of the Constitution which speaks of a social informed by economic justice, is to materialise, law must respond effectively and rise to the needs of the transformation envisioned by the founding fathers. […]” 186. Although Justice Krishna Iyer did not cite his concurring judgement in Ranganatha Reddy, he made certain observations which may help contextualise his observations on Article 39(b) in Ranganatha Reddy. He observed that the acquisition of private resources by the state to favour another private owner is not within the scheme of Article 39(b). In some circumstances, according to Justice Krishna Iyer, even a private industry may serve the common good and certain professions and industries may remain in private hands, “in the transitional stage of our pluralist economy undergoing a fabian transformation”. “16-A. […] It is not and never can be compulsory taking from some private owners to favour by transfer other private owners. The prevalent pathology of corrupt use of public power cannot be assumed by the court lest the same charge be levelled against its echelons. The wide definition of “industry” or the use of general words like ‘any person” and “any purpose” cannot free the whole clause from the inarticulate major premise that only a public purpose to subserve the common good and filling the bill of Article 39(b) and (c) will be permissible.