Supply of copies of statements and documents to accused in other cases triable by Court of Session.- Where, in a case instituted otherwise than on a police report, it appears to the Magistrate issuing process under section 204 that the offence is triable exclusively by the Court of Session, the Magistrate shall without delay furnish to the accused, free of cost, a copy of each of the following: [2024] 5 S.C.R. 651 Sunita Devi v. The State of Bihar & Anr. (i) the statements recorded under section 200 or section 202, of all persons examined by the Magistrate; (ii) the statements and confessions, if any, recorded under section 161 or section 164; (iii) any documents produced before the Magistrate on which the prosecution proposes to rely: Provided that if the Magistrate is satisfied that any such document is voluminous, he shall, instead of furnishing the accused with a copy thereof, direct that he will only be allowed to inspect it either personally or through pleader in Court.” Section 209 of the CrPC, 1973 “209. Commitment of case to Court of Session when offence is triable exclusively by it.- When in a case instituted on a police report or otherwise, the accused appears or is brought before the Magistrate and it appears to the Magistrate that the offence is triable exclusively by the Court of Session, he shall— (a) commit, after complying with the provisions of Section 207 or Section 208, as the case may be, the case to the Court of Session, and subject to the provisions of this Code relating to bail, remand the accused to custody until such commitment has been made; (b) subject to the provisions of this Code relating to bail, remand the accused to custody during, and until the conclusion of, the trial; (c) send to that Court the record of the case and the documents and articles, if any, which are to be produced in evidence; (d) notify the Public Prosecutor of the commitment of the case to the Court of Session.” Section 238 of the CrPC, 1973 “238. Compliance with Section 207. When, in any warrant-case instituted on a police report, the accused appears or is brought before a Magistrate 652 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports at the commencement of the trial, the Magistrate shall satisfy himself that he has complied with the provisions of Section 207.” 14. To understand these provisions, one has to go back to the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (hereinafter referred to as the “CrPC, 1898”). Section 173 of the CrPC, 1898 fixes the responsibility on the officer in charge of police station to serve a copy of the report of the Police Officer and of the First Information Report, along with the requisite documents, on the accused. As per Section 207A of the CrPC, 1898 a Magistrate shall, after the commencement of the inquiry, satisfy himself that there was due compliance of Section 173 of the CrPC 1898 by furnishing all the requisite documents on the accused.