Given that the legislature has prescribed preconditions to prevent abuse and unauthorised use of statutory power, the wielding of such power by an authorized person or authority cannot be conclusive. The exercise of the power and satisfaction of the conditions must and should be put to judicial scrutiny and examination, if the arrestee specifically challenges their arrest. If we do not hold so, then the restraint prescribed by the legislature would, in fact and in practice, be reduced to a mere formal exercise. Given the conditions imposed, the nature of the power and the effect on the rights of the individuals, it is nobody’s case, and not even argued by the DoE, that the 2382 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports authorised officer is entitled to arrest a person without following the statutory requirements. 20. However, it has been argued by the DoE that the power to arrest is neither an administrative nor a quasi-judicial power as the arrest is made during investigation. Judicial scrutiny is not permissible as it will interfere with investigation, or at best should be limited to subversive abuse of law. Discretion and right to arrest vests with the competent officer, whose subjective opinion should prevail. 21. We do not agree and must reject this argument. We hold that the power of judicial review shall prevail, and the court/magistrate is required to examine that the exercise of the power to arrest meets the statutory conditions. The legislature, while imposing strict conditions as preconditions to arrest, was aware that the arrest may be before or prior to initiation of the criminal proceedings/prosecution complaint. The legislature, neither explicitly nor impliedly, excludes the court surveillance and examination of the preconditions of Section 19(1) of the PML Act being satisfied in a particular case. This flows from the mandate of Section 19(3) which requires that the arrestee must be produced within 24 hours and taken to the Special Court, or court of judicial/metropolitan magistrate having jurisdiction. The exercise of the power to arrest is not exempt from the scrutiny of courts. The power of judicial review remains both before and after the filing of criminal proceedings/prosecution complaint. It cannot be said that the courts would exceed their power, when they examine the validity of arrest under Section 19(1) of the PML Act, once the accused is produced in court in terms of Section 19(3) of the PML Act. 22. Before we examine the scope and width of the jurisdiction of the court when it examines validity of arrest under Section 19(1) of the PML Act, we must take on record and deal with the argument of the DoE relying on the paragraphs 176 to 179 in Vijay Madanlal Choudhary (supra) under the heading ‘ECIR vis-a-vis FIR’. The submission is that there is difference between the “reasons to believe”, and the “grounds of arrest”, the latter is mandated to be furnished to the arrestee, but the former is an internal and confidential document, the furnishing of which may be detrimental to investigation.