They have an unwavering [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1393 State of Andhra Pradesh and Others v. Dr. Rao, V.B.J. Chelikani and Others commitment towards societal welfare and public services. However, at the same time, their salary and pay structures never match those of their counterparts in the private sector. Their carry home pay is much less than the persons with similar level of education and experience in the private sector. There is much less scope for wealth accumulation. Post-retirement benefits are also limited. They suffer on account of opportunity cost. Due to the transferable nature of their jobs, they do not have a permanent residence and, therefore, the scheme envisages allotment of housing sites to enable them to have a semblance of residential security. (iv) The allotment of housing sites, in view of the aforesaid differentiation and classification, has a rational nexus and objective. The policy provides stability to the lives of these officers and reduces dependence on government accommodation. It is a symbolic gesture of the government’s commitment to the welfare of the officers given the importance of their role and the challenges they face. No government largesse is given to the government employees. (v) The Cooperative Societies to whom land has been allotted have made substantial payments towards the price of the plots as also towards stamp duty.16 In many cases, the employees have retired and in some cases they have even died without getting benefit of the plots though they had made payments. Some of the societies have also undertaken development work at their own expense. (vi) Since journalists constitute a separate class, several Governments have allotted housing sites to them at concessional rates. 16 The details of the payments made by some of the Cooperative Societies towards the land cost and infrastructure development and conversion charges is as under: • Respondent No. 4 – M/s Indira Legislators Mutually Aided Cooperative Housing Society has spent more than Rs. 20 crores. • Respondent No. 6 – Adarshnagar Mutually Aided Cooperative Housing Society has spent more than Rs. 10 crores. • Respondent No. 7 – Koh-Ei-Noor Mutually Aided Cooperative Housing Society Ltd. has spent around Rs. 9.75 crores. • Respondent No. 8 – Jawaharlal Nehru Journalists Mutually Aided Cooperative Housing Society has spent around Rs. 13.8 crores. • Respondent No. 9 – M/s Indian Revenue Services Officers’ (Income-Tax) Housing Society has spent around Rs. 3.9 crores. 1394 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (vii) Allotment of plots at the basic rate, is legal and valid. Price determination falls within the exclusive domain of the Executive. Procedure under the law has been duly followed. Reliance is placed upon Andhra Pradesh (Telangana Area) Land Revenue Act, 1317F17 and the alienation rules framed thereunder which we shall refer to subsequently. (viii) Basic market value is determined by the Collector as per the Telangana Revision of Market Value Guideline Rules, 1998 which have been made in exercise of the power under Section 47A of the Indian Stamp Act, 1899. Sale value cannot be less than the basic value.