Chelikani and Others Area Rules, 1975. This aspect, as mentioned above, will be referred to subsequently. analysIs – Res Judicata and constructIve Res Judicata 29. The issue with regard to res judicata and constructive res judicata has been raised before us and was also argued before and considered by the High Court in the impugned . The plea of res judicata was rejected by the High Court, but it upheld the plea of constructive res judicata raised by the Cooperative Societies, their members and the State Government. 30. In Forward Construction Company (supra), this Court, relying upon Explanation (IV)18 to Section 11 of the Code of the Civil Procedure, 1908,19 observed that any matter that might or ought to have been made a ground of attack in a former suit is deemed to have been made a matter directly or substantially an issue in the said suit. Therefore, res judicata impacts not only the actual matter determined, but every other matter which the parties might or ought to have litigated and have decided as incidental to, or essentially connected with the subject matter of the litigation. It includes every matter coming into the legitimate purview of the original action, both in respect of the matters of claim and defence. The explains that the underlying principle in Explanation (IV) is that where the parties have had an opportunity of controverting a matter, that should have been taken to be the same thing as if the matter had been actually controverted and decided. 31. However, in the said case the contention relying upon Explanation (IV) was rejected observing that when a matter has been constructively in issue, it cannot be said to have been actually heard and decided. Reference was also made to Explanation (VI) to Section 11.20 It is observed that the said explanation will apply when the conditions mentioned in that explanation are satisfied. This means that the Court should be satisfied that the decision in the litigation shall bind 18 Explanation IV.—Any matter which might and ought to have been made ground of defence or attack in such former suit shall be deemed to have been a matter directly and substantially in issue in such suit. 19 For short, “CPC”. 20 Explanation VI.—Where persons litigate bona fide in respect of a public right or of a private right claimed in common for themselves and others, all persons interested in such right shall, for the purposes of this section, be deemed to claim under the persons so litigating. 1398 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports all persons interested in the right litigated. Onus of proving want of bona fides in respect of the previous litigation is on the parties seeking to avoid the said decision. Referring to the Explanation, it is said that Section 11 applies to public interest litigation as well. Such litigation has to be a bona fide litigation in respect of a right which is common and agitated in common with others. In the said case, this Court approved the decision of the High Court that Section 11 will not be applicable in view of the finding recorded by the High Court, observing that the first Writ Petition was not a bona fide one.