The pension papers of the members of the staff entitled to pension, gratuity, etc. under the scheme should be prepared in case of Gram Vidyapeeth staff by the Principal of the Gram Vidyapeeth on the basis of service record maintained by the Gram Vidyapeeth concerned. The entries 9 Miscellaneous Civil Application Number 01 of 2022 and Miscellaneous Civil Application Number 01 of 2023 10 Pension Scheme for the teaching/ non-teaching staff in the Gram Vidyapeeth, Government of Gujarat, Education Department, Resolution Number GUS/1089-5369/B Sachivalaya, Gandhinagar dated 13.07.1990 [2024] 12 S.C.R. 371 Nutan Bharti Gram Vidyapith v. Government of Gujarat and Anr. in the service book of the staff will be made and attested by the Principal of Gram Vidyapeeths and in case of Principal, by the management of the Gram Vidyapeeth concerned and such entries should be verified by the Director of Higher Education of the officer authorized by him and a certificate of verification recorded in the service books. The Director of Higher Education should sanction the pension, gratuity, etc. and forward the pension completed to the Director of Pension and Provisions Fund. The pension, gratuity, etc. so sanctioned will be payable from the Government Treasurers. The Director of pension and Provident Fund will produced be clean and issue a pension payment and/or gratuity payment on the Treasury, from which the pensioner illegible pension gratuity, under intimation to Director of Higher Education.” 9. Learned counsel argued that the aforesaid Paragraph 11 of the Scheme provides that the liability to pay pension is on the State Government. The direction given by the High Court in the passed in the Review Application is not in consonance with the aforesaid provisions. Hence, the same be set aside and the State should be held liable to pay retiral dues to the respondent no. 2. 10. On the other hand, learned counsel for the State submitted that the conduct of the appellant is to be seen before putting any liability with the State to pay retiral dues to an employee. It is a case in which the respondent no. 1/appellate authority vide dated 02.03.2000 directed reinstatement of the respondent no. 2. However, thereafter the college continued litigating, raising frivolous grounds, as a result of which, the State is now sought to be burdened with liability to pay pension to the respondent no. 2, who had not actually worked for the requisite period. More than two decades have passed thereafter and during this period, respondent no. 2 attained the age of superannuation. In support, reliance has been placed upon of this Court in Educational Society, Tumsar and Others vs. State of Maharashtra and Others.11 11. Learned counsel appearing for respondent no. 2 supported the argument raised by learned counsel for the appellant while stating 11 (2016) 3 SCC 512 : 2016 SCC Online SC 93 372 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports that in terms of the laws applicable to the appellant, being Grant-in- Aid Institution, the duty to pay retiral dues lies with the State, which cannot escape it’s liability.