the instructions of AO1” was not recorded in memorandum (Exhibit P-11). A pertinent suggestion was given to DySP (PW-10) that the appellant (AO1) stated at the time of the trap that he had forgotten his rexine bag in the coffee shop and that PW-1 had planted the currency notes therein which the DySP (PW-10) denied. 45. N. Chandrasekhar (PW-11) deposed that he was posted as Inspector, ACB from December, 2002 to March, 2006. He assisted the DySP (PW-10) in pre and post-trap proceedings conducted on 23rd January, 2003. He stated that the investigation of the case was entrusted to him wherein, he examined the witnesses including one M. Ashok. He admitted that M. Ashok was one of the workers employed in the saw-mill of the complainant (PW-1). He verified the panchama (Exhibit P-3) wherein, the name of M. Ashok was mentioned as a panch witness. He was questioned with reference to forest offence report which was prepared during the inspection of the saw-mill on 6th January, 2003, and admitted that M. Ashok who signed these documents was the same person who stood as a panch in the trap proceedings. The receipt (Exhibit P-2) did not contain the name of Malikarjun saw-mill and rather it reflected that the sum of Rs.50,000/- was received from M. Ashok. 46. What is most engrossing and significant to note from the evidence of N. Chandrashekar (PW-11) is that he did not utter a single word that he, along with the panch witnesses had occupied a table nearby the one on which the complainant (PW-1) and the appellant (AO1) were sitting inside the coffee shop of Hotel Quality-Inn. Evidently, the persons who were assigned the task to overhear the conversation between the appellant (AO1) and the complainant (PW-1) would be the most important witnesses in the case. The deposition of N. Chandrashekar (PW-11) on the above aspect contradicts to what was noted in the post-trap proceedings (Exhibit P-11) and the deposition made by panch witness. Kathi Srinivas Rao (PW-3) who categorically stated that he along mediators and other panch witness who would be none other than M. Ashok, went to Coffee Shop of Hotel Quality- Inn and occupied a table near the one on which the complainant (PW1) and the appellant (AO1) were sitting. 47. We may note that in so far as the allegation of demand of bribe is concerned, the complainant (PW-1), alleged in the complaint (Exhibit P-1) that a week after 6th January, 2003, the appellant (AO1) and AO2 662 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports both came to his mill and pressurized him that he would have to pay a monthly bribe (mamool) of Rs.5,000/- otherwise, they would file cases on him and his business would be ruined. As per the evidence of A Balachithan (PW-4) and the receipt (Exhibit P-2), the case for illegal possession of teakwood wherein, a sum of Rs.50,000/- was charged by way of compounding fee was not registered against the complainant (PW-1). It is an admitted position that M. Ashok S/o Abbaiah paid the said amount and the receipt (Exhibit P-2) bears his name and signature.