While it recognizes inter-se disparity among the Scheduled Castes, it holds the remedy to address this disparity to be unconstitutional. Once inter-se disparity is acknowledged, sub-classification of the class would be in pursuance of substantive equality; d. The State has the power to sub-classify because the enabling power to reserve seats includes ancillary and supplemental provisions such as preferences, concessions and exemptions; e. In Indra Sawhney (supra) this court has recognised internal differences between castes.40 Sub-classification within a class aligns with the opinion of Justice Mathew in NM Thomas (supra) holding that further classification within the class was possible;41 f. The Scheduled Castes are not a homogenous group but face varying degrees of discrimination. The first part of the obligation under Article 16(4) to ascertain backwardness has been accomplished by the President and subsequently, by the Parliament under Article 341. The second part of the enquiry about ‘inadequate representation’ is a mandate for the States. If the Scheduled Castes list were to be treated as a monolith, it would render the second part of Article 16(4) otiose and make the role of the States redundant; g. Sub-classification varies from the creamy layer principle since (i) economic advancement does not offset social discrimination faced by the Scheduled Castes; (ii) while the creamy layer excludes the socially advanced, sub-classification aims to identify within the Scheduled Castes, those who face the maximum social discrimination; (iii) sub-classification mainstreams certain castes and creates a preference based on qualitative inclusion, contradistinguished from exclusion of the creamy layer; and 40 Relied on Indra Sawhney (supra) [Justice Reddy, 802] 41 Relied on NM Thomas (supra) [Justice Mathew, 43] [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1355 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. (iv) preferential treatment identifies certain castes within the Scheduled Castes’ list, while the creamy layer exclusion applies to individuals; h. Scheduled Castes do not lose their identity once enumerated because caste is a sociological reality while the enumeration in the list is through the operation of a legal fiction. The limited preference to some groups by sub-classification because of their relative disadvantage will not exclude the other Scheduled Castes in the List notified under Article 341; i. The State Legislatures have the legislative competence to make preferences for the purposes of laws in relation to Entry 41 of List II and Entry 25 of List III of the Seventh Schedule; and j. Article16(4) is not subject to Article 335. ‘Efficiency’ under Article 335 must be defined in an inclusive sense. 21. Mr Kapil Sibal, senior counsel made the following submissions: a. The Constitution permits sub-classification. Article 366(34) which defines the Scheduled Castes envisages that even a part of a caste or a group may be included; b. While Justice Mathew in NM Thomas (supra) noted that “they are no castes in the Hindu fold but an amalgam of castes …”, in Chinnaiah (supra), Justice Hegde replaced “they” with “there” in the above paragraph and noted instead, “there are no castes…”. This replacement completely alters the meaning of the quotation in NM Thomas (supra) which was that the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes are a conglomeration of groups placed outside of the caste hierarchy, and not that Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes are homogenous;42 c. When Dr. B R Ambedkar stated in the Constituent Assembly that Article 341 is meant to “eliminate any kind of political factors” in “disturbing” the List, he was referring to inclusion and exclusion from the List.