No one can question the constitutional 81 [1975] 1 SCR 173 : (1974) 1 SCC 717 82 Ahmedabad St. Xavier’s College Society (supra) [14] 83 Ahmedabad St. Xavier’s College Society (supra) [16] 84 Ahmedabad St. Xavier’s College Society (supra) [14] 85 Ahmedabad St. Xavier’s College Society (supra) [144] [2024] 11 S.C.R. 407 Anjum Kadari & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. right of parents to satisfy their State-imposed obligation to educate their children by sending them to schools or colleges established and administered by their own religious minority so long as these schools and colleges meet the standards established for secular education.” The State has an interest in maintaining the standards of education in minority educational institutions. Affiliation or recognition of minority educational institutions by the Government secures the academic interests of students studying in such institutions to pursue higher education.86 d. The Madarsa Act is a regulatory legislation 63. The Statement of Objects and Reasons of the Madarsa Act indicates that it is enacted to remove difficulties in running Madarsas and improve the merit of students studying in Madarsas by making available to them facilities of study of the requisite standard. Section 3 provides for the constitution of the Board. The Board comprises persons who are related to or know about education in Madarsas. The Board has been statutorily empowered to: (i) prescribe courses of instruction and text-books for courses; (ii) grant degrees, diplomas, certificates and other academic distinctions; (iii) conduct examinations; (iv) recognise institutions for examination; (v) admit candidates for examinations; (vi) publish the results of the examination; and (vii) to provide for research and training in any branch of Madarsa education. 86 In re Kerala Education Bill 1957 (supra) [32] [“32. […] The minorities evidently desire that education should be imparted to the children of their community in an atmosphere congenial to the growth of their culture. Our Constitution makers recognised the validity of their claim and to allay their fears conferred on them the fundamental rights referred to above. But the conservation of the distinct language, script or culture is not the only object of choice of the minority communities. They also desire that scholars of their educational institutions should go out in the world well and sufficiently equipped with the qualifications necessary for a useful career in life. But according to the Education Code now in operation to which it is permissible to refer for ascertaining the effect of the impugned provisions on existing state of affairs, the scholars of unrecognised schools are not permitted to avail themselves of the opportunities for higher education in the university and are not eligible for entering the public services. Without recognition, therefore, the educational institutions established or to be established by the minority communities cannot fulfil the real objects of their choice and the rights under Article 30(1) cannot be effectively exercised. The right to establish educational institutions of their choice must, therefore, mean the right to establish real institutions which will effectively serve the needs of their community and the scholars who resort to their educational institutions.