Article 11 protects the power of the Parliament to make any provision with respect to the acquisition and termination of citizenship or all the matters relating to citizenship. CITIZENSHIP UNDER THE 1955 ACT 18. Now, we turn to the provisions of the 1955 Act. Pranav has not claimed citizenship by birth (Section 3) or citizenship by descent (Section 4). He has claimed citizenship under clause (b) of sub- section (1) of Section 5 of the 1955 Act. Section 5 of the 1955 Act reads thus: “5. Citizenship by registration.― (1) Subject to the provisions of this section and such other conditions and restrictions as may be prescribed, the Central Government may, on an application made in this behalf, register as a citizen of India any person not being an illegal migrant who is not already such citizen by virtue of the Constitution or of any other provision of this Act if he belongs to any of the following categories, namely:― [2024] 10 S.C.R. 747 Union of India v. Pranav Srinivasan (a) a person of Indian origin who is ordinarily resident in India for seven years before making an application for registration; (b) a person of Indian origin who is ordinarily resident in any country or place outside undivided India; (c) a person who is married to a citizen of India and is ordinarily resident in India for seven years before making an application for registration; (d) minor children of persons who are citizens of India; (e) a person of full age and capacity whose parents are registered as citizens of India under clause (a) of this sub-section or sub-section (1) of section 6; (f) a person of full age and capacity who, or either of his parents, was earlier citizen of independent India, and is ordinarily resident in India for twelve months immediately before making an application for registration; (g) a person of full age and capacity who has been registered as an Overseas Citizen of India Cardholder for five years, and who is ordinarily resident in India for twelve months before making an application for registration. Explanation 1.―For the purposes of clauses (a) and (c), an applicant shall be deemed to be ordinarily resident in India if― (i) he has resided in India throughout the period of twelve months immediately before making an application for registration; and (ii) he has resided in India during the eight years immediately preceding the said period of twelve months for a period of not less than six years. Explanation 2.―For the purposes of this sub-section, a person shall be deemed to be of Indian origin if he, 748 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports or either of his parents, was born in undivided India or in such other territory which became part of India after the 15th day of August, 1947. (1A) The Central Government, if it is satisfied that special circumstances exist, may after recording the circumstances in writing, relax the period of twelve months, specified in clauses (f) and (g) and clause (i) of Explanation 1 of sub- section (1), up to a maximum of thirty days which may be in different breaks.