The reason is that the object of passing interim has not been considered while deciding Asian Resurfacing1. An of interim relief is usually granted in the aid of the final relief sought in the case. An occasion for passing an of stay of the proceedings normally arises when the High Court is dealing with a challenge to an interim or interlocutory passed during the pendency of the main case before a trial or appellate Court. The High Court can grant relief of the stay of hearing of the main proceedings on being satisfied that a prima facie case is made out and that the failure to stay the proceedings before the concerned Court in all probability may render the remedy adopted infructuous. When the High Court passes an interim of stay, though the interim may not expressly say so, the three factors, viz; prima facie case, irreparable loss, and balance of convenience, are always in the back of the judges’ minds. Though interim s of stay of proceedings cannot be routinely passed as a matter of course, it cannot be said that such s can be passed only in exceptional cases. Nevertheless, the High Courts, while passing s of stay in serious cases like the offences under the PC Act or serious offences against women and children, must be more cautious and circumspect. An occasion for passing an of stay of proceeding arises as it is not possible for the High Court to take up the case for final hearing immediately. While entertaining a challenge to an passed in a pending case, if the pending case is not stayed, the trial or the appellate Court may decide the pending case, rendering the remedy before the High Court ineffective. Such a situation often leads to the passing of an of remand. In our legal system, which is facing a docket explosion, an of remand should be made only as a last resort. The s of remand not only result in more delays but also increase the cost of litigation. Therefore, to avoid the possibility of passing an of remand, the grant of stay of proceedings is called for in many cases. [2024] 2 S.C.R. 965 High Court Bar Association, Allahabad v. State of U.P. & Ors. II. High Court’s power to vacate or modify interim relief 14. When a High Court grants a stay of the proceedings while issuing notice without giving an opportunity of being heard to the contesting parties, it is not an interim , but it is an ad-interim of stay. It can be converted into an interim of stay only after an opportunity of being heard is granted on the prayer for interim relief to all the parties to the proceedings. Ad-interim s, by their very nature, should be of a limited duration. Therefore, such s do not pose any problem. 15. The High Courts are always empowered to vacate or modify an of interim relief passed after hearing the parties on the following, amongst other grounds: - (a) If a litigant, after getting an of stay, deliberately prolongs the proceedings either by seeking adjournments on unwarranted grounds or by remaining absent when the main case in which interim relief is granted is called out for hearing before the High Court with the object of taking undue advantage of the of stay; (b) The High Court finds that the of interim relief is granted as a result of either suppression or misrepresentation of material facts by the party in whose favour the interim of stay has been made; and (c) The High Court finds that there is a material change in circumstances requiring interference with the interim passed earlier.