It would thus be seen that this provision contemplates that some Backward Classes [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1477 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. may by the Presidential be included in Scheduled Castes and Tribes. That helps to bring out the point that the Backward Classes for whose improvement special provision is contemplated by Article 15(4) are in the matter of their backwardness comparable to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes.” 55. This Court observed that the backward classes of citizens for whom special provision is authorized to be made are, by Article 15(4) itself, treated as being similar to the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. It has been observed that the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes which have been defined were known to be backward and the Constitution-makers felt no doubt that special provision had to be made for their advancement. However, it was realized that in the Indian Society there were other classes of citizens who were equally, or may be somewhat less backward than the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, and it was thought that some special provision ought to be made even for them. The Court observed that the Backward Classes for whose improvement special provision is contemplated by Article 15(4) are in the matter of their backwardness comparable to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. 56. It will also be apposite to refer to the following observations of this Court: “21. ……The backwardness under Article 15(4) must be social and educational. It is not either social or educational, but it is both social and educational; and that takes us to the question as to how social and educational backwardness has to determined.” 57. It is thus clear that the Constitution Bench of this Court observed that the backwardness under Article 15(4) must be social and educational. It is neither social nor educational, but it has to be both social and educational. 58. The Court then considered the question as to whether caste can be made the sole basis for determining the social backwardness was permissible or not. The Court observed that the group of citizens to whom Article 15(4) applies are described as “classes of citizens”, not as castes of citizens. The Court observed that therefore in dealing with the question as to whether any class of citizens is socially 1478 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports backward or not, it may not be irrelevant to consider the caste of the said group of citizens. It has been observed that though the caste of the group of citizens may be relevant, its importance should not be exaggerated. The Court further observed that social backwardness is, on the ultimate analysis, the result of poverty to a very large extent. It observed that the classes of citizens who are deplorably poor automatically become socially backward. It observed that they do not enjoy a status in society and have, therefore, to be content to take a backward seat. The Court therefore held that both caste and poverty are relevant in determining the backwardness of citizens.