(iii) The condition should be embodied in the same document which effects or purports to effect the sale. We shall now examine whether these ingredients are satisfied in the present case by analyzing the terms of the mortgage deed dated 17.10.1990. 15. (i) Ostensible Sale of the Property The mortgage deed indicates that the mortgagor agreed to mortgage her land to the mortgagee for a sum of ₹75,000 due to personal financial needs. Clause 1 of the mortgage deed is reproduced hereunder: “1. That the mortgagor is the owner of the above land. The above land is mortgaged for a sum of Rs. 75,000 (seventy- five thousand). From today onwards possession of the above land will remain with the mortgagee with conditions purchaser. The above land prior to this has neither been mortgaged nor sold to anybody else. Mortgagee with condition purchaser can use this land from today onwards. Entire money is received in cash.” [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1137 Leela Agrawal v. Sarkar & Anr. The use of the term “mortgage with condition to sell” and references to the mortgagee as “mortgagee with condition purchaser” indicate that the mortgagor ostensibly sold the property to the mortgagee, satisfying the first ingredient. 16. (ii) Condition Attached to the Ostensible Sale The mortgage deed contains explicit conditions further in clause 1 that align with this condition: “1…….. The above land has been mortgaged for a period of three years. If the mortgagor returns the above money along with interest within three years to the mortgagee, then the mortgagee and her legal heirs will return back the possession of the mortgaged land to the mortgagor.” “If the mortgagor fails to return back the said money within a period of three years from the date of execution of this document, then the present mortgage deed will be treated as sale deed. Then the mortgagor and her legal heirs will have no right to claim their possession over the said land from the mortgagee. That after the expiry of the said period of mortgage, the mortgagee will herself become the owner of said land and the right of mortgagor to get release her land will automatically close.” This establishes that upon default in payment within the stipulated period, the sale would become absolute, satisfying the second ingredient under the first condition specified in Section 58(c) of the Act that on default of payment on a certain date, the sale shall become absolute. 17. (iii) Condition Embodied in the Same Document As required under the proviso of Section 58(c), the condition regarding the conversion of the mortgage into an absolute sale upon default is embodied within the same document i.e., the mortgage deed dated 17.10.1990. This is evident from the clauses cited above and further reinforced by Clause 6 and 7 of the mortgage deed as follows: “6. That the right of foreclosure of mortgagor will automatically close after 3 years of registration of this 1138 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports document and will have no right of getting released this land and shall be debarred from the proceedings of releasing the said land.” “7.