The period of limitation mentioned under Section 13 of the A.P. Forest Act cannot be breached, though one might raise an objection with respect to its commencement. SCOPE OF REVIEW 14. We shall start our discussion with the statement of law rendered by Justice V.R. Krishna Iyer. [2024] 5 S.C.R. 97 The State of Telangana & Ors. v. Mohd. Abdul Qasim (Died) Per LRs. Northern India Caterers (India) Ltd. v. Lt. Governor of Delhi, (1980) 2 SCC 167, “14. A plea for review, unless the first judicial view is manifestly distorted, is like asking for the moon. A forensic defeat cannot be avenged by an invitation to have a second look, hopeful of discovery of flaws and reversal of result…” 15. The legislature, in its wisdom, has chosen to restrict the scope of review from time to time. To indicate this legislative shift, Section 376 and 378 of the Code of Civil Procedure 1859 (hereinafter referred to as “the CPC 1859”), Section 623 of the Code of Civil Procedure 1877 (hereinafter referred to as “the CPC 1877”), Section 114 and XLVII Rule 1 of the CPC 1908 are reproduced herein below, Section 376 of the CPC 1859 “376 - Review of Judgement on discovery of new evidence: Any person considering himself aggrieved by a decree of a Court of original jurisdiction, from which no appeal shall have been preferred to a Superior Court - or by a decree of a District Court in appeal from which no special appeal shall have been admitted by the Sudder Court - or by a decree of the Sudder Court from which either no appeal may have been preferred to Her Majesty in Council, or an appeal having been preferred no proceedings in the suit have been transmitted to Her Majesty in Council - and who from the discovery of new matter or evidence which was not within his knowledge, or could not be adduced by him at the time when such decree was passed, or from any other good and sufficient reason, may be desirous of obtaining a review of the judgement passed against him – may apply for a review of judgement by the Court which passed the decree.” (emphasis supplied) Section 378 of the CPC 1859 “378 - The of the Court for granting or refusing the review is final: If the Court shall be of opinion that there are not any sufficient grounds for a review, it shall reject the application, but if it shall be of opinion that the review desired is necessary to correct an evident 98 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports error or omission or is otherwise requisite for the ends of justice, the Court shall grant the review, and its in either case, whether for rejecting the application or granting the review, shall be final. Provided that no review of judgement shall be granted without previous notice to the opposite party to enable him to appear and be heard in support of the decree of which a review is solicited.” (emphasis supplied) 16.