36. At the cost of repetition, it may be noted that the veracity of disclosure statement of A1 as recorded by PW-22 has already been doubted by us. In addition thereto, it is manifest that the disclosure statement of A1 cannot be read in evidence against the other accused i.e. A2, A3 and A5. The evidentiary value of the confession of one co- accused against the other was considered by this Court in the case of Haricharan Kurmi v. State of Bihar reported in AIR 1964 SC 1194 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 1184 and it was held that such statement is not a substantive piece of evidence. The said case dealt with a judicial confession made by an accused and it was held that even such confession cannot be treated as a substantive evidence against other co-accused persons. In the case at hand, the situation is even worse because the High Court has relied upon the interrogation note of A1 (Exhibit-96) so as to hold A2, A3 and A5 guilty of the offence. The interrogation note of A1 being hit by Section 25 of the Evidence Act cannot be read in evidence for any purpose whatsoever. 37. From a thorough appreciation of the evidence available on record, we find that the prosecution miserably failed to lead reliable, tangible and convincing links forming a complete chain of incriminating circumstances so as to bring home the guilt of the accused for the charge of murder punishable under Section 302 IPC. 38. We may note from the quoted portions of the impugned that while reversing the acquittal of the accused recorded by the trial Court for the charges under Sections 302 read with Section 34 and Sections 396 and 397 IPC, the High Court did not record any such finding that the view taken by the trial Court, based on appreciation of evidence was either perverse or it was not one of the permissible views favouring the acquittal of the accused. In this background, the impugned rendered by the High Court falls short of the satisfaction mandatorily required to be recorded for reversing a of acquittal and converting it to one of conviction. 39. We are rather compelled to hold that the of the High Court is based sheerly on conjectures and surmises rather than being based on any substantive or reliable circumstantial evidence pointing exclusively to the guilt of the accused. Insofar as the conviction of the accused as recorded by the trial Court for the offence under Section 392 is concerned, the same is also based on the same set of inadmissible and unreliable links of circumstantial evidence which we have discarded in the preceding discussion. Conclusion: - 40. As a consequence of the above discussion, the impugned dated 11th December, 2015 passed by the High Court of Gujarat at Ahmedabad in Criminal Appeal No. 1012 of 1993 and Criminal Appeal No. 949 of 1994 does not stand to scrutiny and is hereby [2024] 2 S.C.R. 1195 Thakore Umedsing Nathusing v. State of Gujarat quashed and set aside.