P. Gupta”). Transparency is critical to preserve the integrity of the decision-making process. Public scrutiny would be crucial to evaluate the putative separation of interests and influence between scientific research and regulatory policy formulation. 43.4 The access to environmental information facilitates ‘meaningful engagement’ and rights-conscious decision-making. The engagement with stakeholders through the participative process inspires confidence in the decision-making process 2120 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports and leads to more sound outcomes which are less vulnerable to legal challenge. 43.5 The presence of sufficient safeguards such as transparency, accountability and public participation wherever permissible within the decision-making process is critical to ensure that regulatory decisions are not made on partial and uncontested scientific evidence. In this context, I take note of the dicta in Harvester Co. vs. Ruckelshaus, 478 F.2d 615, 652 (D.C. Cir. 1973) (“Harvester Co.”), wherein the US Court of Appeal, DC Circuit held that prior to adjudicating difficult technological questions, the judiciary ought to be assured that such questions are first “resolved in the crucible of debate through the clash of informed but opposing scientific and technological viewpoints.” But the approach of GEAC has been quite contrary to the approach explained above. The record shows that on 22.09.2016, various scholars and public activists endorsed an email addressed to the Hon’ble Minister of Environment, Forest and Climate Change raising serious objections to the conduct of the appraisal process, particularly the refusal to disclose the biosafety dossier to the general public. They urged the MoEF&CC to extend the consultation process by another 120 days. In addition to the email, on 24.09.2016, scholars, experts, and eminent citizens sent a letter to the Hon’ble Minister of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, expressing grave concerns regarding GEAC’s refusal to disclose the biosafety data to the general public, hindering a meaningful exercise of public consultation. These objections initially weighed with GEAC to defer environmental release of DMH-11 in the years 2019-2021. But in the year 2022, things moved with an undue haste and speed and thereby GEAC ignored all precautionary measures suggested by TEC as well as by the sub-committee constituted by it and simply leaf frogged into the impugned decision dated 18.10.2022. This, I find, has adverse legal and environmental consequences. The other critical right is that of public participation in environmental decision-making. 44. Moving further, learned Attorney General submitted that pursuant to the TEC Report submitted to this Court, several guidelines and a [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2121 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. legal framework were put in place. In this regard, I have perused the specific guidance documents issued in the year 2016, said to be in accordance with the CPB, to further strengthen the risk assessment procedure. The same are discussed as under: i. Risk Analysis Framework, 2016 provides a step-by-step consultation process for seeking views from stakeholders: a) Information about submission of applications is communicated through the minutes of the meetings. b) A RARM plan for each application is prepared by the regulatory agencies and is uploaded on the official website for receiving comments for a period of 30 days.