2. Whether the suit itself was not maintainable due to non- compliance of Section 51 and 54 of the Assam (Temporary Settled Areas} Tenancy Act, 1971?” 7. Again, the High Court framed one additional substantial question of law on 25.03.2015, which reads as follows: - “1. Whether the declaration of right, title and interest by the Courts below is at all legally justified in view of the position that the same was granted on the basis of Exhibit 1, i.e., the Annual Petta.” 8. As transpiring from the impugned , the appeal was partly heard on 25-03-2015 and again was concluded on 27-03-2015, however, on both the occasions, none had appeared on behalf of the appellants - plaintiffs, and the High Court vide the impugned dated 07-04-2015 allowed the said second appeal and set aside the and Decree passed by the two courts below. It has been held by the High Court inter alia that though the Courts below had dismissed the appeal of the respondents (defendants) on the ground that they had failed to prove adverse possession of the suit land, however, as per the legal position, the appellants – plaintiffs could succeed only on the strength of their own case, irrespective of the question whether the respondents – defendants really proved their case or not. The High Court further held that the courts below had not considered the provisions of Assam (Temporary Settled Areas) Tenancy Act, 1971 and had committed gross error in decreeing the suit of the appellants – plaintiffs holding the defendants to be the encroachers. 9. It is sought to be submitted by Ms. Kavya Jhawar, learned Advocate appearing for the appellants – plaintiffs that the High Court has grossly [2024] 8 S.C.R. 731 Rama Kt. Barman (Died) Thr. Lrs. v. Md. Mahim Ali & Ors. erred in not giving proper opportunity of hearing to the appellants, more particularly when the High Court had framed as many as four additional substantial questions of law, which were not raised by any of the parties before the Courts below. She further submitted that the respondents – defendants had claimed the ownership over the suit land by the adverse possession, and had not claimed tenancy rights over the same, however, the High Court has created a new case for the respondents – defendants by framing additional substantial questions of law and allowing the Second Appeal without giving any opportunity of leading the evidence on the additional issues framed by it. 10. Mr. Azim H. Laskar, the learned counsel appearing for the respondents has fairly submitted that the High Court having not given the proper opportunity to the parties to lead evidence on the additional substantial questions of law framed by it, he has no objection if the matter is remanded to the High Court for fresh consideration. 11. It is needless to say that XLI of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1809 would apply to the appeals from the appellate decrees also, as contemplated in Rule-1, XLII of the said Code.