[2024] 5 S.C.R. 709 Sunita Devi v. The State of Bihar & Anr. (11) When exercising functions under this section, the Council must have regard to the following matters— (a) the sentences imposed by courts in England and Wales for offences; (b) the need to promote consistency in sentencing; (c) the impact of sentencing decisions on victims of offences; (d) the need to promote public confidence in the criminal justice system; (e) the cost of different sentences and their relative effectiveness in preventing re-offending; (f) the results of the monitoring carried out under section 128.” Section 121 of the Coroner and Justice Act, 2009 “121 Sentencing ranges (1) When exercising functions under section 120, the Council is to have regard to the desirability of sentencing guidelines which relate to a particular offence being structured in the way described in subsections (2) to (9). (2) The guidelines should, if reasonably practicable given the nature of the offence, describe, by reference to one or more of the factors mentioned in subsection (3), different categories of case involving the commission of the offence which illustrate in general terms the varying degrees of seriousness with which the offence may be committed. (3) Those factors are— (a) the offender’s culpability in committing the offence; (b) the harm caused, or intended to be caused or which might foreseeably have been caused, by the offence; 710 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (c) such other factors as the Council considers to be particularly relevant to the seriousness of the offence in question. (4) The guidelines should— (a) specify the range of sentences (“the offence range”) which, in the opinion of the Council, it may be appropriate for a court to impose on an offender convicted of that offence, and (b) if the guidelines describe different categories of case in accordance with subsection (2), specify for each category the range of sentences (“the category range”) within the offence range which, in the opinion of the Council, it may be appropriate for a court to impose on an offender in a case which falls within the category. (5) The guidelines should also— (a) specify the sentencing starting point in the offence range, or (b) if the guidelines describe different categories of case in accordance with subsection (2), specify the sentencing starting point in the offence range for each of those categories. (6) The guidelines should— (a) (to the extent not already taken into account by categories of case described in accordance with subsection (2)) list any aggravating or mitigating factors which, by virtue of any enactment or other rule of law, the court is required to take into account when considering the seriousness of the offence and any other aggravating or mitigating factors which the Council considers are relevant to such a consideration, (b) list any other mitigating factors which the Council considers are relevant in mitigation of sentence for the offence, and [2024] 5 S.C.R. 711 Sunita Devi v. The State of Bihar & Anr. (c) include criteria, and provide guidance, for determining the weight to be given to previous convictions of the offender and such of the other factors within paragraph (a) or (b) as the Council considers to be of particular significance in relation to the offence or the offender.