abuses associated with child marriage. This shift was a response to growing evidence that child marriage disproportionately harms girls, undermining their education, health, and prospects for economic independence. Recognizing that such marriages are often non- consensual and perpetuate cycles of poverty and inequality, the international community began drafting conventions aimed at setting protective standards for marriageable age and conditions. ii. Recognition in political conventions 121. The Supplementary Convention on the Abolition of Slavery, the Slave Trade, and Institutions and Practices Similar to Slavery of 1956163 expanded on these protections by directly addressing practices similar to slavery, including child marriage. Article 2 of the Convention mandates that State Parties prescribe, where appropriate, suitable minimum ages of marriage and encourage the use of facilities whereby the consent of both parties to a marriage may be freely expressed in the presence of a competent civil or religious authority.164 This provision reflects a recognition that child marriage can be exploitative and akin to slavery. In aligning marriage requirements with those designed to end slavery-like practices, the Convention highlights the UN’s stance against child marriage as a form of coercion and exploitation. 122. These standards were developed as a matter of political rights guarantee in the ICCPR.165 Article 23(2) establishes the right of men and women of marriageable age to marry and to found a family.166 Article 23(3) prescribes that no marriage shall be entered into without the free and full consent of the intending spouses.167 Finally, Article 23(4) requires that State Parties take measures to ensure equality in marriage, signalling the UN’s increasing recognition of individual autonomy, choice, and consent in marriage.168 This framework not only advocates for minimum marriageable age requirements but also emphasizes free and full consent. The framers 163 The Supplementary Convention on the Abolition of Slavery, the Slave Trade, and Institutions and Practices Similar to Slavery, 1956. 164 Ibid, Article 2. 165 UN General Assembly (1966). International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 999, p. 171. 166 ICCPR, Article 23 (2). 167 ICCPR. Article 23(3). 168 ICCPR. Article 23(4). 1582 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of these documents aimed to prevent child marriage by specifically using the terms “men and women,” rather than “males and females,” to imply an age of maturity and decision-making capacity necessary for marriage.169 iii. Targeted focus: the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women and the Convention on the Rights of the Child. 123. The progress of the international community led to the ground- breaking inclusion of child marriage as an expressly recognised illegality in the CEDAW.170 Article 16(2) explicitly invalidates child betrothals and marriages, calling for legislation to establish a minimum age for marriage and mandate official registration.171 This is crucial to CEDAW’s objective of safeguarding women’s rights and autonomy, highlighting that child marriage undermines the agency, equality, and dignity of girls and women. By emphasizing that child marriages should have no legal effect, CEDAW directly addresses the systemic inequalities perpetuated through such practices.