[Paras 208, 210, 211] Constitution of India – Entry 50 List II – Expression ‘any limitations’ – Construction of: Held: (per Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI) (for himself and for Hrishikesh Roy, Abhay S Oka, J.B. Pardiwala, Manoj Misra, Ujjal Bhuyan, Satish Chandra Sharma and Augustine George Masih, JJ.) Use of the expression “any” before “limitations” under Entry 50 of List II indicates that the scope of the limitations is expansive and includes “all” or “every” limitation that could be imposed by Parliament by law relating to mineral development – Expression “any” has to be construed in its context, taking into consideration the scheme, purpose, and subject matter of the enactment, or the scheme of distribution of legislative powers under the Constitution – Expression “any limitations” is indicative of the fact that Parliament has been provided with ample legislative freedom to conceive limitations or restrictions on the legislative powers of the State to tax minerals. [Para 233] [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1569 Mineral Area Development Authority & Anr. v. M/s Steel Authority of India & Anr. Etc. Constitution of India – Taxes on mineral rights on mineral development – Impact of: Held: (per Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI) (for himself and for Hrishikesh Roy, Abhay S Oka, J.B. Pardiwala, Manoj Misra, Ujjal Bhuyan, Satish Chandra Sharma and Augustine George Masih, JJ.) Uniformity of prices of mineral commodities ensures the objective of mineral development as envisaged under the MMDR Act – Levy of a tax on mineral rights by the State legislatures may lead to an increase in the prices of the mineral commodity in India – An increase in the rate of tax on a particular commodity cannot per se be said to impede free trade and commerce in that commodity – To counteract any adverse impact on the development of minerals in India that the Constitution has empowered Parliament under Entry 50 List II to impose limitations on the basis of which the State legislature can tax mineral rights – Parliament has the responsibility to ensure that there is no adverse effect on development of mineral rights – Legislative powers granted to the State legislatures cannot be whittled down impliedly based on the presumption that all taxes on mineral rights imposed by the State will have adverse economic consequences on mineral development – States have a constitutional and sovereign authority to exercise their taxing powers, within the bounds of the Constitution, to raise adequate revenues for the welfare of the people. [Paras 248, 249] Constitution of India – Entry 49 List II – Taxes on lands and buildings – Principles governing ‘taxes on lands and buildings’ under Entry 49 List II – Explanation – State legislatures, if competent to levy a tax on mineral-bearing land as a unit under Entry 49 of List II: Held: (per Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI) (for himself and for Hrishikesh Roy, Abhay S Oka, J.B. Pardiwala, Manoj Misra, Ujjal Bhuyan, Satish Chandra Sharma and Augustine George Masih, JJ.) Entry 49 List II contemplates levy of tax on land as a unit, irrespective of the use to which it is put – Thus, the State legislature is competent while designing the levy under Entry 49 List II to tax lands which comprise of mines and quarries – Mineral- bearing land also falls within the description of “lands” under Entry 49 List II – State legislature has wide discretion to classify lands and levy taxes on them under Entry 49 List II – Subject of taxation 1570 [2024] 7 S.C.R.