An agreement enforceable by law is a contract. i. Unconscionability under the Contract Act 139. The Contract Act accounts for unconscionability under Section 16 relating to undue influence. It provides that a contract induced by undue influence is unconscionable. A contract is induced by undue influence where the relations subsisting between the parties are such that one of the parties is in a position to dominate the will of the other and uses that position to obtain an unfair advantage.249 A contract induced by undue influence is voidable at the option of the party whose consent was caused by undue influence.250 Illustration (c) to Section 16 pertains to an unconscionable bargain: 247 See Cox and Kings [63]. 248 Section 2(d) defines consideration as follows: [“(d) When, at the desire of the promisor, the promise or any other person has done or abstained from doing, or does or abstains from doing, or promises to do or to abstain from doing, something, such act or abstinence or promise is called a consideration for the promise;”] 249 Section 16, Contract Act. [It reads: “16. “Undue Influence” defined – (1) A contract is said to be induced by “undue influence” where the relations subsisting between the parties are such that one of the parties is in a position to dominate the will of the other and uses that position to obtain an unfair advantage over the other. (2) In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing principle, a person is deemed to be in a position to dominate the will of another – (a) where he hold a real or apparent authority over the other or where he stands in a fiduciary relation to the other; or (b) where he makes a contract with a person whose mental capacity is temporarily or permanently affect by reason of age, illness, or mental or bodily distress. (3) Where a person who is in a position to dominate the will of another, enters into a contract with him, and the transaction appears, on the face of it or on the evidence adduced, to be unconscionable, the burden of proving that such contract was not induced by undue influence shall lie upon the person in a position to dominate the will of the other. Nothing in this sub-section shall affect the provision of Section 111 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1871 (I of 1872).”] 250 Section 19A, Contract Act. 2262 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports “(c) A, being in debt to B, the money-lender of his village, contracts a fresh loan on terms which appear to be unconscionable. It lies on B to prove that the contract was induced by undue influence.” 140. Section 23 pertains to unlawful consideration or object of an agreement: “23. What considerations and objects are lawful, and what not – The consideration or object of an agreement is lawful, unless – it is forbidden by law; or is of such a nature that if permitted, it would defeat the provisions of any law; or is fraudulent; or involves or implies injury to the person or property of another; or the Court regards it as immoral, or opposed to public policy.” 141.