v. State of Punjab & Anr. 2014 Law Suit (SC) 202, Yogendra Yadav & Ors. v. State of Jharkhand & Anr., Dimpey Gujral W/o Vivek Gujral & Ors. v. Union Territory & Ors. and drawn the attention of the Court towards the said s. Hearing the learned counsel for the parties and the learned Additional Government Advocate and examining the file and after considering the above precedents of the Hon’ble Supreme Court, this application submitted under Section 482 CrPC is eligible to be accepted. Accordingly, this application is accepted and the entire proceedings of the above mentioned case are set aside.” 9. The Learned Counsel appearing on behalf of the Appellant has submitted that the Appellant is an injured victim of the alleged offence; and also, is the original complainant in relation to the FIR. Accordingly, it has been vehemently contended before us that the High Court erred in law as well as in facts by allowing the 2nd Settlement Application. It was also submitted before us that the Impugned suffers from perversity and illegality on account of the fact that it fails to consider that the Appellant i.e., the original complainant, was neither a party 390 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports to the Settlement Agreement nor was amenable to such a course of action. In this context, it was submitted that the High Court ought not to have exercised its jurisdiction under 482 CrPC in favour of the Accused Persons. 10. On the other hand, Learned Counsel appearing on behalf of Accused Persons has submitted that the Accused Persons entered into a settlement / compromise with Respondent No. 5 i.e., the principal victim who was allegedly abducted, and accordingly, once Respondent No. 5 had settled the matter, there was no justifiable cause to continue criminal proceedings against the Accused Persons. Thus, it was submitted that the Impugned , was a well-reasoned , that warrants no interference from this Court. 11. We have heard the counsel(s) appearing on behalf of the parties and perused the record. Admittedly and undisputedly, the Appellant herein is (i) an injured victim qua the alleged offence; and (ii) the original complainant qua the FIR. Furthermore, from the materials placed on record and the arguments advanced, it can safely be concluded that the Appellant neither entered into any settlement with the Accused Persons nor was courting any such idea. Accordingly, in view of the aforesaid circumstances, we fail to understand how the High Court proceeded to quash the FIR; and the proceedings emanating thereof in exercise of its jurisdiction under Section 482 CrPC. This Court in Gian Singh v. State of Punjab, (2012) 10 SCC 303 authoritatively laid down principles governing the exercise of jurisdiction under Section 482 CrPC by High Courts vis-à-vis quashing of an FIR, criminal proceeding or complaint. The same is reproduced as under: “61. The position that emerges from the above discussion can be summarised thus : the power of the High Court in quashing a criminal proceeding or FIR or complaint in exercise of its inherent jurisdiction is distinct and different from the power given to a criminal court for compounding the offences under Section 320 of the Code.