It cannot be gainsaid that even though the modalities for engagement of two individuals for executing similar nature of work could differ, there can be no quarrel that none can gain experience without being asked to work. One vital difference in working on a sanctioned post as a permanent employee and being employed in the exigencies of administration without having a right to post is that in the former, the appointee enjoys procedural safeguards bringing in a sense of security of service in him while in the latter the individual concerned may not have any such sense of security. But, in case, both perform the work of clerks, the experience gained would not be much at a variance subject, of course, that the job requirement is not too different. It would also be relevant to bear in mind stipulations in the advertisement if, at all, they call for any special requirement for marks to be secured for experience, viz. previous service rendered on a sanctioned post or if salary, as is specified, has to be received for service rendered in to be eligible to apply. 21. Moving on to the Advertisement in this case calling for our attention, we find that it required: “(d) Experience: One half (= 0.5) mark for each year or part thereof exceeding six months of experience, out of a maximum of 10 years, on the same or a higher post in any Department/Board/ Corporation/Company/Statutory Body/Commission/Authority of Government of Haryana. No marks will be awarded for a period less than six months. (a maximum of 5 marks)” 22. A literal reading of the terms relating to experience confirms that marks could be secured by an aspirant for experience gathered 14 [1976] 2 SCR 214 : (1976) 1 SCC 373 [2024] 11 S.C.R. 967 Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University, Hisar & Anr. v. Monika & ors. while working in the enumerated departments of the Government of Haryana; however, while referring to ‘same or a higher post’, the term ‘sanctioned’ as a prefix is conspicuous by its absence. Additionally, neither the Outsourcing Policy nor the Advertisement defines the word “post”. What follows is that an aspirant, to secure mark for experience, must prove with documents that he/she has been employed for performing work of the nature required by the same or a higher post. Importantly, it has not been shown that either the Recruitment Rules or the Advertisement specifically bar(s) aspirants from securing marks for experience gained from contractual / outsourced employment. Thus, we have no hesitation to hold that the mode of employment is not the primary concern. To our mind, the primary concern is the nature of work performed and whether the work undertaken by the candidate has any nexus with the purported work to be undertaken during the course of regular service. That the first respondent had rendered service for a statutory body in excess of six months and is, therefore, covered by the last part of clause (d) does not admit of any doubt and hence, she had a valid claim for securing 0.5 mark for experience.