[2024] 9 S.C.R. 313 : 2024 INSC 683 Jaseela Shaji v. The Union of India & Ors. (Criminal Appeal No. 3083 of 2024) 12 September 2024 [B.R. Gavai,* Prashant Kumar Mishra and K.V. Viswanathan, JJ.] Issue for Consideration Issue arose as to whether the non-supply of the statement of the person stating about the detenu’s dealing in foreign exchange to the detenu, has affected the right of the detenu to make an effective representation u/Art. 22(5); and whether non-receipt of the representation and the delay in deciding the representation by the Detaining Authority and the Central Government would affect the right of detenu u/Art.22(5) of the Constitution. Headnotes† Constitution of India – Art. 22(5) – Protection against arrest and detention – Right of the detenu to make an effective representation – Detention u/s. 3(1) of the COFEPOSA directing detention of the detenu to prevent him from acting in any manner prejudicial to the augmentation of foreign exchange in future – Non-supply of the statement of the person stating about the detenu’s dealing in foreign exchange, to the detenu – Also, non-receipt of the representation and the delay in deciding the representation by the Detaining Authority and the Central Government – Effect of, on right of the detenu u/Art. 22(5): Held: Though it may not be necessary to furnish copies of each and every document to which a casual or passing reference has been made by the Detaining Authority in making the of detention, it is imperative that every such document which has been relied on by the Detaining Authority and which affects the right of the detenu to make an effective representation u/Art. 22(5) has to be supplied to the detenu – Failure to furnish copies * Author 314 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of such documents as relied on by the Detaining Authority would amount to violation of the fundamental right guaranteed u/Art. 22(5) – Eight factual aspects were taken into consideration by the Detaining Authority while arriving at its subjective satisfaction that the detenu has been engaging himself in activities which adversely affected the augmentation of foreign exchange resources of the country – Statement of the said person is a vital link for transactions involving the detenu – It cannot be said that the statements of the said person are just a casual or a passing reference, on the contrary, they formed the basis for arriving at a subjective satisfaction by the Detaining Authority – Documents relied on by the Detaining Authority which form the basis of the material facts which have been taken into consideration to form a chain of events could not be severed and the High Court was not justified in coming to a finding that despite eschewing of certain material taken into consideration by the Detaining Authority, the detention can be sustained by holding that the Detaining Authority would have arrived at such a subjective satisfaction even without such material – Non-supply of the statements of the said person affected the right of the detenu to make an effective representation u/Art.