As such, the protection claimed 1216 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports by the appellant under Section 17(2)(vi) of the Registration Act, 1908, does not hold good. 5.3. That apart, it is contended by the learned counsel that the present case seems to be a case of collusion between the appellant and Respondent No.2 and the Civil Suit was instituted only with an intent to evade the payment of stamp duty. 5.4. The learned counsel for the Respondent No.1 ultimately submitted that in view of the settled legal position and taking note of the facts and circumstances indicated above, the decision in Mohd. Yusuf v. Rajkumar [(2020) 10 SCC 264] is factually distinguishable and therefore, the appellant is liable to pay stamp duty against mutation of the subject land. 5.5. Thus, according to the learned counsel, the passed by the High Court is a well-considered one and the same does not require any interference in the hands of this Court. 6. We have heard the learned counsel for the appellant and the learned counsel for the Respondent No.1 and also perused the materials available on record. Despite service of notice, none appeared on behalf of the Respondent No.2. 7. There are two issues involved herein viz., Registration of the document and payment of stamp duty, which are separate and distinct concepts. As regards the issue of registration, we may refer to Section 17 of the Registration Act, 1908,7 which deals with the documents of which registration is compulsory and the same reads as follows: “17. Documents of which registration is compulsory.— (1) The following documents shall be registered, if the property to which they relate is situate in a district in which, and if they have been executed on or after the date on which, Act No. XVI of 1864, or the Indian Registration Act, 1866, or the Indian Registration Act, 1871, or the Indian Registration Act, 1877, or this Act came or comes into force, namely:— (a) instruments of gift of immovable property; 7 For short, “the Act, 1908” [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1217 Mukesh v. The State of Madhya Pradesh & Anr. (b) other non-testamentary instruments which purport or operate to create, declare, assign, limit or extinguish, whether in present or in future, any right, title or interest, whether vested or contingent, of the value of one hundred rupees and upwards, to or in immovable property; (c) non-testamentary instruments which acknowledge the receipt or payment of any consideration on account of the creation, declaration, assignment, limitation or extinction of any such right, title or interest; and (d) leases of immovable property from year to year, or for any term exceeding one year, or reserving a yearly rent; [(e) non-testamentary instruments transferring or assigning any decree or of a Court or any award when such decree or or award purports or operates to create, declare, assign, limit or extinguish, whether in present or in future, any right, title or interest, whether vested or contingent, of the value of one hundred rupees and upwards, to or in immovable property:] Provided that the [State Government] may, by published in the [Official Gazette], exempt from the operation of this sub-section any lease executed in any district, or part of a district, the terms granted by which do not exceed five years and the annual rents reserved by which do not exceed fifty rupees.