According to him, he used to live in the same house as the deceased. On the fateful day, he had gone out of the house at 7:00 AM in the morning and returned back to the house at 10:00 AM. When he came back home at 10:00 AM, he found that his daughter X was admitted to a nursing home for consuming poison whereafter the deceased was shifted to Mission Hospital, Mysore for further treatment. On the other hand, PW-2 Meena, who is the sister of the deceased and also daughter of PW-1, deposed that the house belonged to her mother who was already dead on the date 344 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of the incident. Father, PW-1, was living separately with another woman outside marriage. According to her, she along with her two children and her deceased sister were living together in the house at Paduvarahalli (Vinayakanagar) after the death of her husband. She was rather categorical in her cross-examination when she stated that her father PW-1 was not living with them, as he was residing with another woman outside marriage separately. Interestingly, in her cross-examination, she stated that she saw her father in the Mission Hospital at 05:00 PM on 06.07.2000 i.e., on the second day of hospitalization of the deceased. 24. If the version of PW-2 is to be believed then the evidence of PW-1, the first informant, cannot be accepted at all. His statement that he used to stay in the same house as his deceased daughter X was belied by his own daughter PW-2, who stated that it was she and her two children, who used to stay in the house of her mother along with her deceased sister X, after the death of her husband. According to her, she saw PW-1 in the Mission Hospital at 05:00 PM on 06.07.2000. This itself is strange and not at all a normal behaviour of a father whose daughter had consumed poison and was struggling for her life in a hospital. If what PW-2 says is accepted, then PW-1 had gone to see his daughter in the hospital only in the evening of the next day of the incident, hours before her death. Be it stated that the deceased died on 06.07.2000 at 07:30 PM. 25. Both PW-1 and PW-2 claimed that the deceased had told them about the harassment meted out to her by the appellant fifteen days prior to the incident. However, neither of them confronted the appellant nor lodged any complaint before the police. 26. According to the evidence of PW-4 Shantha, another sister of deceased X and daughter of PW-1, the deceased had telephoned her in between 11:00 to 11:15 AM on 05.07.2000 informing her as to what had happened to her while returning home from the school that led her to consume poison to end her life. It was then that PW-4 and her husband PW-3 rushed to the house of the deceased. When they reached the house of the deceased, she was lying on the floor with the phone receiver in a hanging position.