941 Basavaraj v. Indira and Others 2 seeking amendment of the plaint. The reasons assigned to file the belated application seeking amendment of the plaint were that due to oversight and by mistake, the respondents No.1 and 2 failed to seek relief of declaration of the compromise decree being null and void and were unable to deposit the court fee. 7. The law with reference to challenge to a compromise decree is well settled. It was opined in Pushpa Devi Bhagat (Dead) through L.R. Sadhna Rai (Smt.) v. Rajinder Singh and others10 that (i) appeal is not maintainable against a consent decree; (ii) no separate suit can be filed; (iii) consent decree operates as an estoppel and binding unless it is set aside by the court by an on an application under the proviso to XXIII Rule 3 C.P.C. ; and (iv) the only remedy available to a party to a consent decree is to approach the Court which recorded the compromise as it was opined to be nothing else but a contract between the parties superimposed with the seal of approval of the Court. Relevant part of paragraph No. 17 thereof is extracted below: "17. The position that emerges from the amended provisions of 23 can be summed up thus: (i) No appeal is maintainable against a consent decree having regard to the specific bar contained in section 96(3) CPC. (ii) No appeal is maintainable against the of the court recording the compromise (or refusing to record a compromise) in view of the deletion of clause (m) Rule 1 43. (iii) No independent suit can be filed for setting aside a compromise decree on the ground that the compromise was not lawful in view of the bar contained in Rule 3A. (iv) A consent decree operates as an estoppel and is valid and binding unless it is set aside by the court which passed the consent decree, by an on an application under the proviso to Rule 3 of 23. 10 [2006] Suppl. 3 SCR 370 : (2006) 5 SCC 566 942 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Therefore, the only remedy available to a party to a consent decree to avoid such consent decree, is to approach the court which recorded the compromise and made a decree in terms of it, and establish that there was no compromise. In that event, the court which recorded the compromise will itself consider and decide the question as to whether there was a valid compromise or not. This is so because a consent decree, is nothing but contract between parties superimposed with the seal of approval of the court. The validity of a consent decree depends wholly on the validity of the agreement or compromise on which it is made…” 8. Proviso to VI Rule 17 CPC provides that no application for amendment shall be allowed after the trial has commenced, unless the Court comes to the conclusion that in spite of due diligence, the party could not have raised the matter before the commencement of trial.