This practical shortcoming in the approach taken by the Rajasthan High Court is prone to exploitation by investigating agencies for the purpose of putting the personal liberty of the accused in peril. [2024] 9 S.C.R. 295 Dhanraj Aswani v. Amar S. Mulchandani & Anr. 40. The second fallacy in the reasoning of the High Court is that there can be no arrest of an accused in relation to a different offence while he is already in custody in relation to some offence. Although there is no specific provision in the CrPC which provides for the arrest of an accused in relation to an offence while he is already in judicial custody in a different offence, yet this Court explained in Central Bureau of Investigation, Special Investigation Cell-I, New Delhi v. Anupam J. Kulkarni reported in (1992) 3 SCC 141 that even if an accused is in judicial custody in connection with the investigation of an earlier case, the investigating agency can formally arrest him in connection with his involvement in a different case and associate him with the investigation of that other case. In other words, this Court clarified that even when a person is in judicial custody, he can be shown as arrested in respect of any number of other crimes registered elsewhere in the country. Reliance was placed by this Court on the decision of Punjab & Haryana High Court in S. Harsimran Singh v. State of Punjab reported in 1984 Cri LJ 253 wherein it was held that there is no inflexible bar under the law against the re-arrest of a person who is already in judicial custody in relation to a different offence. The High Court held that judicial custody could be converted into police custody by an of the Magistrate under Section 167(2) of the CrPC for the purpose of investigating the other offence. The relevant paragraphs of Anupam J. Kulkarni (supra) are extracted hereinbelow: “11. A question may then arise whether a person arrested in respect of an offence alleged to have been committed by him during an occurrence can be detained again in police custody in respect of another offence committed by him in the same case and which fact comes to light after the expiry of the period of first fifteen days of his arrest. The learned Additional Solicitor-General submitted that as a result of the investigation carried on and the evidence collected by the police the arrested accused may be found to be involved in more serious offences than the one for which he was originally arrested and that in such a case there is no reason as to why the accused who is in magisterial custody should not be turned over to police custody at a subsequent stage of investigation when the information discloses his complicity 296 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports in more serious offences. We are unable to agree. In one occurrence it may so happen that the accused might have committed several offences and the police may arrest him in connection with one or two offences on the basis of the available information and obtain police custody.