11.4 However, the sum and substance of the controversy has to be answered by this Court on the premise that, despite there being clarity in the minds of the authorities under the States as well as the Centre, repeated imposition of imposts in the form of tax or excise duties etc., have brought several cases before this Court for adjudication. Ultimately, those who are in the business of “industrial alcohol” or “intoxicating liquors”, namely, non-potable and potable liquor respectively are clear about the nature of their business and the products that they are dealing with. Hence, I feel that it is incumbent for this Court to enhance the clarity and not create a further legal regime which would cause confusion and legal uncertainty in the economy. Meaning of “intoxicating liquors”: 12. Before embarking on an enquiry in this Reference to understand the scope of the expression “intoxicating liquors” as it appears in Entry 8 – List II, it would be useful to highlight that this Court has relied on pre-constitutional legislations and the Constitution of India while interpreting the scope of the expression “intoxicating liquors”. 2116 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 12.1 At the outset, I may refer to Cooley’s “Constitutional Limitations” [2nd ed. Boston : Little, Brown & Company, p.58], wherein it is explained as follows: “In interpreting clauses we must presume that words have been employed in their natural and ordinary meaning. Says Marshall, Ch. J.: “The framers of the Constitution, and the people who adopted it, must be understood to have employed words in their natural sense, and to have understood what they meant.” This is but saying that no forced or unnatural construction is to be put upon their language; and it seems so obvious a truism that one expects to see it universally accepted without question; but the attempt is so often made by interested subtlety and ingenious refinement to induce the courts to force from these instruments a meaning which their framers never held, that it frequently becomes necessary to re-declare this fundamental maxim.” (underlining by me) Therefore, one task before this Court is to ascertain to what extent “intoxicating liquors” had acquired a natural and ordinary meaning at the time of the Constitution coming into force. 12.2 I may note another cardinal rule of interpretation explained by Sir Maurice Gwyer C.J., of the Federal Court of India in In Re: the Central Provinces and Berar Act No. XIV of 1938, 1939 1 FCR 80, while discussing the principles of interpretation of a constitutional provision as under: “I conceive that a broad and liberal spirit should inspire those whose duty it is to interpret it; but I do not imply by this that they are free to stretch or pervert the language of the enactment in the interests of any legal or constitutional theory, or even for the purpose of supplying omissions or of correcting supposed errors. A Federal Court will not strengthen, but only derogate from, its position, if it seeks to do anything but declare the law; but it may rightly reflect that a Constitution of a Government is a living and organic thing, which of all instruments [2024] 10 S.C.R.