(v) Pertinently, during the course of hearing of the Main Appeals before this Court the petitioner herein/the successful auction purchaser apart from contending that the Borrower’s right to redeem the mortgage had been extinguished under the law, it specifically prayed that not only the impugned of the High Court be set-aside but that the Bank be directed to issue the sale certificate to the Secured Asset and by its extension confirm the sale in its favour as evinced from its written submissions. [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1689 Celir LLP v. Mr. Sumati Prasad Bafna & Ors. (vi) The Borrower being fully aware of the aforesaid prayers and even after having gone through the written submissions of the petitioner never contended that irrespective of whether its right to redeem the mortgage is available under the law or not, the sale at any cost cannot be confirmed in favour of the petitioner due to alleged illegality in the auction process. Not once did the Borrower raise the issue of there being no 30/15-days’ time gap between the notice of sale and the auction nor the issue that as per the terms of the auction, the same was subject to the outcome of the S.A. No. 46 of 2023. (vii) Remarkably, although the Borrower during the course of hearing of the Main Appeals urged that no indulgence of this Court was warranted as it had already complied with the terms of the High Court’s impugned and that the entire matter had been rendered infructuous, yet at the same time, not once did the Borrower even remotely indicate that it was in the process of withdrawing the S.A. No. 46 of 2023 as evinced from its written submissions. (viii) Moreover, the Borrower despite being fully aware of the prayer of the petitioner for seeking confirmation of the sale in its favour and issuance of the sale certificate to the Secured Asset both during the course of hearing and in its written submissions which would have rendered the S.A. No. 46 of 2022 infructuous, it never prayed that in the event sale certificate is issued, its right to pursue S.A. No. 46 of 2022 be preserved, or that the sale certificate be made subject to the outcome of the said application. a. The Decision of this Court in Celir LLP v. Bafna Motors & Ors. (2023 INSC 838) and the Scope of challenge before it. 122. It would now be apposite to understand what was the nature and scope of challenge before this Court in the Main Appeals, and what was ultimately decided in it. As discussed earlier, the Borrower had preferred a writ petition wherein it had sought to subsume the issue arising out of S.A. No. 46 of 2022 pending before the DRT, particularly the challenge to the actions of the Bank under the SARFAESI Act. The writ petition was not a separate remedy distinct from the securitization application pending before the DRT, as the prayers made therein indicate that it was not merely for seeking redemption of mortgage.