Aggrieved by the said common , the appellant filed Crl. Appeal Nos.635/2021 and 647/2021 against the acquittal of accused Nos.1 and 2 and a common appeal viz., Crl. Appeal No.648/2021 against the dismissal of his appeals viz., Crl. Appeal Nos.273/2019 and 304/2019. In and vide the said appeals the appellant prayed to set aside the common dated 19.04.2021 reversing the conviction of accused Nos.1 and 2 and confirming the acquittal of accused Nos.3 and 4. The appellant also sought for enhancement of the sentence of one-year rigorous imprisonment imposed on accused Nos.1 and 2 contending that it is too inadequate. 8. We have already noted that despite the restoration of the conviction for the offence under Section 494 I.P.C., entered against accused Nos.1 and 2 they have not chosen to challenge the same and at the same time they preferred to undergo the sentence imposed therefor. Naturally, in the said circumstances, against the conviction no argument was advanced on behalf of accused Nos.1 and 2 and their contention was that no interference with the impugned is invited in the captioned appeals. 9. Heard Sh. R. Basanth, learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant, and Sh. Ratnakar Das, learned counsel appearing for the respondent. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 789 Baba Natarajan Prasad v. M. Revathi 10. The learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant herein would submit that a scanning of the of the trial Court would reveal that the Court had appropriately appreciated the evidence on record and convicted accused Nos.1 and 2 upon satisfying itself that the ingredients to attract the offence punishable under Section 494 I.P.C., have been made out by the appellant. Furthermore, it is submitted that a bare perusal of the impugned would reveal that the High Court had rightly considered the contentions of the appellant herein against the reversal of their conviction by the First Appellate Court that it was founded on surmises and conjectures. We are of the considered view that no more narrative on the correctness of the reversal of the of the First Appellate Court by the High Court under the impugned is required as the indisputable and undisputed position is that its reversal was accepted by accused Nos.1 and 2 and they had undergone the sentence imposed by the High Court consequent to the reversal of the First Appellate Court’s . We may note here that the learned senior counsel for the appellant would submit that the appellant had not accepted any compensation and in the same breath, would further submit that the appellant did not want any such compensation. 11. In the aforesaid circumstances, the sole question surviving for consideration is whether the High Court was right in not restoring the sentence imposed for the conviction under Section 494 I.P.C., by the trial Court when it accepted the contentions of the appellant and reversed the acquittal of accused Nos.1 and 2 and restored the conviction entered on them by the trial Court. In other words, the question is whether the High Court had shown undeserving leniency and sympathy to accused Nos.1 and 2 even after finding that they have committed the serious offence of bigamy punishable under Section 494 I.P.C., and whether they were let off with a flea- bite sentence and whether an enhancement of sentence is invited?