In a recent decision in Navas @ Mulanavas v. State of Kerala,10 a Full Bench of this Court, after referring to the s in Swamy Shraddananda v. State of Karnataka11 and in V.Sriharan (supra), has emphasised that “while the maximum extent of punishment of either death or life imprisonment is provided for under the relevant provisions, it will be for the courts to decide if in its conclusion, the imposition of death may not be warranted, what should be the number of years of imprisonment that would be judiciously and judicially more appropriate to keep the person under incarceration, by taking into account, apart from the crime itself, from the angle of the commission of such crime or crimes, the interest of the society at large or all other relevant factors which cannot be put in any straitjacket formulae”. Upon conducting a detailed survey of 27 cases, it was ultimately stated in Paragraph 59 as follows: 8 [2015] 14 SCR 613 : (2016) 7 SCC 1 : (2016) 2 SCC (Cri) 695 9 [2023] 4 SCR 669 : (2023) 9 SCC 817 10 [2024] 3 SCR 913 : 2024 SCC OnLine SC 315 11 [2008] 11 SCR 93 : (2008) 13 SCC 767 [2024] 10 S.C.R. 783 Sandeep v. State of Uttarakhand “59.A journey through the cases set out hereinabove shows that the fundamental underpinning is the principle of proportionality. The aggravating and mitigating circumstances which the Court considers while deciding commutation of penalty from death to life imprisonment, have a large bearing in deciding the number of years of compulsory imprisonment without remission, too. As a judicially trained mind pores and ponders over the aggravating and mitigating circumstances and in cases where they decide to commute the death penalty, they would by then have a reasonable idea as to what would be the appropriate period of sentence to be imposed under the Swamy Shraddananda (supra) principle too. Matters are not cut and dried and nicely weighed here to formulate a uniform principle. That is where the experience of the judicially trained mind comes in as pointed out in V. Sriharan (supra). Illustratively in the process of arriving at the number of years as the most appropriate for the case at hand, which the convict will have to undergo before which the remission powers could be invoked, some of the relevant factors that the courts bear in mind are : - (a) the number of deceased who are victims of that crime and their age and gender; (b) the nature of injuries including sexual assault if any; (c) the motive for which the offence was committed; (d) whether the offence was committed when the convict was on bail in another case; (e) the premeditated nature of the offence; (f) the relationship between the offender and the victim; (g) the abuse of trust if any; (h) the criminal antecedents; and whether the convict, if released, would be a menace to the society. Some of the positive factors have been, (1) age of the convict; (2) the probability of reformation of convict; (3) the convict not being a professional killer; (4) the socioeconomic condition of the accused; (5) the composition of the family of the accused and (6) conduct expressing remorse.