It is there and under those circumstances that the subsequent events and actions enter into the considerations of the court. If the court is satisfied on a consideration of the subsequent events that the premises are not required “for the immediate purposes of demolition,” then, notwithstanding the passed, upon a bona fide exercise of the power by the local authority, the court may still refuse to pass a decree. To my mind, that is the decision and principle laid down in 72 Bombay Law Reporter 569 and the of Justice Patel referred earlier.” 16. After holding that the satisfaction contemplated in the aforesaid provision is that of the local authority in a suit for eviction, it has been held that an area of satisfaction is still reserved for the Court. Court has to examine if there is immediacy of the need for demolition. Broadly, the same view has been taken by the Bombay High Court in a later , in the case of Manohar Prabhumal Rajpal -vs- Satara City Municipal Corporation, Satara and Another [(1993) 1 All India Rent Control Journal 81]. In this , the Court dealt with an eviction suit filed under the provisions of Section 13(1)(hhh) of the Bombay Rents, Hotel and Lodging House Rates Control Act, 1947 (“1947 Act”). The said provision is near identical to the provisions of Section 16(1)(k) of the Rent Control Act, 1999. While analysing the said provision of the 1947 Act, the High Court had held that the Trial Court while examining a plea for decree under similar statutory provision cannot sit in appeal over the decision of the local authority once the latter had exercised its power after taking into relevant factors into consideration. In our opinion, these two decisions lay down the correct principles of law for construing the provisions of Section 16(1)(k) of the 1999 Act. We accept the appellant’s argument that the Court trying an eviction proceeding under the aforesaid provision has very limited role in determining as to whether demolition is really necessary or not, but it does not automatically follow therefrom that the Court would mechanically [2024] 1 S.C.R. 1127 Baitulla Ismail Shaikh and Anr. v. Khatija Ismail Panhalkar and Ors. adopt the view of municipal authority of there being urgent need of demolition. The conditions under which a landlord can bring an eviction action under clauses (i) and (k) of Section 16(1) are different in their operations. In respect of an eviction proceeding founded on the former provision, it contemplates a lesser degree of immediacy or urgency, as held in the Constitution Bench which we have referred to above. But the latter provision requires a greater degree of urgency and it is within the jurisdiction of the Court to test this factor, as held in the cases of M.L. Sonvane (supra) and Manohar P. Rampal (supra). Both the fact finding fora failed on this count. 17. On behalf of the appellants, it was brought to our notice that after the first demolition notice on 23.01.2002, three other notices were issued.