Therefore, the learned counsel prayed that the s of conviction and sentence imposed on the appellant should be set aside. 776 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 10.3. In the alternative, it was submitted by the learned counsel for the appellant that the appellant has already suffered incarceration for more than 14 years and therefore, a lenient view may be taken, qua sentence awarded by the Courts below. 11. Per contra, the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent – State contended that it is proved from the evidence of P.W.1 and P.W.2 that the appellant shot the deceased and escaped from the scene of occurrence. PW1 specifically stated that he had seen the appellant, while firing bullet shot on his father; and after causing bullet shot, all the accused persons ran away. P.W.2 - Gufran Ali also clearly stated that it was only the appellant who shot the deceased and not the other co-accused. Adding further, the learned counsel submitted that P.W.2 deposed that the accused Veer Singh having a spear, appellant having a country-made pistol and Dharamveer and Mintu having lathis, came to the house of the deceased and on exhortation given by the co-accused, the appellant fired bullet shot by country-made pistol on the deceased which hit on his right chest and arm. PW4 Akbar stated in his evidence that the country-made pistol was recovered by the police on pointing out by the appellant. It is also proved from the evidence of P.W.2 that at the time of occurrence, there was sufficient source of light for identification of the accused. Hence, the charge framed against the appellant was duly proved by the prosecution. 11.1. With respect to non-examination of some witnesses, it was submitted by the learned counsel that such lapse is insufficient to discard the ocular evidence led by the prosecution. 11.2. Thus, according to the learned counsel, upon proper appreciation of the material evidence, the Sessions Court rightly convicted the appellant of the offence under section 302 r/w 34 IPC as also affirmed by the High Court and hence, there is no requirement to interfere with such concurrent findings rendered by the Courts below. 12. As pointed out earlier, in connection with murder of the father of the complainant on 30.10.1997 at 9.45 p.m., the appellant was subjected to criminal prosecution, along with three accused viz., Veer Singh, Mintu and Dharamveer for the offence under section 302 r/w 34 IPC. By dated 01.01.2003, the case pertaining to the accused Mintu was remitted to the Juvenile Court. The Sessions Court convicted [2024] 10 S.C.R. 777 Sandeep v. State of Uttarakhand the appellant for the said offence, while acquitting the other two accused. Be it noted, for the same crime, the appellant was also charge sheeted for the offence under section 25/27 of the Arms Act, but he was acquitted of the same. 13. In to appreciate the contentions raised on behalf of the respective parties, let us examine the evidence let in before the Sessions Court.