B refuses to accept the shares in Y. He cannot take the shares in X. (b) A, having a lease for a term of years of a house at a rent which he and his representatives are bound to pay during the term, and which is more than the house can be let for, gives to B the lease, and also, as a separate and independent transaction, a sum of money. B refuses to accept the lease. He does not by this refusal forfeit the money. 9. As far back as 1870, the Privy Council in Forbes v. Meer Mahomed Tuquee, 1870 SCC OnLine PC 21 had an occasion to consider broadly a similar case, where the appellant/plaintiff sought resumption of land granted to the defendants. The land was originally granted on the condition of rendering services, which were to keep off the incursion of wild elephants and attend to the safety of tenants in nearby areas. It was the appellants case that since the services are not required any more as the incursion of elephants has itself ceased, the land should revert to him as part of their zamindari. Lower Court decreed the suit in favour of the plaintiff on the grounds, inter alia, that since the defendants therein have ceased to render the services, the land must revert to the plaintiff therein. This decree of the lower court was reversed by the High Court and the matter finally reached the Privy Council where defendants/grantees argued that they had rendered the services till they were required to do so 702 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports and since the elephant incursion has stopped on its own, they are no longer bound by the condition. Privy Council considered that grantees had enjoyed peaceful possession of land for a long period of time and they were in long cultivation of this land, and hence, the agreement was construed in such a manner that the Sunnad was “…partly as a reward for past, partly as an inducement for future, services.” Similarly in the present case, the gift was for past services but even if it is assumed that it was for some past and some future services, there was no occasion for the defendants to render the services as the appellants had left the village and now, when defendants have been enjoying peaceful possession of land for long, resumption of land in favour of appellants will not be justified. The defendants had produced their witness DW-1 before the Court who gave the evidence that the plaintiffs had left the village long ago, immediately after the death of the Donor, which would be only a few years after the gift deed was executed in 1953 and therefore, there was no question of rendering any further service. 10. The conditional oral gift was executed on 13.12.1953 and all land records pertaining to ownership were transferred in the defendant’s names along with possession. The oral gift, as recorded in the Mutation, has a default clause, i.e., “if the donee refuses to render services in that case the land shall revert to the donor or to his heirs”.