21, particularly in cases where such incarceration extends over an unreasonably long period without conclusion of trial – Suspect cannot be held in custody indefinitely and that undertrial incarceration should not amount to punitive detention – Nevertheless, the court to ensure that affluent or influential accused do not obstruct the ongoing investigation, tamper with evidence, or influence witnesses, namely, actions that undermine the fundamental doctrine of a fair trial. [Paras 13, 17] Bail – Grant of bail – General Principles: Held: Grant of bail to be determined based on the unique circumstances of each case, balanced against settled factors such as the gravity of the offence, the nature of the allegations, likelihood of interference with the ongoing investigation, the possibility of evidence tampering, threat or influence over the material witnesses, the societal impact of such release, and the risk of the accused absconding among others. [Para 14] [2024] 12 S.C.R. 629 Partha Chatterjee v. Directorate of Enforcement List of Acts Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988; Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002; Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023. List of Keywords Bail; Former State Education Minister and MLA; Racket of illegal appointment of teachers; Functionaries of West Bengal Board of Primary Education; Appointments of primary school teachers; Arrest; Bail application; Grant of bail; Interference with the ongoing investigation; Evidence tampering; Threat or influence over material witnesses; Societal impact; Impartiality; Prerequisite to Rule of Law; Official positions; Judicial discretion; Mitigating circumstances; Societal harm; Integrity of public institutions; Bribe money; Undertrial incarceration; Punitive detention; Examination of material witness; Furnishing of bail bonds; Prolonged incarceration; Right to life and liberty u/Art.21; Doctrine of a fair trial. Case Arising From CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No. 5266 of 2024 From the and dated 30-04-2024 of the High Court at Calcutta in CRM (SB) No. 180 of 2023 Appearances for Parties Mukul Rohatgi, Sr. Adv., Ms. Misha Rohatgi, Nakul Mohta, Anirban Guhathakurta, Bharat Monga, Ayush Kashyap, Muthu Thangathurai, Advs. for the Appellant. Suryaprakash V. Raju, A.S.G., Zoheb Hossain, Annam Venkatesh, Vivek Gurnani, Animesh Upadhyay, Arvind Kumar Sharma, Ms. Bhawna Gandhi, Ms. Deepika Gahlot, Ms. Aakriti Mishra, Advs. for the Respondent. / of the Supreme Court Leave granted. 2. The Appellant has been a Member of the West Bengal Legislative Assembly since 2001, and was a member of the ruling party of the 630 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports State at the relevant time. He was inducted as a Minister in the West Bengal State cabinet between 2011 and 2022 and seems to have held the post of the State Education Minister since 2016. During his tenure as the State Education Minister, recruitments to various posts like: (i) Primary School Teachers; (ii) Assistant School Teachers; (iii) Group C staff; and (iv) Group D staff, took place from time to time. 3. Writ petitions were filed before the High Court of Calcutta (High Court), questioning the legitimacy of the procedures followed in the aforementioned recruitments. Most pertinently, proceedings were initiated by unsuccessful candidates in the Teachers Eligibility Test (TET) conducted by the West Bengal Board of Primary Education, vide WPA No.