This is because of the acute toxicity and health concerns. That, long term studies would show the adverse effects of glufosinate which may not show up in short term studies. Hence, it is necessary to have adequate studies on the use of glufosinate on plants; (v) that GEAC has failed to deal with illegal plantation of Bt cotton and the same is being grown in the country illegally on commercial basis. That organisations such as Shetkari Sangathan have been encouraging farmers to do illegal planting of Bt brinjal, which GEAC as a regulator has failed to check; (vi) that there is a failure to undertake any socio-economic risk analysis by GEAC with regard to the failure of Bt cotton in accordance with the CBD and the CPB. The need for such an assessment was also highlighted by TEC in its report. Such an assessment was required because farmers across the country have been financially burdened due to the increasing prices of Bt cotton seeds and they have to spend on pesticides and other resources to make the crops more pest-resistant and high-yielding. This has resulted in escalated expenses and has reduced the margin of profit for the farmers; (vii) that the pink bollworm, a major pest to the cotton crop, has developed resistance in last few years which has worried the farmers who have sown Bt cotton seeds. Therefore, cotton yields were stagnant in the last five years due to the fact that the technology was used for yield improvement but not for loss prevention; [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2097 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. (viii) that large quantities of GM processed oil is being imported in the form of canola oil and soyabean oil, which is in violation of the constitutional and legal rights of the citizens under Articles 21 and 14 of the Constitution. That GEAC, in their communication dated 23.02.2018 addressed to the DGFT, had informed that it had not authorised or approved GM soyabean or any other product derived from GM soyabean seeds for import or cultivation in India. If that is so, as to how, subsequently, GM food is being imported to India is not known; (ix) that the Union of India is silent about the measures undertaken in respect of labelling of GM foods, as there are no studies which have been commissioned as regards the consumption of GM foods. 41.2 The petitioners have contended that there is a need for formulation of a national policy of GM crops for the following reasons: (i) that apart from South Western China, North Western Himalayas constitute an important centre where there is enormous diversity in Brassica Juncea forms. Therefore, there are two geographical races of Brassica Juncea, the Chinese pool and the Indian pool. The share of holding by the Chinese pool is 17 per cent and by the Indian pool is 15 per cent; (ii) that the growth of GM crops in India would impact organic food producers having regard to the difficulties in segregation of GM and non-GM foods.