49. In Union of India v. VR Tripathi,86 a two-Judge Bench of this Court speaking through one of us (DY Chandrachud, J) has opined that the legitimacy of a child is a matter of the dignity of the child. When the law recognises a child as legitimate, it aims to shield the child from the legal fallout of illegitimacy as well as the social stigma attached to illegitimate children. It is impermissible to treat children of void marriages, who are statutorily legitimate, as illegitimate. Section 6 of the PCMA therefore serves to afford dignity to children born to parents who had entered into a child marriage. A decree of nullity of marriage passed under Section 3 shall not affect the legitimacy of the child born from such a marriage. 50. Section 7 of the PCMA allows the district court to add to, modify or revoke any which it passes on the maintenance, residency of the woman or the custody and maintenance of the child born from a child marriage based on change in circumstances. Such a change in the of the court may be made at any time, either during the pendency of the petition or after it has been disposed of. 51. These provisions seek to safeguard the interest of the vulnerable stakeholders involved in a child marriage, namely, a child bride and any child born from a child marriage. Parliament, having safeguarded these rights has further stipulated punishments for violation of the PCMA and solemnization of child marriages. ii. Penalties for child marriage 52. The PCMA prescribes punishment for three classes of persons, namely, (i) an adult groom in a child marriage,87 (ii) persons involved in the solemnization of child marriage88 and (iii) persons 86 (2019) 14 SCC 646. 87 Section 9, PCMA. 88 Section 10, PCMA. 1554 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports who promote or permit the solemnization of child marriage.89 The maximum punishment prescribed for all three classes is rigorous imprisonment of two years and a fine of rupees one lakh. Unlike many social legislations, the PCMA does not prescribe a mandatory minimum punishment for committing an offence under the Act. The effect of this is that a judge would be at liberty to nominally punish the accused who are convicted under the Act. The non-prescription of a minimum mandatory sentence has led to ineffective enforcement of the PCMA. 53. Section 15 of the PCMA stipulates that all offences under the Act are cognizable and non-bailable. This is a deviation from CMRA which initially did not make the offence of child marriage cognizable. The effect of this was to make the prevention of child marriage entirely contingent on the private initiative of citizens to file a complaint before the magistrate and be examined under oath. The CMRA also initially required a security bond to be executed by the complainant to sustain their bona fides. This requirement made the enforcement of the Act illusory. The requirement of executing a mandatory security bond was eliminated by the Child Marriage Restraint (Second Amendment) Act 1938.