The test, therefore, always is—whether the act complained of has a reasonable connection with the discharge of official duties by the government or the public servant. If such connection exists and the discharge or exercise of the governmental function is, prima facie, founded on the bona fide of the public servant, the requirement of sanction will be insisted upon so as 4 [2014] 4 SCR 602 : (2014) 11 SCC 388 [2024] 12 S.C.R. 539 Central Bureau of Investigation v. Jagat Ram to act as a filter to keep at bay any motivated, ill-founded and frivolous prosecution against the public servant. However, realising that the dividing line between an act in the discharge of official duty and an act that is not, may, at times, get blurred thereby enabling certain unjustified claims to be raised also on behalf of the public servant so as to derive undue advantage of the requirement of sanction, specific provisions have been incorporated in Section 19(3) of the Prevention of Corruption Act as well as in Section 465 of the Code of Criminal Procedure which, inter alia, make it clear that any error, omission or irregularity in the grant of sanction will not affect any finding, sentence or passed by a competent court unless in the opinion of the court a failure of justice has been occasioned. This is how the balance is sought to be struck.” 9. Apart from the clear statutory prescription of Section 19 of the Act, as informed by relevant court precedents, the High Court has also lost sight of Section 465 of the Criminal Procedure Code, 19735, which provides that a sentence or an passed by the court of competent jurisdiction shall not be reversed or altered by a court of appeal, confirmation or revision on account of any error or irregularity in any sanction for the prosecution unless in the opinion of the court, a failure of justice has in fact been occasioned thereby. Section 465 of the Cr.P.C is as under: “Sec. 465 Finding or sentence when reversible by reason of error, omission or irregularity:- (1) Subject to the provisions hereinbefore contained, on finding, sentence or passed by a Court of competent jurisdiction shall be reversed or altered by a Court of appeal, confirmation or revision on account of any error, omission or irregularity in the complaint, summons, warrant, proclamation, , or other proceedings before or during trial or in any inquiry or other proceedings under this Code, or any error, or irregularity in any sanction for the prosecution unless in the opinion of that Court, a failure of justice has in fact been occasioned thereby. 5 Hereinafter referred to as ‘Cr.P.C’. 540 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (2) In determining whether any error, omission or irregularity in any proceeding under this Code, or any error, or irregularity in any sanction for the prosecution has occasioned a failure of justice, the Court shall have regard to the fact whether the objection could and should have been raised at an earlier stage in the proceedings.” 10.