They did nothing of this sort. 33.9. In fact, respondent No.2 did not make any bone of contention with regard to the registration process and the registration of the documents after 26 years by challenging the same before 2324 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the same authority or any superior authority or any Court of law. Registration of a document carries with it presumption of correctness until and unless the same was challenged by way of independent proceeding or a counter claim. In the absence of any such claim, the sale deed in favour of the appellants has to be treated as a valid document. 33.10. Much stress has been laid by Mr. Ranjit Kumar, and Mr. Huzefa Ahmadi learned senior counsel appearing for respondents that once the appellant No.1 admitted that he was a minor at the time of execution of the sale deed and that his age was incorrectly recorded as 18 years in the sale deed, the sale deed would be void ab initio and would not transfer any right, title or interest in the favour of the appellants. This submission is again liable to be rejected. The sale deed was in favour of two persons, appellant No.1 as also his minor brother, Ambrish who was mentioned to be a minor in the sale deed and was represented through his natural guardian, his mother. The sale deed, therefore, in any case, would be valid in so far as the rights of Ambrish are concerned. Respondent No.2 for 26 years never came forward to return the sale consideration and for rescinding the contract of sale. His intentions are clearly tainted with malice and dishonesty. His conduct throughout the trial and at appeal stage also reflects the same. 33.11. The issue of minority of appellant no.1 would also not be of any relevance for the reason that even if he was a minor at the time of the execution of the sale deed and he had so stated honestly in his deposition, the fact remains that the mother of appellant No.1 was already representing his younger brother as guardian who was stated to be a minor in the sale deed. She was also the natural guardian of appellant no.1, and therefore, it would be deemed that she was acting on behalf of both her minor sons. 33.12. The High Court recorded the findings that the fact that the purchasers were minors would not per se affect the validity of the sale deed for the reason that the second purchaser Ambrish who was mentioned as a minor in the sale deed was represented through his natural guardian and mother Smt. Malti Premkumar Mishra and also that the age of the [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2325 Kaushik Premkumar Mishra & Anr. v. Kanji Ravaria @ Kanji & Anr. first purchaser Kaushik was mentioned to be 18 years in the sale deed. 33.13. The respondent no.2 appears to be a dishonest person. We are saying so for very strong reasons, which are apparent from his conduct not only during the trial but also acting in collusion with respondent no.1 to execute the sale deed for the same land which he had already transferred.