(4) Notwithstanding anything contained in the proviso to sub-section (2) and sub-section (3), if a declaration, is not made, within the period referred to in sub-section (2) (or having been made, the aforesaid period expired on the commencement of the Maharashtra Regional and Town Planning (Amendment) Act, 1993, the State Government may make a fresh declaration for acquiring the land under the provisions of the Right and Fair Compensation 860 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013, in the manner provided by sub-sections (2) and (3) of this section, subject to the modification that the market value of the land shall be the market value at the date of declaration in the Official Gazette, made for acquiring the land afresh.” In this case, we are concerned with Section 126(1)(b) of the MRTP Act. 12.1 Under Section 126(1) of the MRTP Act, when land is required or reserved for any of the public purposes specified in any plan or scheme under the Act at any time, the Planning Authority, the Development Authority, or as the case may be, any Appropriate Authority may acquire the land by agreement by paying an amount agreed to landowner or lessee [Section 126(1)(a)]; the second mode is, in lieu of any such amount as mentioned above, by granting the landowner or the lessee, subject, however, to the lessee paying the lessor or depositing with the Planning Authority, the Development Authority or Appropriate Authority, as the case may be, for payment to the lessor, an amount equivalent to the value of the lessor’s interest to be determined by any of the said Authorities concerned on the basis of the principles laid down in the Land Acquisition Act, 1894, Floor Space Index (FSI) or Transferable Development Rights (TDR): (i) against the area of land surrendered free of cost and free from all encumbrances, and also (ii) further additional FSI or TDR against the development or construction of the amenity on the surrendered land at his cost, as the Final Development Control Regulations prepared in that behalf provide [Section 126(1)(b)]. The third mode being by acquisition of the land under the relevant Act [Section 126(1)(c)]. 12.2 Thus, it is open to the landowner to surrender the plot of land “free of cost” and “free from all encumbrances” to the appropriate authority who may acquire the land by granting to the owner FSI or TDR against the area of the surrendered land. The scheme further provides for additional FSI or TDR against the development of construction of amenities (for which the plot is shown reserved in the plan) by the owner at his own cost. [2024] 9 S.C.R. 861 Kukreja Construction Company & Others v. State of Maharashtra & Others 12.3 In Godrej & Boyce I, the appellants therein had their plots covered under the development plan as reserved for roads, which they voluntarily surrendered. In addition, they constructed on their respective pieces of land the development plan roads at their own cost and as per the specifications stipulated in the relevant rules.