(iv) The testimony of Usha’s sister Sudha (PW-10) establishes that the accused appellant used to quarrel with Usha suspecting her infidelity and there were repeated altercations between the spouses. They had indulged in a fight just four days prior to the incident. This also establishes the motive attributed to the appellant to commit the offence. (v) That there is no evidence on record to show that accused appellant and Usha were divorced except a bald statement made in this regard in the confession note (Exhibit PW-12/E). (vi) That the report (Exhibit PW-12/F) submitted by the handwriting expert, Deepa Verma (PW-24) proves that the handwriting on the [2024] 6 S.C.R. 325 Sukhpal Singh v. NCT of Delhi confession note (Exhibit PW-12/E) which was recovered from the crime scene matched with the handwriting on the two admitted documents (Exhibits PW-12/C and PW-12/D) collected from the employer of the accused appellant and specimen handwritings (Exhibits PW-5/D, PW-5/E and PW-5/F) given by the accused appellant to the police which in turn concludes the fact that the confession note is in the handwriting of the accused. 21. He urged that the prosecution has proved the case against the accused appellant by leading cogent and convincing chain of incriminating circumstantial evidence and implored the court to dismiss the appeal. 22. We have given our thoughtful consideration to the submissions advanced by the learned counsel for the parties and have gone through the s of the trial Court and the High Court as well as the evidence available on record. Discussion and Conclusion: - 23. The main thrust of submissions advanced by Shri Ambreesh Kumar Aggarwal, learned legal aid counsel representing the appellant so as to criticise the findings of the trial Court and the High Court was that both the Courts erred in holding that the statement of complainant Ashok Kumar Pathak had been recorded on oath in the proceedings under Section 299 CrPC. As per Shri Aggarwal, only the Section 161 CrPC statement of complainant Ashok Kumar Pathak was exhibited by the Investigating Officer (PW-13) and he never stepped into the witness box. 24. In to verify this fervent submission of learned counsel for the appellant, we carefully sifted through the record and find that the submission so made is without any foundation. The accused appellant was absconding and could not be arrested and thus, the Investigating Officer (PW-13) made all possible efforts including the procurement of warrant of arrest, attempt to serve the same at the village of the appellant, i.e., Khatta, U.P. He tried to locate the accused appellant at various locations, without any success. The warrant which is available on record clearly bears the address of the accused appellant as Khatta, Prahladpur, Bagpat, U.P. 25. Even proceedings of proclamation and attachment were undertaken under Sections 82 and 83 CrPC but to no avail because the accused 326 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports appellant had vanished after the crime and was not traceable at the crime scene or at his known address i.e.