(2) If in the opinion of the High Court, returned candidate has been guilty by an agent, other than his election agent, of any corrupt practice but the High Court is satisfied – (a) that no such practice was committed at the election by the candidate or his election agent, and every such correct practice was committed contrary to the s, and without the consent, of the candidate, or his election agent; (b) ***** (omitted by Act 58 of 1958) (c) that the candidate and his election agent took all reasonable means for preventing the commission of corrupt practises at the election; and (d) that in all other respects the election was free from any corrupt practice on the part of the candidate or any of his agents, then the High Court may decide that the election of the return candidate is not void. 68 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of an election petition, it appears that there is an equality of votes between candidates. Sections 103 to 107 deal with other procedural aspects which are not relevant for the case on hand. 13. Chapter IV deals with withdrawal and abatement of election petition, whereas Chapter IVA deals with appeals. Chapter V deals with costs and security of costs. 14. Part VII of the 1951 Act enlists corrupt practices and electoral offences. 15. A plain reading of Section 87 of the 1951 Act would indicate that, subject to the provisions of the 1951 Act and of any rules made thereunder, an election petition is to be tried, as nearly as may be, in accordance with the procedure applicable under the CPC to the trial of suits. VI Rule 1 of CPC defines pleading as a plaint and a written statement. The object and purpose of pleadings is to ensure that the litigants come to trial with all issues clearly defined. Its object is also to ensure that each side is fully alive to the questions that are likely to be raised or considered so that they may have an opportunity of placing the relevant evidence appropriate to the issues before the Court for its consideration. A case not specifically pleaded can be considered by the court only where the pleadings in substance, though not in specific terms, contain the necessary averments to make out a particular case, and the issues framed also generally cover the question involved and the parties proceed on the basis that such case was at issue and had led evidence thereon (see Bachhaj Nagar v. Nilima Mandal and Anr.14). 16. Replication, though not a pleading as per Rule 1 of VI, is permissible with the leave of the Court under VIII Rule 9 of the CPC, which gives a right to file a reply in defence to set-off or counter-claim set up in the written statement. However, if filing of replication is allowed by the Court, it can be utilised for the purposes of culling out issues. But mere non-filing of a replication would not mean that there has been admission of the facts pleaded in the written statement (see K. Laxmanan v. Thekkayil Padmini and Ors.15).