The respondent no 2 did not approach the applicant in fact it was the applicant who messaged and abused the respondent no.2 and communicated said indecent things about respondent no.2. The applicant alleged regarding depicting whatsapp status, but the respondent no2 denies communicating the status to the applicant. It is pertinent to mention here that Whatsapp status is not a message and is not sent or deliver to a specific person. It requires positive act by viewer to look into somebody status which is his own privacy. If someone is seeing a whatsapp status than that person is invading/barging into the privacy of other person who has allegedly depicted his status. Thus it cannot be said that respondent no.2 somehow threatened or abused the applicant. It is a case where the applicant is hoodwinking the whole process, moreover the applicant has not mentioned on which dates these status were uploaded, the applicant is just using these random screenshot to file a frivolous case.” 9. Hence, in the attending facts, the short question that falls for consideration of this Court is whether the contents of the affidavit filed before the High Court, as taken note of in the impugned , constitutes an offence under Section 193 IPC, as defined in Section 191 IPC? 10. Section 191 IPC which defines the offence, reads as under :- “191. Giving false evidence. Whoever, being legally bound by an oath or by an express provision of law to state the truth, or being bound by law to make a declaration upon any subject, makes any statement which is false, and which he either knows or believes to be false or does not believe to be true, is said to give false evidence. Explanation 1.— A statement is within the meaning of this section, whether it is made verbally or otherwise. [2024] 8 S.C.R. 339 James Kunjwal v. State of Uttarakhand & Anr. Explanation 2.— A false statement as to the belief of the person attesting is within the meaning of this section, and a person may be guilty of giving false evidence by stating that he believes a thing which he does not believe, as well as by stating that he knows a thing which he does not know.” Section 193 IPC, under which the appellant is sought to be prosecuted is extracted below for reference. “193. Punishment For False Evidence. Whoever intentionally gives false evidence in any stage of a judicial proceeding, or fabricates false evidence for the purpose of being used in any stage of a judicial proceeding, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to seven years, and shall also be liable to fine; and whoever intentionally gives or fabricates false evidence in any other case, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to three years, and shall also be liable to fine. Explanation 1. - A trial before a Court-martial is a judicial proceeding. Explanation 2. - An investigation directed by law preliminary to a proceeding before a Court of Justice, is a stage of a judicial proceeding, though that investigation may not take place before a Court of Justice.” 11.