3 to 5 claimed that Appellant Nos. 1 and 3 are the son and daughter, respectively, of Muthusamy Gounder through Appellant No. 2/Chinnammal. The Appellants further averred that upon the demise of the propositus, the parties to the suit have inherited the plaint schedule properties as the legal heirs of the late Muthusamy Gounder. The Appellants and other legal heirs of Muthusamy Gounder were in joint possession and enjoyment of the plaint schedule properties. Therefore, the Appellants, along with other legal heirs/successors of Muthusamy Gounder, pray for partition of the coparcenary headed by Muthusamy Gounder. The Trial Court considered the following issues: - 1. Whether the Plaintiffs are entitled to the reliefs claimed in the suit? 2. Whether Defendant Nos. 1 to 5 are also entitled to shares as legal heirs of the deceased Muthusamy Gounder in his estate? 3. To what relief? 418 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 7. The oral evidence of PW1 to 3 and DW1 to 5 was adduced. Ex. A-1 to A-10 and Ex. B-1 to B-10 were marked by the parties. 8. The Trial Court examined the claim for partition from the perspective of the existence of a coparcenary/joint Hindu family and that the extended family of Muthusamy Gounder through Respondent No. 2 and Appellant No. 2 as wives of Muthusamy Gounder. In fine, the Trial Court examined the existence of coparcenary with Respondent Nos. 1 and 2 and Appellant No. 1, and the status of marriage of Respondent No. 2 and Appellant No. 2 with Muthusamy Gounder, and a coparcenary existed with the extended family members. The Trial Court held that Respondent No. 4 herein admittedly is the first and legally wedded wife of Muthusamy Gounder. Appellant No. 2 and Respondent No. 2 did not produce evidence to prove the factum of the marriage with Muthusamy Gounder. The evidence adduced by the Appellants or Respondent Nos. 1 and 2, does not inspire the confidence of the Court to accord to them the status as wives of Muthusamy Gounder. The Trial Court records a categorical finding that Appellant No. 2 and Respondent No. 2 are not the wives of Muthusamy Gounder, and consequently, the status of the children through the extended family as coparceners was rejected. 9. Appeal Nos. 394 and 929 of 1991 were filed before the High Court of Judicature at Madras by Respondent Nos. 1 and 2 and the Appellants herein. Through the impugned , the appeals filed at the instance of extended family members of Muthusamy Gounder, stood dismissed. The High Court, in all particulars, accepted the view of the Trial Court on the status of marriage claimed by Appellant No. 2 and Respondent No. 2 as not established by the parties and the claim for partition on the footing of the existence of the coparcenary with the parties of the suit would not arise. The appeals stood dismissed by the common impugned dated 26.09.2006. 9.1 Hence, the Civil Appeal at the instance of the Appellants in Appeal No.