We are not concerned with these two contingencies in the present case. 15. If the creditor recovers a part of the amount guaranteed by the surety from the surety and agrees not to proceed against the surety for the balance amount, that will not extinguish the remaining debt payable by the principal borrower. In such a case, the creditor can proceed against the principal borrower to recover the balance amount. Similarly, if there is a compromise or settlement between 2158 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the creditor and the surety to which the principal borrower is not a consenting party, the liability of the borrower qua the creditor will remain unaffected. The provisions regarding the discharge of the surety discussed above show that involuntary acts of the principal borrower or creditor do not result in the discharge of surety. 16. In the case of Lalit Kumar Jain,8 this Court dealt with the legal effect of approving the resolution plan in CIRP of the corporate debtor on the liability of the surety. This is in the context of Section 135 of the Contract Act, which provides that if the creditor compounds with or gives time or agrees not to sue the principal debtor, it amounts to discharge of the surety. In paragraphs 122 to 125 of the said decision, this Court held thus: “122. It is therefore, clear that the sanction of a resolution plan and finality imparted to it by Section 31 does not per se operate as a discharge of the guarantor’s liability. As to the nature and extent of the liability, much would depend on the terms of the guarantee itself. However, this Court has indicated, time and again, that an involuntary act of the principal debtor leading to loss of security, would not absolve a guarantor of its liability. In Maharashtra SEB [Maharashtra SEB v. Official Liquidator, (1982) 3 SCC 358] the liability of the guarantor (in a case where liability of the principal debtor was discharged under the Insolvency law or the Company law), was considered. It was held that in view of the unequivocal guarantee, such liability of the guarantor continues and the creditor can realise the same from the guarantor in view of the language of Section 128 of the Contract Act, 1872 as there is no discharge under Section 134 of that Act. This Court observed as follows : (SCC pp. 362-63, para 7) “7. Under the bank guarantee in question the Bank has undertaken to pay the Electricity Board any sum up to Rs 50,000 and in to realise it all that the Electricity Board has to do is to make a demand. Within forty-eight hours of such demand the Bank has to pay the amount to the Electricity Board which is not under any obligation to prove any default on [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2159 BRS Ventures Investments Ltd. v. SREI Infrastructure Finance Ltd. & Anr. the part of the Company in liquidation before the amount demanded is paid. The Bank cannot raise the plea that it is liable only to the extent of any loss that may have been sustained by the Electricity Board owing to any default on the part of the supplier of goods i.e.