This status of Air India continued to subsist on the date when the subject batch of writ petitions (supra) under Article 226 of the Constitution of India were filed before the High Court invoking writ jurisdiction, against respondent No.3(AIL). 5. However, on 08th October, 2021, the Government of India announced that it had accepted the bid of Talace India Pvt Ltd. to purchase its 100% shares in respondent No. 3 (AIL). Subsequently, on 27th January, 2022 pursuant to the share purchase agreement signed with Talace India Pvt. Ltd., 100% equity shares of the Government of India in respondent No. 3(AIL) were purchased by the said private company and respondent No. 3(AIL) was privatised and disinvested. Therefore, the writ petitions were maintainable on the date of institution but the question that arose before the High Court was whether they continued to be maintainable as on the date the same were finally heard. 3 Constituted by the respondent No.1 i.e. Union of India(through its Ministry of Civil Aviation) to harmonize the differential service conditions of AIL and Indian Airlines Ltd, which came to be merged. 4 Filed on 14th June, 2011 5 Filed on 19th March, 2013 [2024] 6 S.C.R. 939 Mr. R.S. Madireddy and Anr. etc. v. Union of India & Ors. etc. 6. Learned Judges of the Division Bench of the Bombay High Court, while placing reliance upon the decisions of Tarun Kumar Banerjee v. Bharat Aluminium Co. Ltd. and Another 6; Mahant Pal Singh v. Union of India and Others7; Padmavathi Subramaniyan and Others v. Ministry of Civil Aviation Government of India rep by its Secretary and Others8; and few more decisions of the Delhi High Court and Gujarat High Court concluded that with the privatisation of respondent No. 3(AIL), jurisdiction of the High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution of India to issue a writ to respondent No. 3(AIL), particularly in its role as an employer, did not subsist and disposed of the writ petitions vide common impugned dated 20th September 2022, which is assailed in the present appeals by special leave. Submissions and contentions on behalf of the appellants: - 7. Shri Sanjay Singhvi, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants submitted that the right to seek remedy stands crystallised on the date of institution of proceedings and though subsequent events can be considered, it is a well settled tenet of law that such subsequent events can be looked at only to advance equity rather than to defeat it. Reliance in this regard was placed by learned senior counsel upon Pasupuleti Venkateswarlu v. Motor & General Traders9; Beg Raj Singh v. State of U.P. and Ors.10. He urged that different view is permissible only in exceptional circumstances and in no event can a party be divested of its substantive rights on account of such subsequent event as laid down in Rajesh D. Darbar and Others v. Narasingrao Krishnaji Kulkarni and Others11. The relevant extract of Rajesh D. Darbar (supra) as relied upon by the learned senior counsel for the appellants is extracted hereinbelow: - “4.