70. In that view of the matter, we find that the first of NGT is liable to be set aside on the short ground that it has transgressed its limitations and attempted to encroach upon the field reserved for the delegatee to enact a piece of delegated legislation. We are of the considered view that when the TCP Act empowers the State Government and the Director to exercise the powers to enact a piece of delegated legislation, the NGT could not have imposed fetters on such powers and directed it to exercise its powers in a particular manner. D. Whether observations in Para 47 of the Mantri Techzone Private Limited (supra) would operate as res judicata? 71. A reliance in this respect is placed by respondent No.1 on the of this Court in the case of Mantri Techzone Private Limited (supra). It will be relevant to refer to the arguments advanced by the State Government and the other private parties in the said case, which read thus: 1014 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “27. The learned Advocate General, Shri Udaya Holla, appearing for the appellant State of Karnataka in CAs Nos. 4923-24 of 2017, has submitted that the State of Karnataka is also aggrieved by the of NGT to the extent of setting aside the buffer zone in respect of waterbodies and drains specified in the Revised Master Plan, 2015, and enlargement of the buffer zone in respect of lakes and Rajakaluves. It is also aggrieved by the of NGT directing the authorities to demolish all the offending constructions raised/built in the buffer zone, which will result in demolition of 95% of the buildings in Bengaluru. It is submitted that the Revised Master Plan is statutory in nature and NGT has no power, competence or jurisdiction to consider the validity or vires of any statutory provision/ regulation. Therefore, the of NGT to that extent is liable to be set aside. 28. The learned Senior Counsel appearing for the appellants in other cases, have also supported the arguments of the learned Advocate General. It was contended that the Revised Master Plan provides for a 30 m buffer zone around the lakes and a buffer zone of 50 m, 25 m and 15 m from the primary, secondary and tertiary drains, respectively to be measured from the centre of the drain. Vide the impugned , NGT has revised these buffer zones and has directed that the buffer zone be maintained for 75 m around the lake and 50, 35 and 25 m respectively from the primary, secondary and tertiary drain, respectively. Variation of buffer zone, as directed by NGT is without any legal and scientific basis and has the effect of amending the Revised Master Plan, 2015, without there being any challenge to the same or any relief sought with respect to the said Revised Master Plan.” 72. It will be relevant to refer to the contention made by the counsel appearing on behalf of the applicants in the said case, which reads thus: “29.