As a sequel thereto, the appeal deserves outright dismissal. Analysis And Reasons 11. The crux of the dispute is whether the first respondent, in terms of the Advertisement, was eligible to be awarded half a mark (0.5) under the category of ‘experience’ vis-à-vis her engagement as outsourced manpower for the concerned time period, in light of the Rules and Circulars of the SoH as adopted by the University. 12. It is an admitted fact that the first respondent was appointed under Part I of the Outsourcing Policy, which relates only to employment made when no sanctioned post exists. Although the first respondent has urged that the University has not disclosed the existence of a sanctioned post either before the High Court or this Court, nothing turns on it. It is not in dispute that the first respondent was never directly appointed by the University on any sanctioned post of Clerk. Having regard to the Outsourcing Policy, through which the first respondent came to be appointed, we shall proceed with our analysis resting on the premise that no sanctioned post of Clerk existed at the time when the first respondent was first engaged in the University through the service provider or, even if one existed, the first respondent could not have been accommodated there at the relevant time. 13. The point that would engage our consideration in this case is whether the noun ‘post’ in the subject advertisement would invariably mean a sanctioned post and whether a candidate would not be eligible for mark for experience if he/she has not worked on a regular/sanctioned post. 14. We have not been referred by the parties to any precedent having a direct bearing on the question arising for decision here. However, prior to looking at the Advertisement, it would be worthwhile to bear in mind what this Court held in the decisions noted below. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 963 Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University, Hisar & Anr. v. Monika & ors. 15. In Dr. Kumar Bar Das v. Utkal University,10 a case concerning the provision of marks for experience in connection with recruitment, a 3-Judge Bench of this Court noted that one must not apply the words in the advertisement in a technical sense but must rather give effect to the words mentioned in the advertisement: “29. No doubt, in clause 9 of the endowment, it was stated that the procedure for selection would be the same as followed for a Professor’s selection. This, in our view, was referable merely to the procedure. If the advertisement stressed on the research experience also and not merely the teaching experience, the column in the pro forma for awarding marks when it referred to ‘teaching experience’ has to be treated as one meant to cover teaching and research experience. The Selection Committee and the Syndicate followed the right procedure but the Chancellor went wrong in confining himself to the actual language of the pro forma and in omitting to give effect to the words ‘and/ or research experience’ contained in the advertisement and the UGC Regulations.