Digital Supreme Court Reports disposing of other objections observing that the lands claimed to be ‘abadi’ merely have temporary and illegal constructions, and no person was residing there and finally, the Collector noted that all the objections were disposed of “in aforementioned terms” – Also, the absence of a formal rejection in the case of a few objections would not per se vitiate the acquisition proceedings as the non-consideration of such objections is inconsequential, because even if it was an ‘abadi’ land, there is nothing in law that bars the State Government from acquiring the same – Exemption of such lands from the acquisition is a matter of State Policy and depends on the government’s discretion – If the State Government opines that the land is needed for a larger public purpose and development projects, such land can be acquired, notwithstanding the fact that it was a residential property – Further, also in the instant case, admittedly the acquisition proceedings attained finality, most landowners accepted compensation and are deemed to have acquiesced to the acquisition process whereafter, significant investment had been made into the development projects – Thus, even if it is accepted that a handful of respondents did not get a fair enquiry u/s. 5A, the same may not be a sufficient ground to annul the acquisition process as substantial compliance had already been made. [Paras 47-52] Land Acquisition Act, 1894 – s.4 – Notification under – Challenge to acquisition proceedings by the respondents- landowners who were subsequent purchasers – If such respondents had a locus: Held: No – Notification issued u/s.4 creates an impediment on the transfer of title in a property – Subsequent purchasers do not acquire an unencumbered title over the property and they deliberately run the risk of securing a defective title – Thus, the respondents who clandestinely got sale deeds executed with or without collusion with the Registering Authorities after the acquisition process had commenced and/or whose names were not recorded in the revenue records before issuance of notification u/s. 4 of the Act, were also denuded of any cause of action u/s. 5A to object against the acquisition proceedings – No cause of action ever accrued in favour of the respondents in these cases to invoke writ jurisdiction of the High Court. [Paras 26, 28] Land Acquisition Act, 1894 – s.5A – Construction and import – Discussed. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1005 New Okhla Industrial Development Authority v. Darshan Lal Bohra & Ors. Land Acquisition Act, 1894 – s.5A – Notices when not served as per the procedure, acquisition proceedings if get vitiated: Held: Even in cases where the notices were not served as per the procedure known in law, that by itself may not vitiate the acquisition proceedings unless it is shown that severe prejudice was caused to the landowners – Even when there is no material to show that the landowner was heard, it would not invalidate the acquisition proceedings if the objections are duly considered. [Para 43] Case Law Cited Talson Real Estate (P) Ltd. v. State of Maharashtra (2007) 13 SCC 186; Rajasthan State Industrial Development & Investment Corpn.