While it would be necessary to consider the facts of the case to determine whether the inadvertent mistake was due to any action of the court it would be appropriate to find that the ultimate permission to deposit the challaned amount is that of the court. 21. Proceeding as above, in the instant case we find that the decree did not quantify the purchase money having only said “Rs 41,082 less the amount of ‘zare panjum’ ”. Of course, ‘certum est quod certum reddi potest’— that is certain which can be rendered certain. The amount of ‘zare-panjum’ was not specified. Parties do not controvert that it was one fifth. But the amount was not calculated by the court itself. Inadvertent error crept in arithmetical calculation. The deficit of Rs 100 was a very small fraction of the total payable amount of Rs 33,682 which was paid very much within the fixed time, and there was no reason, except for the mistake, as to why he would not have paid this Rs 100 also within time. The appellants’ application with the challan annexed was allowed by court officials without pointing out the mistake. The amount 894 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports was deposited and even possession of the property was delivered to the appellant. The Senior Subordinate Judge allowed the application made by appellant in exercise of the discretion vested in him apparently on the view that sufficient cause had been out for non-deposit of Rs 100. This , however, as seen above, was set aside by the High Court in a civil revision under Section 115 CPC. xx xx xx 25. In this view of the matter there seems to be no manner of doubt that the Senior Subordinate Judge had jurisdiction to extend the time under Section 148 CPC on sufficient cause being made out. The first condition precedent to enable the High Court to exercise its revisional jurisdiction under Section 115 CPC was, therefore, lacking. Likewise, nothing has been brought to our notice on the basis of which it could be said that the discretion exercised by the Senior Subordinate Judge was in breach of any provision of law or that he committed any error of procedure which was material and may have affected the ultimate decision. That being so, the High Court had no power to interfere with the of the Senior Subordinate Judge, however profoundly it may have differed from the conclusions of that Judge on questions of fact or law. 26. On the facts and circumstances of the case we feel justified in allowing this appeal, setting aside the impugned of the High Court, and in restoring that of the Senior Subordinate Judge allowing 10 days’ time to deposit the balance of Rs 100 exercising power under Section 148 CPC on facts of the case. If the amount has not already been deposited, it shall be deposited within 30 days from today and the respondents shall withdraw the same according to law. The appeal is accordingly allowed, but under the facts and circumstances of the case, without any as to costs.” 16.