Such statements are relevant whether the person who made them was or was not, at the time when they were made, under expectation of death, and whatever may be the nature of the proceeding in which the cause of his death comes into question. [2024] 6 S.C.R. 757 Rajendra S/o Ramdas Kolhe v. State of Maharashtra 26.1. Section 32 says that statements made by a person who is dead or who cannot be found etc., be it in written form or oral, are themselves relevant facts. As per situation(1), when the relevant facts relate to the cause of death, such a statement would be relevant whether the person who made it was or was not at the time of making the statement under expectation of death. Such a statement would be relevant whatever may be the nature of the proceedings in which the cause of his death comes into question. The relevancy is not confined to the cause of his death but also to the circumstances of the transaction which resulted in his death. 27. In Khushal Rao vs. State of Bombay1, this Court examined the principles governing acceptance of dying declaration. After examining the relevant provisions of the Evidence Act and various judicial pronouncements, this Court laid down the following conclusions: (i) it cannot be laid down as an absolute rule of law that a dying declaration cannot form the sole basis of conviction unless it is corroborated; (ii) each case must be determined on its own facts, keeping in view the circumstances in which the dying declaration was made; (iii) it cannot be laid down as a general proposition that a dying declaration is a weaker kind of evidence than other pieces of evidence; (iv) a dying declaration stands on the same footing as another piece of evidence. It has to be judged in the light of surrounding circumstances and with reference to the principles governing weighing of evidence; (v) a dying declaration which has been recorded by a competent Magistrate in the proper manner stands on a much higher footing than a dying declaration which depends upon oral testimony which may suffer from all the infirmities of human memory and human character; (vi) in to test the reliability of a dying declaration, the court has to keep in view various circumstances including the condition 1 [1958] 1 SCR 552 : AIR 1958 SC 22 758 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of the person concerned to make such a statement; that it has been made at the earliest opportunity and was not the result of tutoring by interested parties. 28. The above conclusions were reiterated by this Court in Paniben (Smt.) vs. State of Gujarat2. This Court declared that there is neither any rule of law nor of prudence that a dying declaration cannot be acted upon without corroboration. However, the court has to scrutinize the dying declaration carefully and must ensure that the declaration is not the result of tutoring, prompting or imagination; the deceased should be in a fit and proper state to make the declaration.