However, he stated that he was in support of the principles and the spirit underlying the amendment. In his opinion, the Constituent Assembly should not have refrained from incorporating in the Constitution, at least in the form of a Directive Principle, that the ‘means of production’ and the natural or material resources shall belong to the community and through it to the State. The ultimate goal, he urged, must be that all means of production and the ‘gifts of nature’ which belong to the country should belong to the State or the community. He opined: “…But I may state for the information of the House that, so far as the principles which underlie his amendment are concerned, I support them. The spirit of it also I support. I fail to see why this august Assembly which meets only once in every country, is not keen to the extent of clearly and boldly incorporating in this article that the means of production and the natural or material resources of the country shall belong to the community and through it to the State. I cannot understand this, though the large majority of the amendments, if you scrutinise them, will be found to favour the principles underlying the amendment of Professor Shah. I cannot understand how it is that the Congress, the predominantly majority party here, is not pressing this thing.” “… After all this is a directive principle. I am not asking you to incorporate it so that the capitalists and the big purses of the country may not have the opportunity to work the mines and the minerals. This is only a directive principle. Are we not going to keep it as our goal that all means of productions and the gifts of Nature which belong to this vast country should belong to the State or to the community? I am sorry, Sir, that the bogey has been raised by the capitalists that if you talk like this they will cease to produce. I know the large majority of friends here will not be deterred by this bogey raised by the capitalists, because production is not for the welfare of the community. It is for the welfare of the 148 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports capitalists. They produce for profits. Honourable Members of this House know it better than myself that they produce for profit and they will continue to produce as long as they make profit and, if not, they will not. So we should not be deterred by this slogan. … Sir, in this Chapter and particularly in this article are we not going to suggest that ultimately we have to nationalise them, are we not going to suggest that is the aim of the nation, is the target of the nation? […]” (emphasis supplied) 164. Mr S Nagappa supported the existing text of clauses (ii) and (iii) of Article 31 and believed that they were intended for the benefit of the “poor man”. He opined that, while it would have been better if the clause had been drafted in more unequivocal language, they represented a “ray of hope for the future”.