for ascertainment of the duty or the interest so paid: (2) The person who has amount to be paid paid the duty along with prior to issuance of interest or amount of show cause notice. interest under clause (b) of sub-section (1) shall inform the proper officer of such payment in writing, who, on receipt of such information shall not serve any notice under clause (a) of that sub-section in respect of the duty or interest so paid or any penalty leviable under the provisions of this Act or the rules made thereunder in respect of such duty or interest. Provided that the proper officer (3) Where the proper These provisions may determine the amount officer is of the opinion are analogous. of short-payment of duty or that the amount paid under interest, if any, which in his clause (b) of sub-section opinion has not been paid by (1) falls short of the amount such person and, then, the actually payable, then, he proper officer shall proceed shall proceed to issue the to recover such amount in the notice as provided for in 312 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports manner specified in this clause (a) of that sub- section, and the period of section in respect of such “one year” or “six months” amount which falls short as the case may be, referred of the amount actually to in sub-section (1) shall be payable in the manner counted from the date of receipt specified under that sub- of such information of payment. section and the period of one year shall be computed from the date of receipt of information under sub-section (2). Explanation 2. For the removal (10) Where an This provision is of doubts, it is hereby declared determining the duty is for the recovery of that the interest under Section passed by the proper interest. 28AB shall be payable on the officer under this section, amount paid by the person the person liable to pay under this sub-section and the said duty shall pay also on the amount of short- the amount so determined payment of duty, if any, as may along with the interest due be determined by the proper on such amount whether or officer, but for this sub-section. not the amount of interest is specified separately. (2C) The provisions of sub- Section (2B) shall not apply to any case where the duty or the interest had become payable or ought to have been paid before the date on which the Finance Bill 2001 receives the assent of the President. (3) For the purposes of sub- Explanation 1 - For the This provision is section (1), the expression purposes of this section, identical to the old “relevant date” means,- “relevant date” means,- provision. (a) in a case where duty is (a) in a case where duty not levied, or interest is not is not levied, or interest is charged, the date on which the not charged, the date on proper officer makes an which the proper officer for the clearance of the goods; makes an for the clearance of goods; (b) in a case where duty (b) in a case where duty is provisionally assessed is provisionally assessed under section 18, the date of under section 18, the adjustment of duty after the date of adjustment of duty final assessment thereof; after the final assessment thereof; [2024] 12 S.C.R.