42. SEBI has submitted that after receiving the above letter, it sought information from the DRI on the issue and received the requisite inputs. Further, while SEBI examined the preliminary alerts by the DRI, the Additional Director General (Adjudication), DRI concluded their examination and held that the allegations were not established. The of the Additional Director General was assailed by the Commissioner of Customs before the Customs, Excise and Service Tax Tribunal.14 The CESTAT passed an on 8 November 2022 dismissing the appeal and concluding that the allegation of overvaluation was not proved. The of the CESTAT was upheld by this Court on 27 March 2023. Further, SEBI has also submitted that its investigation based on the DRI alerts was concluded and the related findings were also placed before the Expert Committee. 43. None of the above facts have been disputed by the counsel for the petitioners. The petitioner is re-agitating an issue that has already been settled by concurrent findings of the DRI’s Additional Director General, the CESTAT and this Court. Therefore, the petitioner’s assertion that SEBI was lackadaisical in its investigation is not borne out from the reference to the letter sent by the DRI in 2014. 44. Additionally, it must be noted that in the present case, this Court has already exercised its extraordinary powers by setting up an Expert Committee to assess the situation in the market, suggest regulatory measures, and investigate whether there has been a regulatory failure. To expect the Court to monitor the investigation indefinitely, even after the committee has submitted its report and SEBI has completed its investigation in twenty-two out of twenty-four enquiries is not warranted. 14 “CESTAT” [2024] 1 S.C.R. 199 VISHAL TIWARI v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS E. Allegations of conflict of interest against members of the Expert Committee 45. The petitioners have raised allegations against some of the members of the Expert Committee alleging that there was a conflict of interest which was not revealed to the Court. 46. On 2 March 2023, this Court constituted the Expert Committee comprising of domain experts and headed by a former judge of this Court. The allegations against certain members of the committee were raised by the petitioner for the first time only on 18 September 2023 almost six months after the constitution of the committee and several months after the Committee had submitted its report in May 2023. All the purported facts and documents relied on by the petitioner in this regard were available in the public domain well before the allegations were raised by the petitioner for the first time in September 2023. The belated allegations by the petitioner prima facie indicate that they have not been made in good faith. 47. In any event, the allegation against Mr Somasekhar Sundaresan is that he had represented the Adani group before various fora including the SEBI Board, as a lawyer. To buttress the submission, the petitioner has merely averred to one of the SEBI Board dated 25 May 2007 which indicates that Mr Sundaresan has appeared for Adani Exports Ltd on an unconnected issue.