No learned Judge would consciously author a which is self-inconsistent or incorporates passages repugnant to each other. Vide para 22, Their Lordships have clearly held that there is no entry in List II which enables the State to impose a tax on royalty and, therefore, the State was incompetent to impose such a tax (cess). The cess which has an incidence of an additional charge on royalty and not a tax on land, cannot apparently be justified as falling under Entry 49 in List II.” 121. The decision in Kesoram (supra) analyzed the nature of royalty to hold that royalty is not a tax, but a payment made to the owner of [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1651 Mineral Area Development Authority & Anr. v. M/s Steel Authority of India & Anr. Etc. land who may be a person and may not necessarily be the state.175 It held that India Cement (supra) was caused by “an apparent typographical error or inadvertent error” and should not be understood as a correct declaration of law. Kesoram (supra) also expressed its disagreement with Mahalaxmi Fabric Mills (supra) to the extent it had held that there was no “typographical error” in India Cement (supra). Importantly, Kesoram (supra) concurred with India Cement (supra) on the aspect that cess on royalty is beyond the legislative competence of the state legislatures.176 122. The divergence on the point of law between India Cement (supra) and Kesoram (supra) is apparent and pertains to whether or not royalty is a tax. For the reasons to follow, we are of the opinion that royalty does not meet the characteristic requirements of a tax. c. Royalty is not a tax 123. On first principles, royalty is a consideration paid by a mining lessee to the lessor for enjoyment of mineral rights and to compensate for the loss of value of minerals suffered by the owner of the minerals. The marginal note to Section 9 states that royalties are “in respect of mining leases.” The liability to pay royalty arises out of the contractual conditions of the mining lease.177 A failure of the lessee to pay royalty is considered to be a breach of the terms of the contract, allowing the lessor to determine the lease and initiate proceedings for recovery against the lessee. 124. Section 9 of the MMDR Act statutorily regulates the right of a lessor to receive consideration in the form of royalty from the lessee for removing or carrying away minerals from the leased area. Prior to the enactment of the MMDR Act, such a condition was treated as part of a mining lease. The object of empowering the Central Government to specify rates of royalty for major minerals was to ensure a certain level of uniformity in mineral prices in view of the domestic and international market. 125. The fact that the rates of royalty are prescribed under Section 9 of the MMDR Act does not make it a “compulsory exaction by public 175 Kesoram (supra) [71] 176 Kesoram (supra) [115] 177 See Rules 27 and 45, Mineral Concession Rules 1960 1652 [2024] 7 S.C.R.