He submitted that the appellant has filed only 14 applications in ED case and 13 applications in CBI case and that all these applications have been allowed by the learned trial judge. He lastly submitted that even as per the prosecution, if the entire “un-relied upon documents” are to be supplied in digital form, it will take a long time. To support his submission, Dr. Singhvi places reliance on the compliance report [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1071 Manish Sisodia v. Directorate of Enforcement dated 7th May 2024 filed by the Assistant Director of ED which would fortify this position. CONSIDERATION OF PRELIMINARY OBJECTION: 26. We will first deal with the preliminary objection of the learned ASG with regard to the filing of the second set of appeals before this Court challenging the of the High Court dated 21st May 2024 i.e., on the point of maintainability. 27. Undisputedly, the appellant had earlier challenged the same dated 21st May 2024 vide SLP (Criminal) Nos. 7795 and 7799 of 2024. On doing so, a Division Bench of this Court passed the dated 4th June 2024. It will be apposite to refer to the observations made by this Court in the said , which read thus: “Though, elaborate arguments have been made, we do not propose to go into the said arguments or dwell upon it and then record our reasons for the simple reason that Co-ordinate Bench while dismissing the appeals vide dated 30.10.2023, as noticed hereinabove has granted liberty to the appellant, i.e., the petitioner herein to move a fresh application for bail by placing reliance on the assurance given on behalf of the prosecution that they would conclude the trial by taking appropriate steps within next 6-8 months and as such the liberty was extended to the petitioner herein to move a fresh application in case of change in circumstances, or in case the trial is protracted and proceeds at a snail’s pace in next three months. It was also observed that if such an application is filed in the aforesaid circumstances, the same would be considered by the trial court on merits without being influenced by the dismissal of the earlier bail application including the of this Court. Shri Tushar Mehta, learned Solicitor General on instructions would submit that the investigation would be concluded and final complaint/charge sheet would be filed expeditiously and at any rate on or before 03.07.2024 and immediately thereafter, the trial court will be free to proceed with trial. In the light of the said submissions made and having regard to the fact that the period of “6-8 months” fixed by 1072 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports this Court by dated 30.10.2023 having not come to an end, it would suffice to dispose of these petitions with liberty to the petitioner to revive his prayer afresh after filing of the final complaint/Charge-sheet as assured by learned Solicitor General. Needless to state that in the event of such an application being filed, the same would be considered on its own merits as already observed by this Court vide paragraph 29 (supra).