The court has a continuing responsibility to ensure that the constitutional purpose of the deprivation is not defeated by the prison administration…. 78(3). Lawyers nominated by the District Magistrate, Sessions Judge, High Court and the Supreme Court will be given all facilities for interviews, visits and confidential communication with prisoners subject to discipline and security considerations. This has roots in the visitatorial and supervisory judicial role. The lawyers so designated shall be bound to make periodical visits and record and report to the concerned court results which have relevance to legal grievances.” (Emphasis supplied) The Legal Services Authorities Act, 1987 10. To give effect to the constitutional goal under Article 39-A, the Legal Services Authorities Act, 1987 was enacted. As the preamble to the Act sets out, the Act was to constitute legal services authorities to provide free and competent legal services to the weaker sections of society, to ensure that opportunities for securing justice are not denied [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1779 Suhas Chakma v. Union of India & Ors. to any citizen by reason of any economic or other disabilities. Under Section 3 of the Act, the National Legal Services Authority (NALSA) is constituted. Under Section 4, the functions of the NALSA are set out and the relevant ones for the purpose of the present issue are (a) (b) (c) and (i). They are extracted herein below. “4. Functions of the Central Authority.— The Central Authority shall perform all or any of the following functions, namely: (a) lay down policies and principles for making legal services available under the provisions of this Act; (b) frame the most effective and economical schemes for the purpose of making legal services available under the provisions of this Act; (c) utilise the funds at its disposal and make appropriate allocations of funds to the State Authorities and District Authorities; (i) monitor and evaluate implementation of the legal aid programmes at periodic intervals and provide for independent evaluation of programmes and schemes implemented in whole or in part by funds provided under this Act;” Section 6 and 9 deal with the constitution of State Legal Services Authority and the District Legal Services Authority respectively. Section 12 of the Act is a significant provision. Section 12, inter alia, sets out that every person in custody who has to file or defend a case shall be entitled to legal services under the Act. Section 13 mandates that persons who satisfy all or any of the criteria specified in Section 12 shall be entitled to receive legal services provided that the concerned authority is satisfied that such persons have a prima facie case to prosecute or to defend. Section 14 speaks of grants by Central Government and Section 15 speaks of the National Legal Aid Fund and the application thereof. In exercise of its power NALSA has been periodically laying down the policies and principles for making legal services available under the provisions of the Act and framing schemes and providing for utilization of funds. 1780 [2024] 10 S.C.R.