Learned counsel contended that the High Court has failed to appreciate that when it comes to uniformed service, suppression or false information is taken seriously as such a service requires a higher level of integrity. The respondent cannot claim a right of service or appointment or continuity of service when it has been established that he had deliberately withheld material information relating to his antecedents. Any relaxation given to the respondent would run against the settled procedure established under the CRPF Act, 1949 and CRPF Rules, 1955 as also OM dated 19th May, 1993 issued by the Department of Personnel and Training, Government of India read with Rule 11 of the Central Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 196510 which mandates that when a government servant furnishes false information to secure appointment, he should not be retained in service and should be dismissed after conducting an inquiry. ARGUMENTS ADVANCED BY LEARNED COUNSEL FOR THE RESPONDENT 13. On his part, Mr. Brijesh Kumar Gupta, learned counsel for the respondent has supported the impugned dated 07th February, 2019 and the findings returned by the learned Single Judge in the dated 27th March, 2018 and urged that while setting aside the of dismissal from service, an option was given to the appellants to reconsider the case of the respondent and award him lesser punishment as against the major punishment of removal from service imposed on him, which option is still available. Learned counsel stated that the crime in question that resulted in registration of a FIR against the respondent and his family members was related to a land dispute amongst the villagers and the Criminal Court had subsequently acquitted the respondent vide 22nd October, 2014; that it was only after the inquiry was initiated against the respondent 10 CCS(CCA) Rules 920 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports on the basis of the Memorandum of Charges dated 09th July, 2013, that he made inquiries at his level and for the first time gathered knowledge about the case relating to a quarrel between two parties in the village over a plot of land under the possession of his family members where his name was also falsely included. Learned counsel asserted that no warrant or summon had been issued against the respondent which fact was ignored by the appellants at the time of terminating his service. In fact, respondent had been falsely implicated in the criminal cases and deserves leniency. DISCUSSION 14. We have heard the arguments advanced by learned counsel for the parties, gone through the records and perused the impugned . The question that arises for consideration in the instant case is whether the appellants were justified in terminating the services of the respondent on the post of Constable (GD) in the CRPF after conducting a departmental inquiry against him on receiving information that he had deliberately failed to reveal in his Verification Roll that two criminal cases were pending against him. 15. It is an admitted position that the respondent was required to furnish all the relevant factual information as required in the Verification Roll issued by the CRPF.