Having recorded the principle that operation and impact of 7 Rule 11, being a drastic remedy, Courts must adhere to the discipline of confining their scrutiny to the plaint averments, the High Court however proceeded to consider other aspects of the matter. The fact that the High Court relied on and has in fact drawn inferences that were possible only after a trial is evident from the following findings: (i) By virtue of the definition of the expression “a person is said to have notice” under Section 3 of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882, coupled with the explanation I, the plaintiff has the burden to prove and establish that he had no knowledge of the sale deed. (ii) In the normal course, nobody will wait for 13 years to institute a suit for cancellation of the sale deed. It is normal to expect any plaintiff to have made some enquiry about the execution of the sale deed. (iii) The First Appellate Court has wrongly shifted the burden on to the defendant, when it is for the plaintiffs to show that they were not aware of the execution of the sale deed in the year 2004. (iv) The “plaintiff willfully abstained from inquiry which he ought to have made” when the Deputy Collector in RTS issued notice to him. (v) Mere usage of the expression ‘fraud’ in the pleading is not sufficient. The plaintiff must have given details with material particulars of the fraud alleged. When a plaintiff bases his case on fraud committed by the defendant, there is an obligation to 2130 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports plead the details of the said fraud. The essential particulars of such fraud are missing in the plaint. (vi) Further, the particulars of the alleged fraud must be prima facie enough to rebut the presumption of the validity of a sale deed under Sections 34 and 35 of the Registration Act. No such details are available in the plaint. (vii) Once a document is registered under the Registration Act, the date of registration becomes the date of deemed knowledge. (viii) Though Article 59 of the Limitation Act enables institution of a suit to cancel or set aside an instrument within a period of 3 years, from the date of knowledge, the bar of limitation cannot be saved by simply pleading fraud. 8. For the reasons stated above, the High Court proceeded to allow the second appeal and set aside the of the First Appellate Court and restored the of the Trial Court, rejecting the plaint and dismissing the suit. This is how the appellants are before us. 9. Having considered the of the High Court in detail, we are of the opinion that the findings of the High Court are primarily factual. The High Court seems to have got carried away by the fact that the suit was filed 13 years after the execution of the sale deed. The question is whether the plaintiffs had the knowledge of the execution of the sale deed.