31. It is hard to conceive how the Trial Court concluded that despite being the first cousin of D-1 and himself a person injured in the incident, PW-1 was not an interested witness. Further, we find a categorical statement that, “the wine shop is in the main road’ and “the wine shop would be crowded always”. In such a situation, the joining of independent witnesses ought not to have been a difficult task but, yet, it remained unachieved. 32. Further, we note that he admits variation in his statement (Exh.P-1) in different ink and hand. He further states that there wasn’t much [2024] 3 S.C.R. 761 Periyasamy v. The State Represented by the Inspector of Police light at the spot of the incident, but then denies it to be “too dark” when the occurrence has happened. 33. This Court has to strike a balance between the testimony of the injured witness and that of an interested witness. It is also not a case that PW-1 was a natural witness, as he stated that he had not been to the wine shop and was only near the STD booth where the ensuing quarrel was separated. In striking the above-stated balance, other factors must also be considered, which will be discussed subsequently. 34. PW-2 was a neighbour of D-1. Upon being informed of the quarrel between A-1 and D-1, he and PW-1 allegedly went there and separated the parties. He claims to be an eyewitness to the incident. After having undergone surgery, he regained consciousness the next day at 6.30 a.m. 35. It was that evening when the police recorded his statement. At the time of recording these statements in Court, i.e., 14th November 2005, a separate case preferred by the accused persons was under trial and PW-2 was made an accused thereunder. Now, having been made an accused in a case, as also having been injured with two stabs in the stomach and additionally being the neighbour of D-1, it is difficult to reconcile that PW-2 would be a witness of unquestionable integrity upon whose statement convictions can be based. Once again, we find that in regard to A2 the only thing stated is that upon the instigation of A-2, A-1 stabbed them. There is no other statement as to what may have been said by A-2 to enrage him enough that even after the quarrelling parties were separated and they had dispersed in their respective directions, A-1 went ahead angrily and repeatedly stabbed them. 36. He has also deposed that there were about 50 persons at the scene of the crime, then, how has the non-examination of independent witness been countenanced by the prosecution and “approved” by the Courts below, is something that escapes us, or rather confounds us. 37. Another essential aspect to be examined is that the statement of PW-1 was recorded at 4.30 a.m. on 4th March 2002 wherein as summarised above, he has clearly mentioned the role of PW-2, however, the latter’s examination by the police was only at 5.00 p.m., that too when per his own statement he had regained consciousness from his surgery at 6.30 a.m. itself.