The railway administration makes these charges because there is delay in unloading the wagon or removing the goods from the platform. These are clearly charges in respect of the goods carried by railway as much as freight and other charges. If, therefore, there is any overcharge made by the railway administration in respect of demurrage and wharfage charges, a claim for its refund would clearly come within the scope and ambit of Section 77. It would be a claim for refund of an overcharge in respect of goods carried by railway within the meaning of that section.” (Emphasis supplied) 42. The Orissa High Court in Union of India & Ors. v. Steel Authority of India Ltd. reported in (1996) SCC OnLine Ori 60, while examining Section 78B of the Act, 1890, made the following pertinent observations which are reproduced as under: - “12. [...] What this section provides for is, apart from claim for compensation for the loss, a claim for refund of overcharge to a person in respect of animals or goods carried by the Railways. The condition precedent for making such a refund is that the person should have preferred a claim in writing for such overcharge or compensation within six months of the date of delivery of the animals or goods for being carried by the Railway.” (Emphasis supplied) 43. Thus, it can be seen from above that when it comes to a Notice for Claim for Refund of Overcharge under Section 106(3) of the Act, 1989 the following conditions must be fulfilled: - a. Claim must be for refund of an ‘Overcharge’, b. Overcharge must have been paid to the Railway Administration in respect of the goods carried by the railway [2024] 3 S.C.R. 1091 Union of India v. M/s Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. c. Notice must be issued within 6-months from the date of payment or delivery of goods for which overcharge was paid, and d. Notice must be served to the concerned railway administration to whom the overcharge was paid. 44. Thus, the rigours of Section 106 sub-section (3) i.e., the 6-month time- period for making a notice of claim, is only attracted, when the refund is for an overcharge. Whenever, an application is made under Section 16 of the RCT Act for refund, what needs to be seen is whether the same is for a refund of an overcharge or not? If the claim is for an overcharge, Section 106 sub-section (3) would be applicable. a. What is meant by an “Overcharge”? 45. At this stage, it would be apposite to understand what is meant by the term “overcharge” used in Section 106 of the Act, 1989. The term “overcharge” has neither been defined in the Act, 1989 nor the erstwhile Act, 1890. The term “overcharge” is derived from the word ‘charge’ prefixed by the word ‘over’ and means “something more than the correct amount or more than a certain limit”. The Black’s Law Dictionary has defined “overcharge” as follows [See: Henry Campbell Black on ‘Black’s Law Dictionary’, 4th Edn., 1968 at Pg.