While doing so, the State Government is required to ensure adequate dispersal for the tiger species, which aims at promoting co-existence between wildlife and human activity with due recognition of the livelihood, developmental, social and cultural rights of the local people, wherein the limits of such areas are determined based on the scientific and objective criteria in consultation with the concerned Gram Sabha and an Expert Committee constituted for the purpose are to be provided. 89. It is thus clear that, even in buffer or peripheral areas, though a lesser degree of habitat protection than the core area is to be provided, however, the provisions are required to be made to ensure the integrity of the critical tiger habitat with adequate dispersal for tiger species. An effort has to be made to promote co-existence between wildlife and human activity with due recognition of the livelihood, developmental, social and cultural rights. 90. It is further to be noted that the National Forest Policy, 1988 also emphasizes the necessity to provide for “corridors” linking the protected areas to maintain genetic continuity between artificially separated sub-sections of migrant wildlife. Even the National Wildlife Action Plan 2017-31 emphasizes on the same. As held by this Court in the case of Centre for Environmental Law, World Wide Fund- India (supra), this Policy has a statutory flavor. 91. As held by this Court in the case of T.N. Godavarman Thirumulpad v. Union of India and others (supra), the approach has to be ecocentric and not anthropocentric. The approach has to be nature- centred where humans are a part of nature and non-humans have intrinsic value. 92. We will now have to examine as to how the concept of ‘Tiger Safaris’ came to be introduced. [2024] 3 S.C.R. 251 In Re: T.N. Godavarman Thirumulpad v. Union of India & Ors. In Re: Gaurav Kumar Bansal 93. We have already reproduced the relevant part of the Guidelines for Preparation of Tiger Conservation Plan, 2007. The said Guidelines show how important is the buffer zone vis-à-vis the tiger land tenure dynamics. Based on the available research data, it has been found that the minimum population of tigresses in breeding age, which is needed to maintain a viable population of 80-100 tigers (in and around core areas) requires an inviolate space of 800 -1000 sq. km. It also states that the tiger being an “umbrella species”, such an area would also ensure viable populations of other wild animals (co-predators, prey) and forest, thereby ensuring the ecological viability of the entire area/habitat. It can also be seen that the buffer areas with forest connectivity are imperative for tiger dynamics since such areas foster sub-adults, young adults, transients, and old members of the population. The young adults periodically replace the resident aging males and females from the source population area. It also states that the buffer area absorbs the “shock” of poaching pressure on populations of tigers and other wild animals. 94. It is for the first time, in “the 2012 Guidelines” issued by the NTCA on 15th October 2012, that the concept of establishment of the ‘Tiger Safari’ could be found, which has already been reproduced herein above.