Apart from that, it is also in proximity to the DSC Shade, Okhla Barrage Highway and the MAT Public School of Business Management. 38. Additionally, the acquired land is enveloped by developed colonies and markets on all three sides. Towards the western periphery, it is bed by N.T. Road which offers excellent connectivity to the Kalindikunj area near Delhi via the Yamuna Barrage. Beyond the southern side, the land is flanked by a six-lane road leading towards Delhi through Noida, alongside residential enclaves designated for Army Officers, along with the aforementioned golf course. Eastward, there are developed sectors 43 and 45, as well as the lands belonging to village Sadarpur. Lastly, the acquired land benefits from convenient access to key landmarks in Delhi including the Supreme Court, Connaught Place and the ITO, highlighting its strategic location vis- à-vis its potentiality and future multiplicity of its market value at the time of issuance of the Section 4 notification. 39. More importantly, the land is not uneven, prone to flooding or subject to construction restrictions. Taken together, all these facts and evidence lead to the reasonable inference that the subject land had significant potential for future commercial development at the time of issuance of the notification under Section 4, akin to the developments witnessed in the lease deeds for Sector 18, NOIDA. 40. At this juncture, we may clarify that the mere absence of multiple sale exemplars also does not by itself support a conclusion that the market condition was unfavourable or that the lands had stagnant demand and low value, as sellers often hold on to lands whose prices are in the process of increasing or likely to increase in the near future, owing to urbanisation or other upcoming development projects and changes. 41. Thus, even devoid of numerous sale exemplars showing frequent transactions and considering the factors enumerated in the preceding paragraph, we are inclined to estimate that the value of the subject land was appreciating at around 15% annually. This rough estimate 462 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of ours is supported by the decision of this Court in ONGC Ltd. v. Rameshbhai Jivanbhai Patel,10 which recognised that a 15% annual growth in prices can be assumed for lands situated in urban areas. 42. Regarding the quantum of compensation and/or valuation of the acquired land, an escalation is merited even if we were to rely on the lower end of the rates fixed by NOIDA itself in 1989 in Chhalera Banger, for lands lying away from the road, being INR 350 per sq. yd. Given that these rates were released by NOIDA towards the latter half of 1989, and considering how the acquisition process began on 05.01.1991, it would be appropriate to apply a 15% escalation for one year to this price – bringing our total guesstimate to Rs. 403 per sq. yd. 43. In to further substantiate this estimation, we place our reliance on the decision rendered in Krishan Kumar v. Union of India,11 where this Court acknowledged that while sale exemplars may not directly establish the amount of compensation to be granted, compensation could be determined applying the principle of guesstimation, based on the circle rate after granting a marginal increase over the same.