Going beyond the needs of the class, the specific requirement of individuals who belong to the class must also be accommodated. The principle of reasonable accommodation must also [2024] 10 S.C.R. 695 Omkar Ramchandra Gond v. The Union of India & Ors. account for the fact that disability based discrimination is intersectional in nature….” 43. It should be borne in mind that the RPwD Act which was enacted to give effect to the United Nations Convention on Rights of Persons with Disabilities - was with the objective of granting persons with disabilities full and effective participation and inclusion in society, grant them equal opportunity and to show respect for their inherent dignity, individual autonomy including the freedom to make their own choices. 44. This Court in Jeeja Ghosh & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. (2016) 7 SCC 761 observed as under : “40. In international human rights law, equality is founded upon two complementary principles: non- discrimination and reasonable differentiation. The principle of non-discrimination seeks to ensure that all persons can equally enjoy and exercise all their rights and freedoms. Discrimination occurs due to arbitrary denial of opportunities for equal participation. For example, when public facilities and services are set on standards out of the reach of persons with disabilities, it leads to exclusion and denial of rights. Equality not only implies preventing discrimination (example, the protection of individuals against unfavourable treatment by introducing anti-discrimination laws), but goes beyond in remedying discrimination against groups suffering systematic discrimination in society. In concrete terms, it means embracing the notion of positive rights, affirmative action and reasonable accommodation…” (Emphasis supplied) 45. In view of this mandate, while interpreting the RPwD Act and the agnate regulations, one must keep in mind the background and purpose for which the law was enacted. (See U.P. Bhoodan Yagna Samiti, U.P. v. Braj Kishore and others (1988) 4 SCC 274). In the said , quoting from Lord Denning in “The Discipline of Law”, this Court held as under: “15. When we are dealing with the phrase “landless persons” these words are from English language and 696 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports therefore I am reminded of what Lord Denning said about it. Lord Denning in “The Discipline of Law” at p. 12 observed as under: [ Quoting from his decision in Seaford Court Estates Ltd. v. Asher (1949) 2 KB 481] “Whenever a statute comes up for consideration it must be remembered that it is not within human powers to foresee the manifold sets of facts which may arise, and, even if it were, it is not possible to provide for them in terms free from all ambiguity. The English language is not an instrument of mathematical precision. Our literature would be much the poorer if it were. This is where the draftsmen of Acts of Parliament have often been unfairly criticised. A Judge, believing himself to be fettered by the supposed rule that he must look to the language and nothing else, laments that the draftsmen have not provided for this, or that, or have been guilty of some or other ambiguity.