However, it appears that it is not the practice in Orissa High Court. In the present case, we have come across s passed by at least three different Judges in the applications of various accused arising out of same FIR. 4. Such a practice leads to anomalous situation. Certain accused are granted bail whereas certain accused for the very same crime having similar role are refused bail. 620 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 5. We, therefore, quash and set aside the impugned dated 31.01.2023 and remand the matter back to the High Court. The High Court is requested to consider the effect of the s passed by the other coordinate Benches and pass s afresh. The same shall be done within a period of one month from today. 6. The Registrar (Judicial) of the Registry of this Court is directed to forward a copy of this to the Registrar General of the Orissa High Court, who is requested to take note of the aforesaid and consider passing appropriate so that contrary s in the same crime are avoided.” 18. A perusal of the paper book in second bail application shows that there is a report annexed by the Registry in the matter. It mentioned about the earlier two bail applications filed in the FIR in-question. The first bail application filed by the appellant was disposed of on 06.03.2023. Bail application filed by the co-accused Gangesh Kumar Thakur was disposed of on 17.01.2023. The next one was the second bail application filed by the appellant. Though Standing No.2 of 2023 directed the Registry to annex all the s passed in the earlier bail applications by different accused in the same FIR, however, the passed by the High Court in the case of the appellant, rejecting his earlier bail application, does not form part of the bail application before the High Court. Only the dated 17.01.2023 passed in the bail application, filed by the co-accused Gangesh Kumar Thakur was annexed. Further, in the list of dates and events, the appellant did not mention regarding disposal of his earlier bail application by the High Court and also filing of the SLP in this Court. Though, just below the name of the parties, the appellant had mentioned the number of earlier bail application filed by him. Even in the body of the bail application, the appellant has conspicuously remained silent about the dismissal of his earlier bail application by the High Court and filing of the SLP before this Court. During the pendency of the matter before this court a fresh bail application was filed not only before the Trial Court but even before the High Court. The High Court even granted bail to the appellant. In the bail application filed before the High Court, it was not mentioned that the same was second bail application filed by the appellant. This Court cannot comment on the contents of the bail application filed before the Sessions Judge as the copy thereof is not available on record here.