1969 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. be minority institutions despite not being established as minority institutions. This could be easily achieved by merely amending the rules or Articles of Association of the society to create a semblance of minority control. If the prerequisite of initial establishment by a minority community is deemed dispensable for invoking protection under Article 30, it would result in a creation of minority institutions, in name only. On the said count as well, it is necessary to treat the criterion of establishment by the minority community, as essential to claim rights/protection under Article 30. g. meanIng of “estaBlIshment” and the real posItIVe IndIcIa BehInd G.1. The existing jurisprudence of this Court 139. The two sides have diverged significantly on the aspect of the meaning of the word “establish” occurring in Article 30. The parties challenging the of the High Court and the correctness of the in Azeez Basha [supra] have argued that the term “establish” cannot have a strict meaning to signify ‘to bring into existence’. They argue that the word has various other meanings such as ‘to ratify’, ‘to found’, ‘to confirm’, or ‘to settle’, as defined in numerous dictionaries or utilized in foreign legal contexts. They further argue that the narrow interpretation of ‘establish’ solely as ‘to bring into existence’ lacks justification as it neglects to analyze Article 30(1) within its context, i.e., the safeguarding of minority rights and nullifies the effect of words ‘of their choice’ in Article 30(1). It is further argued that the constrained interpretation of ‘establish’ is against the s in Very Rev. Mother Provincial [supra], which was endorsed by TMA Pai [supra] and argued for a broader interpretation to the term ‘establish’, implicitly overturning the narrow perspective of Azeez Basha [supra]. It was strenuously argued that the establishment of an educational institution can be ascertained from the ‘intention’ of the minority community “to found an institution” of their choice and “for the benefit of a minority community by a member of that community.” 140. The parties defending the asserted that the meaning of the word “establish” under Article 30 has indeed been understood by this Court consistently to mean to bring into existence. They submit that in Azeez Basha [supra] correctly understands the word “establish” in the common sense it connotes. They argue that any 1970 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports minority community seeking to claim rights under Article 30, needs to necessarily prove that an institution in question was actually, tangibly and manifestly brought into being by the minority. It was asserted that the right under Article 30 and the factum of “establishment” is not a function of the “intent” of the minority at the said time or the “choice” of the minority at the said time and is a pure question of fact. It was argued that question of “establishment” cannot be satisfied by some limited effort or actions on part of the minority rather it has to be established that the predominant character of the institution and the predominant efforts in establishing the institution was of the minority only.