7. Pursuant to the aforesaid, the Written Test (Objective Type – MCQs) was conducted by the High Court and out of 205 candidates, a total of 175 judicial officers cleared the written test i.e., all those who were able to secure a minimum of 40% marks. Thereafter, the High Court called for the month-wise list of the s disposed of and the annual confidential reports (ACRs) of all 175 candidates who qualified. 8. After the evaluation of the ACRs, s and disposal rates, a total of 149 judicial officers were found to be eligible for promotion as they had secured a minimum 40% marks in each of the abovementioned component and a minimum aggregate of 50% marks in all the four components of the suitability test. 9. The High Court thereafter proceeded to prepare the final Select List dated 10.03.2023 wherein the seniormost 68 candidates amongst the aforementioned 149 eligible candidates were given promotion to the post of District Judge. 10. In such circumstances referred to above, the petitioners are here before this Court with the present petition under Article 32 of the Constitution. i. Method of Promotion followed by the High Court of Gujarat. 11. For the better adjudication of the issues involved in the case at hand, it would be necessary to delineate the step-wise process of promotion undertaken by the High Court of Gujarat for the purpose of preparing the final Select List. 12. The process, as explained by the High Court in its counter affidavit and additional affidavit is as under: - 1. Total number of Civil Judges (Senior Division) in 444 Gujarat. 2. Civil Judges (Senior Division) who fulfilled the eligibility 417 criteria of a minimum of two-years of qualifying service. 1092 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 3. Senior-most of the Civil Judges (Senior Division) falling 205 under the zone of consideration as per 1:3 ratio. 4. Civil Judges (Senior Division) who appeared for the 198 Suitability Test (MCQ’s with no negative marking). (Seven candidates chose not to appear for the suitability test) 5. Civil Judges (Senior Division) who secured 40% marks 175 in the Suitability Test (MCQs with no negative marking). 6. Total number of Civil Judges (Senior Division) who 149 secured total of 50% marks and a minimum 40% marks in all four components being the Written Test, evaluation of ACRs, assessment of average disposal and evaluation of s. 7. Select List as per the notified vacancy prepared on 68 the basis of seniority. B. REFERENCE 13. The present writ petition was earlier heard by a two-Judge Bench of this Court wherein it was prima facie observed that in All India Judges’ Association (3) v. Union of India & Ors. reported in (2002) 4 SCC 247 while emphasizing on the need for merit-based criteria for promotion in the cadre of Higher Judicial Service, this Court had held that the promotion to the post of District Judge shall be on the basis of ‘Merit-cum-Seniority’. 14. This Court further observed that the principle of ‘Merit-cum-Seniority’ lays greater emphasis on merit, and seniority plays a less significant role.