33. In a functional democracy governed by the rule of law, perception matters. Like Caesar’s wife, an investigating agency must be above board. Not so long ago, this Court had castigated the CBI comparing it to a caged parrot. It is imperative that CBI dispel the notion of it being a caged parrot. Rather, the perception should be that of an uncaged parrot. Impugned 34. Let me now deal with the impugned and of the High Court whereby the bail application of the appellant was disposed of. Appellant had filed Bail Application No. 2285 of 2024 before the High Court under Section 439 Cr.P.C. in the CBI case where he was taken into custody on 26.06.2024. On 05.07.2024, a learned Judge of the High Court issued notice, fixing 17.07.2024 for arguments. On 17.07.2024, arguments were heard on interim bail; thereafter, the case was directed to be listed on 29.07.2024 at 03:00 PM. On 29.07.2024, arguments were heard and the was reserved. Finally, the was pronounced on 05.08.2024, the relevant portion of which reads as under: [2024] 9 S.C.R. 719 Arvind Kejriwal v. Central Bureau of Investigation 5. Though there is no quarrel about the proposition that the District Courts and this Court have concurrent jurisdiction, as has been held in the s relied on behalf of the appellant, but at the same time it has been held time and again by the Apex Court that the Party must first approach the Court of first instance. 6. In the present case, it is more in the benefit of the appellant, considering the complexity and the web of the facts and the material on record, to comprehensively determine the role of the appellant in this alleged conspiracy to determine if he is entitled to bail. It may also be noted that when the Bail Application was filed before this Court, the chargesheet had not been filed. However, in the changed circumstances, when the chargesheet has already got filed before the learned Special Judge, it would be in the benefit of the appellant, to first approach the Court of Sessions Judge. 7. In these circumstances, this Bail Application is hereby disposed of with the liberty to the appellant to approach the learned Special Judge for regular bail. 34.1 After observing that it would be more to the benefit of the appellant if the appellant approaches the learned Special Judge first for bail more so when the chargesheet has been filed, the High Court relegated the appellant to the forum of the learned Special Judge though both the Court of the Special Judge and the High Court have concurrent jurisdiction in the matter. 35. If indeed the High Court thought of remanding the appellant to the forum of the Court of Special Judge, it could have done so at the threshold itself. After issuing notice, after hearing the parties at length and after reserving the for about a week, the above was passed by the High Court. Though couched in a language which appears to be in favour of the appellant, in practical terms it has only resulted in prolonging the incarceration of the appellant for a far more longer period impacting his personal liberty.