(2) Where the allegations made in the complaint are patently absurd and inherently improbable so that no prudent person can ever reach a conclusion that there is sufficient ground for proceeding against the accused. (3) Where the discretion exercised by the Magistrate in issuing process is capricious and arbitrary having been based either on no evidence or on materials which are wholly irrelevant or inadmissible; and (4) Where the complaint suffers from fundamental legal defects, such as want of sanction or absence of a complaint by legally competent authority and the like.” 8. Each Penal Section of the Indian Penal Code or of the other laws can be subjected to an analysis by posing and answering the following questions: - [2024] 8 S.C.R. 685 Delhi Race Club (1940) Ltd. & Ors. v. State of Uttar Pradesh & Anr. I. What is the overt act stipulated in the Section, which overt act has resulted in an injury? II. What is the state of mind stipulated in respect of the accused and which state of mind must precede or accompany the act of the accused? ANALYSIS 9. Having heard the learned counsel appearing for the parties and having gone through the materials on record, the only question that falls for our consideration is whether the High Court committed any error in passing the impugned . 10. The case at hand is one of an unpaid seller. It is the case of the complainant that he used to regularly supply consignments of grains & oats meant for horses at the Delhi Race Club. The complainant used to raise invoices in favour of the Club and the Club used to pay the requisite amount. However, according to the complainant after 2017, the Club stopped making the payment. It is the case of the complainant that an amount of Rs. 9,11,434/- is due and payable by the appellants towards the supply of the consignment of oats. 11. The impugned passed by the High Court is a fine specimen of total non- application of mind. Although the complaint was filed for the offence punishable under Sections 406, 420 and 120B respectively of the IPC yet the Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate thought fit to take cognizance and issue process only for the offence of criminal breach of trust as defined under Section 405 of the IPC and made punishable under Section 406 of the IPC. 12. We are of the view that even if the entire case of the complainant is accepted as true no offence worth the name is disclosed. 13. This Court has time and again reminded that summoning of an accused in a criminal case is a serious matter. Criminal law cannot be set into motion as a matter of course. It is not that the complainant has to bring only two witnesses to support his allegations in the complaint to have the criminal law set into motion. The of the Magistrate summoning the accused must reflect that he has applied his mind to the facts of the case and the law applicable thereto.