13.3. Subsequently, the Division Bench of the High Court interacted with the Minor Children on two occasions i.e., (i) 23.08.2021; and (ii) 17.08.2022. Pertinently, the Division Bench in an dated 23.08.2021 observed that the children were intelligent and reasonably grown up. On the other hand, the Division Bench in the Impugned observed that the Minor Children expressed their clear desire to reside with the Appellant. 13.4. In the Supreme Court, we considered it necessary to interact with the Minor Children ourselves. Accordingly, vide an dated 19.03.2024, we directed the Appellant to produce the Minor Children in Court so as to enable us to interact with them. On 05.04.2024, we interacted with both SSU; and SSH in chambers. We found the Minor Children to be intelligent, confident, cognisant of the pros and cons of their decisions and most importantly content / happy. During our interactions with the Minor Children, despite probing the issue of guardianship on more than one occasion, the Minor Children categorically stated that they were happy and wished to reside with their father only i.e., the Appellant. 14. The natural and consequential deduction from the aforesaid interaction(s) between the Minor Children and various Court over a period spanning over 4 (four) years, is the unwavering and strong desire of the children to continue to reside with the Appellant. The aforesaid desire / preference although in itself cannot be determinative of custody of the children, but it must be given due consideration on account of it being a factor of utmost importance. 15. Having settled the preference of the Minor Children, we turn towards, the next leg of the analysis to be undertaken by this Court in questions involving custody of children i.e., considerations of welfare of the children. 274 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 16. In the instant appeal, certain contentions were raised by Ms. Sehgal in relation to the nature of employment of the Appellant posing a challenge in the upbringing and welfare of the Minor Children. We find ourselves unable to subscribe to the aforesaid view, as we find that the Indian Armed Forces provides a robust support system to the kin of its officer(s) so as to ensure minimal disruption in the lives of the civilian member(s) of an officer’s family. This support system includes residential accommodation, a network of army schools, hospitals and healthcare facilities. Moreover, various extra-curricular activities i.e., sport(s) facilities and recreational clubs; and other social and cultural functions are made available for the benefit of the kin of officers of the Indian Armed Forces – the aforesaid support system undoubtedly, aids in the mental stimulation, growth and overall development of personality of a child. 17. At this juncture it would also be relevant to deal with the main thrust of the argument put forth by Ms. Sehgal in relation to the preference indicated by the Minor Children i.e., it was contended that the present case is a classic case of PAS wherein the Minor Children have been influenced against the Respondent; and accordingly the preference indicated by the Minor Children ought not to be considered representative of the true emotions of the Minor Children.