21. Learned counsel submitted that the charging Rs.10 per square foot irrespective of whether such hoardings are on private or public place is also arbitrary and unsustainable. In support of his contentions, learned counsel relied upon the decisions of this Court in Commissioner of Income Tax, Mumbai v Anjum M H Ghaswala (2002) 1 SCC 633; Punit Rai v Dinesh Chaudhary (2003) 8 SCC 204; Union of India v Naveen Jindal (2004) 2 SCC 510, and; State of Kerala v Chandramohanan (2004) 3 SCC 429. (a) on telephone, telegraph, tram, electric or other posts or poles erected on or along public or private streets or public places, (b) in lands or buildings, and (c) in cinema-halls, theatres or other places of public resort.’ 1396 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports ANALYSIS, REASONING AND CONCLUSION: 22. Having given our anxious thought to the issue at hand, the Court finds that the impugned warrants interference. Though the Division Bench has elaborated on the law relating to imposition of tax/levy, we find that the issue was not examined in the manner required. The core question confronting us, as it was before the Division Bench, is whether the demand is by way of a tax/levy or simply in the nature of royalty for permission for advertising through hoardings within the limits of the Corporation. The Court, at this juncture, would clarify that there can be no issue with the proposition of law as stands settled by the various earlier decisions of this Court with regard to the power and modality of charging of tax/levy, which obviously has to be done in terms of the power conferred under/by authority by law. 23. In the present case, however, it cannot be lost sight of, as also elucidated in Indsil Hydro Power and Manganese Limited (supra), especially in Paragraph 56 thereof, after considering a host of precedents, that the imposition of royalty cannot be equated with imposition of tax/levy. Even otherwise, the law is no longer res integra that conduct of the parties and acquiescence would preclude a party from turning around and assailing a decision acquiesced to, except where there is an inherent lack of jurisdiction, or the exercise of authority is perverse or malafide, in law or in fact. In the instant factual setting, the advertising companies/respective Respondents No.1 had agreed in the year 2005 to pay a royalty of Re.1 per square foot to the Corporation for putting up hoardings/advertisements. We may note that only 2 advertising companies, in praesenti, moved the High Court by way of letters patent appeals, whereas, we are informed, a majority of the advertising companies complied with making payment(s) @ Rs.10 per square foot subsequent to the decision of the Corporation dated 02.11.2007. It is also worthwhile to note that the initial rate viz. Re.1 per square foot of royalty in the year 2005 was fixed after a Meeting with all the stakeholders on 29.08.2005. The advertising companies concerned had agreed to pay Re.1 per square foot royalty per year on such hoarding.