[2024] 11 S.C.R. 970 : 2024 INSC 858 Rajive Raturi v. Union of India & Ors. (Writ Petition No. 243 of 2005) 08 November 2024 [Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud,* CJI, J.B. Pardiwala and Manoj Misra, JJ.] Issue for Consideration Writ Petition sought directions to ensure meaningful access to public spaces for persons with disabilities (PWDs). Directions were issued by this Court to the States and Union Territories however, in view of slow progress in compliance, the Centre for Disability Studies, NALSAR University of Law was appointed to assess the situation on the ground and recommend steps to ensure compliance with accessibility standards for PWDs. Submissions filed by the petitioner; report submitted by NALSAR-CDS. Headnotes† Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016 – s.40 – Right of Persons with Disabilities Rules, 2017 – r.15(1) – r.15(1), if ultra vires the 2016 Act: Held: Yes – Guidelines prescribed in Rule 15 are recommendatory under the garb of mandatory rules – Rule 15(1) is ultra vires the scheme and legislative intent of the RPWD Act which creates a mechanism for mandatory compliance – Union Government to delineate mandatory rules, as required by Section 40, within three months from the date of this – This exercise may involve segregating the non-negotiable rules from the expansive guidelines already prescribed in Rule 15 – Union Government must conduct this exercise in consultation with all stakeholders – NALSAR- CDS to be involved in the process – Progressive compliance with the standards listed in the existing Rule 15(1) and the progress towards the targets of the Accessible India Campaign must continue unabated – However, in addition, a baseline of non-negotiable rules must be prescribed in Rule 15 – Once these mandatory rules are prescribed, the Union of India, States and Union Territories are directed to ensure that the consequences prescribed in Sections 44, 45, 46 and 89 of the RPWD Act, including the holding back of *Author [2024] 11 S.C.R. 971 Rajive Raturi v. Union of India & Ors. completion certificates and imposition of fines are implemented in cases of non-compliance with Rule 15 – Various principles of accessibility to be considered while carrying out the aforesaid exercise, enumerated – Union Government to meaningfully consider the recommendations proposed by the petitioner and NALSAR- CDS with regard to the existing legal framework, while reworking the content of Rule 15. [Paras 76, 77] Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016 – Disability as a Social Model– United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities – Universal and Inclusive Model of Design – Goal, stated – Accessibility – Reasonable Accommodation and Accessibility – Two-Pronged Approach to accessibility: Held: State cannot negate its duty to accessibility by relying solely on existing standards or waiting for individual requests – Accessibility is not a standalone right; it is a prerequisite for PWDs to exercise other rights meaningfully – Accessibility requires a two-pronged approach (i) that focuses on ensuring accessibility in existing institutions/activities and (ii) that focuses on transforming new infrastructure and future initiatives – Both are essential to achieving true inclusivity in society – Explained.