xxx xxx xxx 42. Endorsement of instruments in which duty has been paid under sections 35, 40 or 41— (1) When the duty and penalty (if any) leviable in respect of any instrument have been paid under section 35, section 40 or section 41, the person admitting such instrument in evidence or the Collector, as the case may be, shall certify by endorsement thereon that the proper duty or, as the case may be, the proper duty and penalty (stating the amount of each) have been levied in respect thereof, and the name and residence of the person paying them. 996 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (2) Every instrument so endorsed shall thereupon be admissible in evidence, and may be registered and acted upon and authenticated as if it had been duly stamped, and shall be delivered on his application in this behalf to the person from whose possession it came into the hands of the officer impounding it, or as such person may direct: Provided that— (a) no instrument which has been admitted in evidence upon payment of duty and a penalty under section 35, shall be so delivered before the expiration of one month from the date of such impounding, or if the Collector has certified that its further detention is necessary and has not cancelled such certificate; (b) nothing in this section shall affect the Code of Civil Procedure,1882 (14 of 1882), section 144 clause 3.” 21. According to the language of the section 35 of the Stamp Act, instruments not duly stamped would be inadmissible in evidence, and any instrument chargeable with duty would be admissible in evidence only and only if such instrument is duly stamped. The proviso gives illustration as to how the instrument would become admissible upon payment of duty with which it was chargeable or in case of instruments insufficiently stamped, the payment is made to make up such duty along with penalty mentioned therein. It also refers to exceptions where a document could be admissible in evidence under a given situation. As elaborated in clauses (b), (c), (d) and (e) of the proviso, the instrument in question i.e. agreement to sell dated 23.03.1999 does not fall under any exception. 22. Section 36 of the Stamp Act provides for admissibility of an instrument not being questioned if the same had been admitted in evidence on the ground that it is not duly stamped except as provided under section 61 of the Stamp Act. In the present case, the instrument in question was admitted subject to objection as noted in the deposition of the plaintiff (PW-1) and recorded in the sheet of the Trial Court dated 07.03.2003. As such section 36 of the Stamp Act will not come to the rescue of the plaintiff. 23. Section 40 of the Stamp Act gives power to the Collector to stamp such instruments which have been impounded. The Collector will [2024] 8 S.C.R. 997 Bidyut Sarkar & Anr. v. Kanchilal Pal (Dead) Through Lrs.