[2024] 6 S.C.R. 452 : 2024 INSC 395 Mrs. Bhumikaben N. Modi & Ors. v. Life Insurance Corporation of India (Civil Appeal No.270 of 2012) 08 May 2024 [A. S. Bopanna and C. T. Ravikumar,* JJ.] Issue for Consideration Whether the issuance of Acceptance-cum-First Premium Receipt gave rise to a presumption of acceptance of the policy by the insurer; whether the NCDRC was justified in dismissing the appellants’ complaint and reversing the concurrent s of the forums below, in exercise of its revisional jurisdiction, wherein directions were issued for payment of benefits in terms of the subject life insurance policy and for grant of compensation. Headnotes† Consumer Protection Act, 1986 – s.21(b) – Revisional power – Insurance – Life Insurance Policy – Deceased submitted proposal for Life Insurance Policy on 06.07.1996 – Issued cheque towards premium on 09.07.1996 – Met with an accidental death on 14.07.1996 – Appellants (widow and children of deceased) claimed benefits based on Insurance Policy – Claim repudiated by respondent primarily contending that the proposal form was accepted only on 15.07.1996 whereas the death of the deceased was on 14.07.1996 and therefore, there was no concluded contract as mere preparation of the policy document is not acceptance so as to create a concluded contract – District Forum allowed the complaint filed by appellants – Appeal thereagainst dismissed by State Commission – In revision, NCDRC reversed the said s of the forums below and dismissed the complaint – Sustainability: Held: It is the case of the appellants that the first premium was accepted and a duly signed receipt (Acceptance-cum-First Premium Receipt-Annexure B) therefor was issued by the respondent on 09.07.1996 – The factum of receipt of cheque amount cannot be disputed by the respondent – The cheque amount was received prior to the death of ‘the deceased’ is also not in dispute – In Annexure B, it is specifically stated that the acceptance of * Author [2024] 6 S.C.R. 453 Mrs. Bhumikaben N. Modi & Ors. v. Life Insurance Corporation of India payment would place the insurer on risk with effect from the date of the said Acceptance-cum-First Premium Receipt, subject to the realization of the amount in cash and the terms and conditions of acceptance printed overleaf – What is printed overleaf is not on record as the same was not produced – The circumstances justify the conclusion of acceptance of the proposal prior to the death of ‘the deceased’ – Annexure B would justify drawing of presumption of acceptance of the policy and not otherwise – Thus, in view of the entire circumstances based on the documents in the s of the District Forum and the State Commission, in the light of the decision in D. Srinivas’s case, the proposal was accepted – No material irregularity or illegality in the conclusions drawn with regard to the acceptance of proposal by the District Forum confirmed by the State Commission with reasons – In the absence of anything suggesting that the State Commission acted in the exercise of its jurisdiction illegally or with material irregularity, interference with an of the State Commission confirming the of the District Forum, in exercise of the limited revisional power u/s.21 (b), by NCDRC, is unsustainable – Impugned set aside and that of the District Forum which was confirmed by the State Commission,is restored.