In our view, the liberty reserved by this Court vide its second , to revive the request of the appellant will have to be construed as a liberty given by this Court to revive his prayer afresh after filing of the final complaint/charge-sheet. Undisputedly, the present appeals have been filed after the final complaint/charge-sheet has been filed by the respondents. In that view of the matter, we are not inclined to entertain the preliminary objection and the same is rejected. CONSIDERATION AS TO WHETHER THE APPELLANT IS ENTITLED FOR BAIL: 36. Having rejected the preliminary objection, we will proceed to consider as to whether in the facts and circumstances of the present case, the appellant is entitled to grant of bail or not. 37. Insofar as the contention of the learned ASG that since the conditions as provided under Section 45 of the PMLA are not satisfied, the appellant is not entitled to grant of bail is concerned, it will be apposite to refer to the first of this Court. No doubt that this Court in its first in paragraph 25, after recapitulating in paragraph 24 as to what was stated in the charge-sheet filed by the CBI against the appellant, observed that, in view of the aforesaid discussion, the Court was not inclined to accept the prayer for grant of bail at that stage. However, certain paragraphs of the said cannot be read in isolation from the other paragraphs. The will have to be read in its entirety. In paragraph 28 of the said , this Court observed that the right to bail in cases of delay, coupled with incarceration for 1078 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports a long period, depending on the nature of the allegations, should be read into Section 439 Cr.P.C. and Section 45 of the PMLA. The Court held that the constitutional mandate is the higher law, and it is the basic right of the person charged of an offence and not convicted that he be ensured and given a speedy trial. It further observed that when the trial is not proceeding for reasons not attributable to the accused, the court, unless there are good reasons, would be guided to exercise the power to grant bail. The Court specifically observed that this would be true where the trial would take years. It could thus clearly be seen that this Court, in the first round of litigation between the parties, has specifically observed that in case of delay coupled with incarceration for a long period and depending on the nature of the allegations, the right to bail will have to be read into Section 45 of PMLA. 38. A Division Bench of this Court in the case of Ramkripal Meena v. Directorate of Enforcement 5 was considering an application of the petitioner therein who was to receive a bribe of rupees five crore and from whom, an amount of Rs.46,00,000/- was already recovered. In the said case, the petitioner was arrested on 26th January 2022 in connection with FIR No.