Digital Supreme Court Reports in service of the appellant, to appoint, dismiss or hold disciplinary enquiries against other employees, the same indicated that the respondent did not belong to the managerial category and held him to be a “workman”. The learned Single Judge, thus, set aside the award and remanded the matter to the Labour Court for adjudication on merits within 3 months therefrom. Aggrieved by the learned Single Judge’s , the appellant filed Writ Appeal No.4067 of 2019 (L-TER) before the learned Division Bench, which was dismissed vide the impugned . SUBMISSIONS BY THE APPELLANT: 6. Mr C U Singh, learned senior counsel for the appellant submitted that the Labour Court’s covered in detail all the factual and legal aspects based on the evidence produced before it by both sides and needed no interference. It was urged that the learned Single Judge as also the learned Division Bench of the High Court erroneously interfered in the matter. It was submitted that the respondent was a Regional Business Head, whose nature of duties clearly established that he was a senior manager in the managerial cadre, earning an annual package of Rs.22,00,000/- (Rupees Twenty-Two Lakhs) and thus, was not covered by the definition of “workman” as per Section 2(s), ID Act. He contended that even the approach adopted by the learned Single Judge of re-appreciating the entire evidence and coming to a fresh conclusion was not proper while exercising jurisdiction under Articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution of India, 1950 (hereinafter referred to as the “Constitution”) as it was not a Court of first instance. 7. Mr Singh submitted that even without examining the Award and findings of the Labour Court, the learned Single Judge concluded that the same were perverse. It was advanced that the learned Division Bench, on the assumption that the learned Single Judge had examined the materials on record, concurred with the of the learned Single Judge, ignoring the admitted fact that the respondent had worked in progressively more senior managerial positions before joining the appellant as Senior Manager (Sales) in Band-2 which was equivalent to Deputy General Manager as also that his previous employment was as Regional Manager (South) in Kodak India Private Limited and he had joined the appellant as Head of Sales Operations for four Southern States (Karnataka, Tamil [2024] 4 S.C.R. 107 M/S Bharti Airtel Limited v. A.S. Raghavendra Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Kerala) and was also the Team Leader of a managerial team which comprised an Account Manager (Sales) each for the four States. It was canvassed that the respondent was also writing the half-yearly and annual performance assessments and appraisals of the Account Managers referred supra as also liaising, negotiating and representing the appellant/Company with senior government officials of the Indian Administrative Service and the General Managers of various Public Sector Undertakings. 8. Further, learned Senior Advocate submitted that the burden of proving that the respondent was a “workman” under the ID Act, was not discharged and he had neither pleaded nor proved the nature of duties and functions performed by him.