It was further held that the decisions relying on Pune Municipal Corporation (supra) had attained finality and were binding on the parties, and that the decision to review such final decisions would fly in the face of the public policy underlining the Explanation i.e., interest reipublicae ut sit finis litium (it is in the interest of the State that there should be an end to a litigation). In thus rejecting the RPs on the ground of maintainability, the Hon’ble Judge was guided, inter alia, by decisions of this Court in Chajju Ram v. Neki15 and Haridas Das v. Usha Rani Banik16 wherein this Court had held that the grounds for review laid down by Rule 1 of XLVII, CPC do not include within their ambit, the rehearing of a dispute solely on the ground that the on which the decision in the dispute had been relied upon, was overruled. Netaji Cricket Club (supra) was distinguished by observing that “exercise 15 AIR 1922 PC 112 16 [2006] 3 SCR 87 : (2006) 4 SCC 78 [2024] 5 S.C.R. 971 Govt. of NCT of Delhi Through Its Secretary, Land and Building Department & Another v. M/s K.L. Rathi Steels Limited and Others of review jurisdiction in that case, based on a subsequent event was confined to purely the facts of the said case involving a controversy between rival Cricket Associations” and hence could not be applied as a general ratio. F. SUBMISSIONS 23. It is as a consequence of the split-verdict that the RPs were heard by the present three-Judge Bench to decide the point of maintainability of the RPs and to settle the ancillary issues raised in K.L. Rathi Steels Limited (supra). 24. Though it may not be absolutely necessary to note the elaborate submissions advanced from the Bar by learned senior counsel/counsel for the parties since such submissions have been captured in the minutest detail in the split-verdict, for the sake of completeness, we shall briefly refer to the same. 25. Ms. Bhati, learned Additional Solicitor General, appearing on behalf of the review petitioners (the Govt. of NCT, Delhi), with all the passion at her command, argued that the RPs are maintainable and advanced, in support of maintainability, the following submissions: a) The specific and categoric overruling of Pune Municipal Corporation (supra), and all other decisions in which Pune Municipal Corporation (supra) was followed, leads to the conclusion, in absolute terms, that land acquisition proceedings cannot be deemed to have lapsed under section 24(2) unless the conditions enumerated in paragraph 366 of Manoharlal [5-Judge, lapse] (supra) are satisfied. b) Vide dated 16th July, 2020 in Pune Municipal Corporation [Recall ] (supra), the decision in Pune Municipal Corporation (supra) has been recalled and the position of law, as expounded therein, stands erased, leading the findings operating inter se the parties to cease. c) To dismiss the review/recall petitions at the threshold as not being maintainable will lead to a great injustice and undermine the public interest, particularly in the light of the ‘liberty’ granted by this Court in Shailendra [3-Judge] (supra).