Admittedly, Balaji Chimnaji More was not an ‘officiator’ covered by Section 23 of the 1874 Act. This is also demonstrated by the fact that his legal heirs paid only six times the assessment for regrant of the Watan lands under Section 5 of the Abolition Act and not twelve times, as would be applicable to an officiator. Ergo, the subject Watan lands were not covered by Section 88(1)(a) of the Tenancy Act and could not be treated as Government lands. 21. By virtue of the ‘Explanation’ to Section 88(1)(a) of the Tenancy Act, all other Watan lands, including the subject Watan lands, were covered by all the provisions of the Tenancy Act. However, Section 88CA thereof, introduced in the statute book in July, 1958, granted such Watan lands exemption from Sections 32 to 32-R, 33-A, 33-B and 33-C. Therefore, Sections 29 and 31 of the Tenancy Act were very much applicable to such Watan lands all through. Section 29, titled ‘Procedure of taking possession’, states to the effect that no landlord shall obtain possession of any land or dwelling house held by a tenant except under an of the Mamlatdar and for obtaining [2024] 3 S.C.R. 607 Baban Balaji More (Dead) by LRs. & others v. Babaji Hari Shelar (Dead) by LRs. & others such an , he should make an application in the prescribed form within the prescribed time. Section 31 is titled ‘Landlord’s right to terminate tenancy for personal cultivation and non-agricultural purpose’ and provided the mode and method in which a landlord could terminate the tenancy of any land, except a permanent tenancy. Thereunder, the landlord had to file an application for possession before the Mamlatdar before Tillers’ Day. This being the position, the heirs of the original Watandar could not have aspired to secure possession without reference to this procedure. 22. The limited exemption from certain provisions of the Tenancy Act, afforded by Section 88CA thereof, continued until the Abolition Act came into force on 01.01.1963. Thereafter, as the very institution of Patel Watan stood abolished, the limited exemption extended to such Watan lands under Section 88CA of the Tenancy Act also ceased. This is made clear by Section 8 of the Abolition Act, which reads as under: ‘8. Application of existing tenancy law- if any watan land has been lawfully leased and such lease is subsisting on the appointed day, the provisions of the relevant tenancy law shall apply to the said lease, and the rights and liabilities of the holder of such land and his tenant or tenants shall, subject to the provisions of this Part, be governed by the provisions of that law: Provided that, for the purposes of application of the provisions of the relevant tenancy law in regard to the compulsory purchase of land by a tenant, the lease shall be deemed to have commenced from the date of the regrant of the land under section 5 or 6 or 9, as the case may be. Explanation- For the purposes of this section, the expression “land” shall have the same meaning as is assigned to it in the relevant tenancy law.’ 23.