198. However, unless the legislation is clearly arbitrary, this onus cannot be reversed liberally, as sought by the Petitioners. In the present case, the classification was not ex-facie arbitrary as it was grounded in the legitimate context of the unique circumstances prevailing in Assam. In addition, as discussed in paragraph 192, many States in India share a sui generis relationship with the Union, thereby raising the threshold for establishing ex-facie arbitrariness of Section 6A. Accordingly, the burden rested upon the Petitioners to rebut this presumption and demonstrate that other States were also comparably situated and faced similar levels of violence. 199. The illustrated burden has not been discharged by the Petitioners, and this Court is not engaging in a fact-finding endeavor at this stage. We are, therefore, bound to uphold the presumption of constitutionality and assume that the legislature has duly applied its mind and has taken into consideration relevant circumstances. 200. Further, the implementation of the Assam Accord and Section 6A brought quietus to the then-ongoing discord while concurrently enabling India to uphold its diplomatic commitments to Bangladesh and address humanitarian concerns. Although there is merit in the concern surrounding Assam alone having to shoulder the burden of these immigrants, it must be noted that this is not attributable to Section 6A alone. It is well documented, both by historians and by previous decisions of this Court, that incessant migration from Bangladesh has continued post-1971. It was neither the intention 151 State of Madhya Pradesh v. Bhopal Sugar Industries Ltd., 1964 SCC OnLine SC 121, para 11. 152 Ameerunnissa Begum v. Mahboob Begum (1952) 2 SCC 697, para 19; Ram Prasad Narayan Sahi v. State of Bihar (1953) 1 SCC 274, para 12. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1087 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 nor the effect of Section 6A to give shelter to this latter class of immigrants. Indeed, a large cause of the Petitioners’ grievance is the government’s failure to give effect to this latter part of the Assam Accord and our citizenship regime–which envisages timely detection and deportation of these post-1971 immigrants. 201. However, even if it is assumed that other States are similarly placed and should have been included thereunder, this alone would not render Section 6A unconstitutional. Under-inclusiveness and unconstitutionality of Section 6A 202. As was discussed previously in paragraphs 180 to 182 of this judgement, Courts are generally tolerant of marginally under-inclusive legislations and recognize that similar cases may fall on both sides of the dividing line, provided that there is a broad discernible classification based on intelligible differentia.153 While analyzing validity under Article 14, the Court has to be cognizant of the fact that any division done by a classification cannot be mathematically precise and accurate. As long as the broad purpose of the law is being fulfilled, a classification cannot be deemed unreasonable. 203. We are thus of the considered opinion that even if there are States that could share similar characteristics with Assam, the comparison should be between two broad classes: Assam and the rest of India, rather than each individual constituent of these two classes.