When PW-4 questioned X, she again told the above referred facts and the reason for her consuming poison. PW-4 stated that she along with PW-3 and the neighbours shifted X to Kiran Nursing Home and from there to Mission Hospital, Mysore. On 06.07.2000 at about 7:30 PM X died while on treatment in the Mission Hospital. 17.2 In her cross-examination, PW-4 stated that she had told her neighbour about X telling her that she had consumed poison due to the ill treatment and harassment meted out to her by the accused. Her neighbours did not come to the house of the deceased with her. When she had reached the house of X people had gathered. According to PW-4, she knew the neighbours. When she talked with X, the said neighbours were present. 18. PW-11 is M.S. Sathyanaraya who was the investigating officer. In his testimony he stated that he had visited the spot of occurrence. He had sent the viscera of the deceased for chemical examination. He had submitted the chargesheet against the accused on 17.11.2000. He stated that after receiving the FSL report he had sent the same to the concerned doctor who had conducted post-mortem examination of the deceased for opinion regarding cause of death of the deceased. He had obtained the final opinion of the doctor in this regard. 18.1 In his cross-examination he stated that he had not examined the owner of the house where the accused used to reside. He had also not examined the neighbours of the said house. To a pointed query, PW-11 stated that his investigation disclosed that the accused used to threaten the deceased on public road often. He did the same act fifteen days prior to the death 342 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of deceased X. He admitted that he had not examined the witnesses of that area. 19. R. Vijaya Kumar is the elder brother of the deceased X. He is PW-12. He stated that his sister X had consumed poison in the house and had died in the hospital while undergoing treatment. On 05.07.2000 at about 01:30 PM he had received a phone message that his sister X had consumed poison. He reached Mysore at about 7:30 PM and went to see his sister X in the Mission Hospital where she was undergoing treatment. He found her to be not in a condition to talk. 19.1 He stated that could come to know from his another sister PW-2 Meena that accused had harassed his sister X with proposal for marriage which was the reason for her to consume poison. 19.2 He further stated that he had not told the police about the PW-2 telling him that the accused had threatened his sister. He did not know the details as to how his sister X had consumed poison and the amount of poison. He denied a suggestion that the accused was not responsible for the suicidal death of X and that it was because of their enmity with the accused that they had filed a false complaint against the accused.