(Paragraph 41) (v) The Court therefore opined that the impugned legislation apart from being beyond the legislative competence of the [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1587 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. State was also violative of Article 14 of the Constitution and hence was liable to be declared as ultra-vires the Constitution. The impugned Act therefore was declared as ultra-vires the Constitution. (Paragraph 44) 9. Justice H.K. Sema in his concurring opinion had observed in Paragraph 48 thereof* that in Indra Sawhney vs. Union of India and Others,* the discussion of creamy layer was confined to Other Backward Classes only, and had no relevance in the case of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. Justice S.B. Sinha also in his concurring opinion referred to certain observations made in Indra Sawhney and observed in Paragraph 38 that the principle laid down in Indra Sawhney for sub-classification of Other Backward Classes cannot be applied as a precedent law for sub- classification or sub grouping Scheduled Castes in the Presidential List, because that very itself has specifically held that sub- division of Other Backward Classes is not applicable to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. The Constitution itself has kept the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes List out of interference by the State Governments. In Paragraph 93 thereof,* it has been held that “Scheduled Castes”, is not a caste in terms of its definition as contained in Article 366 (24) of the Constitution. They are brought within the purview of the said category by reason of their abysmal backwardness. Scheduled Caste consists of not only the people who belong to some backward caste but also race or tribe or part of groups within the castes, races, or tribes. They are not merely backward but the backward most. A person even does not cease to be a Scheduled Caste automatically even on his conversion to another religion. It was further observed that the two groups that is socially and educationally backward classes and Scheduled Castes were differentiated for the purpose of Clause (4) of Article 15 of the Constitution as therein Scheduled Castes had been recognized, in the nature of things, to be backward but it is also recognized that besides them, there may be other groups of persons who are backward and deserve preferential treatment. 10. Again, after referring to the observations made in Indra Sawhney regarding the “means-test and creamy layer test,” it was observed by * (1992) Supp. 3 SCC 217 [Ed note: This * mark refers to footnote 5] * (2005) 1 SCC 394 [Ed note: This * mark refers to footnote 4] 1588 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Justice Sinha in Paragraph 96 thereof that whenever such a situation arises in respect of Scheduled Castes, it will be Parliament alone to take the necessary legislative steps in terms of Clause (2) of Article 341 of the Constitution, and the States do not have the legislative competence therefor. 11. The aforesaid in E.V. Chinnaiah* held the field for about 15 years till the Three-Judge Bench of this Court in State of Punjab and Others vs. Davinder Singh and Others* referred the matter to a larger Bench for consideration, opining that the of Five- Judge Bench in E.V.