The appellants have taken out various Interlocutory Applications before the trial Court and the same are pending without there being any s. 15. At this juncture, it is to be noted that the subject temple is a unique, ancient and historical one and its area comprises a sprawling of 21.25 acres of land. That apart, it administers/runs a hospital, viz., Parabrahma Super Speciality Hospital & Research Centre, a 364 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Nursing College and a Nursing School, to cater to the needs of the general public. In the given facts, it is imperative to restore, protect and preserve temples and their properties with utmost care. It is also an admitted fact that the suit for framing of Scheme for the subject temple is pending before the District Court and stands at the final decree stage. In such circumstances, we feel that it is just and necessary to conduct election under the aegis of a new Administrative Head/Administrator, for the smooth and effective administration of the subject temple and the institutions thereunder, which proposition has been agreed upon by the learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of all the parties. 16. In that view of the matter, we pass the following s: (i) Hon’ble Mr. Justice K.Ramakrishnan, a retired Judge of High Court of Kerala is appointed as Administrative Head/ Administrator to conduct election for the administration and management of the subject temple and its allied institutions, in a free and fair manner. (ii) The Administrative Head/Administrator so appointed shall commence the election process by finalising the voters’ list and publishing the same, etc., and complete the same strictly in accordance with the Bye-laws of the temple, within a period of four months from the date of receipt of a copy of this and thereafter, file his report to this Court. (iii) The Administrative Head/Administrator can appoint two officers i.e., one in the cadre of District Judge (Retd.) and another in the legal profession, to assist him for speedy completion of the assignment entrusted to him. (iv) The Administrative Head/Administrator shall be paid an honorarium of Rs.2,00,000/= per month, apart from reimbursement of all the expenses incurred by him, including travelling expenses, and those incurred towards the discharge of his duties, from the funds maintained by the subject temple. In case, he appoints a retired District Judge and an Advocate for his assistance, the Retired District Judge shall be paid an honorarium of Rs.75,000/= per month and the Advocate shall be paid a sum of Rs. 50,000/= per month. (v) The Administrative Head/Administrator shall incur all the expenses for smooth conduct of election and administration of [2024] 12 S.C.R. 365 Oachira Parabrahma Temple & Anr. v. G. Vijayanathakurup and Ors. temple and its institutions from and out of the funds maintained by the subject temple. (vi) It is open to the newly appointed Administrative Head to approach the trial Court for any clarification/directions relating to conduct of election, administration and management of the subject temple and its institutions.