(Emphasis supplied) [2024] 10 S.C.R. 271 Just Rights for Children Alliance & Anr. v. S. Harish & Ors. 192. What has been conveyed by this Court in so many words in the aforesaid paragraph of Noor Aga (supra) is that despite the statutory presumption of culpable mental state, the initial burden to establish the foundational facts will still lie on the prosecution. This Court by no stretch of imagination could be said to have held that the statutory presumption of culpable mental state would only be applicable in trial. Even otherwise, since the decision of Noor Aga (supra) arose from a criminal appeal against conviction, this Court by no extent had the occasion to examine the applicability of the statutory presumption to proceedings other than the trial and appeal thereof. 193. We are also in seisin of the fact that Section 30 sub-section (1) specifically provides that “the Special Court shall presume the existence of such mental state”. Similarly, Section 30 sub-section (2) also uses the words “Special Court”. However, this in no manner can be construed to hold that it is the Special Court alone which has been vested with the power to raise the presumption under Section 30 of the POCSO. We say so, because: - (i) First, the use of the words “the Special Court shall presume the existence of such mental state” in sub-section (1) and other mention of Special Courts in the provision is only explanatory in nature inasmuch as the legislature has used the said word to only explain how such presumption would ordinarily operate in a trial. It by no stretch can be understood as a bar on the applicability of such presumption to other proceedings, as the said provision does not in any manner delineate or lay down the scope of such presumption and rather only elucidates the nature of the presumption (i.e., presumption of culpable mental state), the manner in which it would operate (i.e., applicable to any offence under the POCSO which requires any culpable mental state) and the standard of proof required to prove anything contrary (i.e., beyond a reasonable doubt). By no means it could be said that the legislature by the use of the words “Special Court” in Section 30 of the POCSO intended to curtail the application of the said statutory provision only in trial. Any such interpretation would completely render the other penal provisions meaningless, wherever the accused at the earlier stages moves for a quashing petition. 272 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (ii) Secondly, the statutory presumption under Section 30 of the POCSO operates or gets attracted not by virtue of the court before which the matter happens to be at, but by the offence itself, for which the legislature specifically provides such presumption in the first place. Since, the presumption in essence is in respect of mens rea required for any offence under the POCSO, this presumption is inextricably linked to the offence alone and not the power conferred upon a particular court.