1169 Apoorva Arora & Anr. Etc. v. State (Govt. of Nct of Delhi) & Anr. 25. The law on determining obscenity has been summarised and reiterated in Ajay Goswami v. Union of India48 where the Court cited both Indian precedent and American jurisprudence. The principles that can be culled out from the are as follows: i. Obscenity must be judged with regard to contemporary mores and national standards.49 ii. The work must be judged as a whole and the alleged offending material must also be separately examined to judge whether they are so grossly obscene that they are likely to deprave and corrupt the reader or viewer.50 There must be a clear and present danger that has proximate and direct nexus with the material.51 iii. All sex-oriented material and nudity per se are not always obscene.52 iv. The effect of the work must be judged from the standard of an average adult human being.53 Content cannot be regulated from the benchmark of what is appropriate for children as then the adult population would be restricted to read and see only what is fit for children.54 Likewise, regulation of material cannot be as per the standard of a hypersensitive man and must be judged as per an “ordinary man of common sense and prudence”.55 v. Where art and obscenity are mixed, it must be seen whether the artistic, literary or social merit of the work overweighs its obscenity and makes the obscene content insignificant or trivial. In other words, there must be a preponderating social purpose or profit for the work to be constitutionally protected as free speech. Similarly, a different approach may have to be used when the material propagates ideas, opinions, and information of public interest as then the interest of society will 48 [2006] Suppl. 10 SCR 770 : (2007) 1 SCC 143 : 2006 INSC 995 49 ibid, para 67 50 ibid, para 68 51 ibid, para 70 52 ibid, paras 7 and 61 53 ibid, para 7 54 ibid, para 62 55 ibid, para 71 1170 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports tilt the balance in favour of protecting the freedom of speech (for example, with medical textbooks).56 vi. The Court must perform the task of balancing what is artistic and what is obscene. To perform this delicate exercise, it can rely on the evidence of men of literature, reputed and recognised authors to assess whether there is obscenity.57 26. In S. Khushboo v. Kanniammal,58 the issue pertained to quashing of FIR filed against the appellant, inter alia under Section 292 of the IPC, for an interview in a magazine where she called for the social acceptance of premarital sex, especially in live-in relationships, and cautioned women to take adequate protection to prevent unwanted pregnancies and sexually transmitted infections. The Court held that no offence was made out under Section 292 as the content is not lascivious (i.e., expressing or causing sexual desire); does not appeal to the prurient interest (i.e., excessive interest in sexual matters); and does not have the effect of tending to deprave and corrupt persons who are likely to read, hear, or see the material.59 It was reiterated that mere reference to sex does not make the material obscene without examining the context of such reference.60 The Court held that obscenity must be gauged with respect to “contemporary community standards that reflect the sensibilities as well as the tolerance levels of an average reasonable person.”61 In this case, the appellant had not described any sexual act or said anything that arouses sexual desire in the mind of a reasonable and prudent reader to make the content obscene.62 Hence the FIR was quashed by this Court.