vi. To attract the bar under Section 195(1)(b), the offence should have been committed when the document was in “custodia legis” or in the custody of the Court concerned. vii. The bar under Section 195(1)(b)(ii) cannot be thought to be applied when the forgery of a document has happened prior to its production in Court. The bar only applies in case the enumerated offence takes place after the production of the document or in evidence in any Court. viii. High Courts can exercise jurisdiction and power enumerated under Section 195 on an application being made to it or suo- motu, whenever the interest of justice so demands. ix. In such a case, where the High Court as a superior Court directs a complaint to be filed in respect of an offence covered under Section 195(1)(b)(i), the bar for taking cognizance, will not apply. 10 [2005] 2 SCR 708 : (2005) 4 SCC 370 11 [2014] 1 SCR 591 : (2014) 5 SCC 377 [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1461 M.R. Ajayan v. State of Kerala & Ors. 22. In the instant case, the High Court, on the basis of the above bar on taking cognizance, has quashed the taking cognizance and proceedings emanating therefrom. We are of the considered view, that this approach was not correct for the reasons set out below. 23. At this stage, we must reiterate and re-emphasize the genesis of the proceedings in this case. On a perusal of the FIR, it is clear that based on the letter issued by the Kerala High Court dated 27th September, 1994 and by the District Judge, Trivandrum, the offence was registered against the accused persons. The criminal proceedings clearly do not arise from a complaint by a private individual. 24. Elaborating the law to the attending facts, we notice that this Court in Perumal (supra) had observed: “19. Therefore, all that sub-section (4) of Section 195 says is that irrespective of the fact whether a particular court is subordinate to another court in the hierarchy of judicial administration, for the purpose of exercise of powers under Section 195(1), every appellate Court competent to entertain the appeals either from decrees or sentence passed by the original Court is treated to be a court concurrently competent to exercise the jurisdiction under Section 195(1). The High Courts being constitutional courts invested with the powers of superintendence over all courts within the territory over which the High Court exercises its jurisdiction, in our view, is certainly a court which can exercise the jurisdiction under Section 195(1). In the absence of any specific constitutional limitation of prescription on the exercise of such powers, the High Courts may exercise such power either on an application made to it or suo motu whenever the interests of justice demand.” 25. The above exposition came to be followed and expanded by this Court in Sivamani (supra), wherein it was observed: “12. …. While the bar against cognizance of a specified offence is mandatory, the same has to be understood in the context of the purpose for which such a bar is created.