The purchasers have acquired a legal right under Sale Deed (Ext.4). The right of the tenant under Ext.1, if it is true and valid, though earlier in time, is only an equitable right and it does not affect the purchasers if they are bona fide purchasers for valuable consideration without notice of that equitable right. *** 18. …If the purchasers have relied upon the assertion of the vendor or on their own knowledge and abstained from making inquiry into the real nature of the possession of the tenant, they cannot escape from the consequences of the deemed notice under Explanation II to Section 3 of the Transfer of Property Act.” The wilful abstention of the Defendants 4 and 5 to make an enquiry or search, is writ large on the fact of the records due to — (i) their failure to demand the production of the original title deeds before going ahead with the registration, (ii) the knowledge that they admittedly had at least about the other encumbrances existing in the property, and (iii) their retention of an amount of Rs. 2.5 crores from out of the total sale consideration of Rs. 4,11,08,000/=, specially for the purpose of settling the claim of the Plaintiffs. Since all the payments under Exx.A-29 to 34 to the tune of Rs. 55 lakhs, Rs. 35 lakhs, Rs. 60 lakhs, Rs. 130 [2024] 11 S.C.R. 883 Manjit Singh & Anr. v. Darshana Devi & Ors. lakhs, Rs. 130 lakhs and Rs. 1.08 lakhs (totalling to Rs. 4,11,08,000/-) were admittedly only cash payments and also since DW-1 categorically admitted that a sum of Rs. 2.5 crores, out of the above amount was retained by the Defendants 4 and 5 for settling the claim of the second Plaintiff, the Defendants 4 and 5 had a duty cast upon them to make a search or enquiry about the nature of such a claim. Their failure to do so, amounted to wilful abstention leading to constructive notice.” (Emphasis supplied) 17. In the case reported in Kailas Etc., Works v. Munlity, B. & N., reported in 1968 Bombay Law Reporter 554, the Bombay High Court observed as follows: — “A person cannot be said to act honestly unless he acts with fairness and uprightness. A person who acts in a particular manner in the discharge of his duties in spite of the knowledge and consciousness that injury to someone or group of persons is likely to result from his act or omission or acts with wanton or wilful negligence in spite of such knowledge or consciousness cannot be said to act with fairness or uprightness and, therefore, he cannot be said to act with honesty or in good faith. Whether in a particular case a person acted with honesty or not will depend on the facts of each case. Good faith implies upright mental attitude and clear conscience. It contemplates an honest effort to ascertain the facts upon which the exercise of the power must rest. It is an honest determination from ascertained facts.