Defining each word or expression that is part of normal or commercial [2024] 5 S.C.R. 919 All India Bank Officers’ Confederation v. The Regional Manager, Central Bank of India and Others vocabulary is neither possible nor expedient. It would be a superfluous exercise, and make statutes voluminous. Instead, popular meaning makes the statute simpler and easier for the common people. After all, it is the common person who is concerned with the ramifications of a statute, and thus, the common man’s understanding is the definitive index of the legislative intent. The reason is simple. The legislature is assumed to be aware of the well-understood meaning attributed to the word/expression, and by necessary implication the legislature by not prescribing a fixed and exact definition, ascribes the prevalent meaning assigned to the word/expression in common parlance or commercial usage. This would include meaning assigned to technical words in a particular trade, business or profession, etc. when the legislation is concerning a particular trade, business or transaction. This rule equally applies to construing words or expressions in a taxation statute. 14. In the present case, Section 17(2(viii) is a residuary clause, enacted to provide flexibility. Since it is enacted as an enabling catch-within- domain provision, the residuary clause is not iron-cast and exacting. A more pragmatic and commonsensical approach can be adopted by locating the prevalent meaning of ‘perquisites’ in common parlance and commercial usage. 15. The expression ‘perquisite’ is well-understood by a common person who is conversant with the subject matter of a taxing statute. New International Webster’s Comprehensive Dictionary defines ‘perquisites’ as any incidental profit from service beyond salary or wages; hence, any privilege or benefit claimed due.12 ‘Fringe benefit’ is defined as any of the various benefits received from an employer apart from salary, such as insurance, pension, vacation, etc. Similarly, Black’s Law Dictionary defines ‘fringe benefit’ as a benefit (other than direct salary or compensation) received by an employee from the employer, such as insurance, a company car, or a tuition allowance.13 The Major Law Lexicon has elaborately defined the words ‘perquisite’ and ‘fringe benefit’.14 12 The New International Webster’s Comprehensive Dictionary, p.941. 13 Black’s Law Dictionary, p.188 (10th Edition). 14 Perquisite means something gained by a place or office beyond the regular salary or fee. It is a gain or profit incidentally made from employment. P. Ramanatha Aiyar The Major Law Lexicon, Vol. 5, p. 5059- 5069 (4th Edition). 920 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 16. ‘Perquisites’ has also been interpreted as an expression of common parlance in several decisions of this Court. For example, ‘perquisite’ was interpreted in Arun Kumar v. Union of India,15 with respect to Section 17(2) of the Act. The Court referenced its dictionary meanings and held that ‘perquisites’ were a privilege, gain or profit incidental to employment and in addition to regular salary or wages. This decision refers to the observations of the House of Lords in Owen v. Pook,16 where the House observed that ‘perquisite’ has a known normal meaning, namely, a personal advantage.