557 Subodh Kumar Singh Rathour v. The Chief Executive Officer & Ors. be adjudicated by the court under its writ jurisdiction, as in all such cases, it could be said that the ‘real grievance’ was essentially only one being that of breach of a contract for which the appropriate remedy would be an ordinary suit and not a writ petition. One of the earliest judicial pronouncements in this regard is the decision of this Court in Radhakrishna Agarwal & Ors. v. State of Bihar & Ors. reported in (1977) 3 SCC 457 wherein the following relevant observations were made: - “19. [...] None of these cases lays down that, when the State or its officers purport to operate within the contractual field and the only grievance of the citizen could be that the contract between the parties is broken by the action complained of, the appropriate remedy is by way of a petition under Article 226 of the Constitution and not an ordinary suit. There is a formidable array of authority against any such a proposition. [...]” (Emphasis supplied) 36. It was further explained by this Court in Radhakrishna Agarwal (supra) that once the State or its instrumentalities enter into a contract, any dispute arising out of that contract cannot be decided in writ jurisdiction as their relations no longer remain governed by the constitutional provisions, and it is only the contract which thereafter determines the rights and obligations of the parties. Any claim to a right flowing from a contract cannot be redressed through the writ jurisdiction except where some statute steps in and confers some special statutory power or obligation on the State in the contractual field or if the agreement is in the nature of a statutory contract. The relevant observations read as under: - “10. [...] But, after the State or its agents have entered into the field of ordinary contract, the relations are no longer governed by the constitutional provisions but by the legally valid contract which determines rights and obligations of the parties inter se. No question arises of violation of Article 14 or of any other constitutional provision when the State or its agents, purporting to act within this field, perform any act. In this sphere, they can only claim rights conferred upon them by contract and are bound by the terms of the contract only unless some statute steps in 558 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports and confers some special statutory power or obligation on the State in the contractual field which is apart from contract. 11. In the cases before us the contracts do not contain any statutory terms or obligations and no statutory power or obligation which could attract the application of Article 14 of the Constitution is involved here. Even in cases where the question is of choice or consideration of competing claims before an entry into the field of contract facts have to be investigated and found before the question of a violation of Article 14 could arise.