In City Municipal Council, question arose whether the Railway (Local Authorities Taxation) Act, 1941 which created a liability on the Railways to taxation by local authorities was contrary to Article 285 (1) of the Constitution. It was held that the aforesaid Act being enacted prior to the enforcement of the Constitution was not a law which came within the scope of the expression “save in so far as Parliament may by law otherwise provide” in clause (1) of Article 285. Hence, it was observed that the said law could not be enforced after the enforcement of the Constitution, and the Railway property was immune from State taxation. 21.7 As already noted, clause (2) of Article 285 is in the nature of an exception or a proviso to clause (1) of the said Article. 924 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports However, it empowers Parliament to restrict the exception. In other words, any local taxes on Union property which were saved by virtue of clause (2) of Article 285 shall cease to be valid as soon as the Parliament by law provides to that effect. This implies that clause (2) of Article 285 which saves the existing power of the State and the local lawful bodies to tax Union property would continue and the status quo would be maintained till Parliament would legislate otherwise. In clause (2) of Article 285, the expression “liable or treated as liable” is of significance. The conditions necessary to bring a property within clause (2) of Article 285 in to make it liable to taxation are as under: "(a) Physical existence of the property immediately before the commencement of the Constitution; (b) Liability of the property to the tax on that date; (c) Physical existence of the property now, i.e., at the time when the tax is sought to be levied; (d) Liability of the property to tax now; (e) The tax in question must be the ‘same tax’ as that which was levied or leviable at the commencement of the Constitution; (f) The local authority seeking to levy the tax must be in the same State to which the pre-Constitution authority belonged.” [Source: Shorter Constitution of India by D.D. Basu, 16th Edition] 21.8 The aforesaid conditions would mean that the nature, type and the property on which the tax is being levied prior to the commencement of the Constitution must be the same, as also the local authority of the same State to which it belongs before the commencement of the Constitution. If the conditions of clause (2) of Article 285 are not satisfied, the pre-Constitution tax cannot be continued to be levied by a State by virtue of Article 372(1) as the latter Article states that the continuance of the existing law would be ‘subject to the other provisions of the Constitution’. Hence, any law which is inconsistent with Article 285 cannot be continued by virtue of Article 372(1) of the Constitution. [2024] 2 S.C.R. 925 Lucknow Nagar Nigam & Others v. Kohli Brothers Colour Lab.