1422/KB/2018 under Section 9 of the IBC before the National Company Law Tribunal, Kolkata (“NCLT, Kolkata”) seeking initiation of the corporate insolvency resolution process of the appellant. The appellant opposed the application, inter alia, on the ground that there were disputes between the parties even prior to the issuance of demand notice under Section 8 of IBC. The appellant also relied on the notice invoking the arbitration clause in support of its contention. 13. The NCLT, Kolkata vide dated 12.02.2020, admitted the application of the respondent and appointed an Interim Resolution Professional (IRP). On the aspect of existence of disputes between the parties, the following observations were made: "17. As regards the pre-existing dispute, we have gone through all the facts stated by the Corporate Debtor but having regard to the quantum of claim in respect of supplies , in our considered view, the amount of disputed claim due and payable will be more than Rs. One lakh in any case. Hence, such claims do not help the case of Corporate Debtor in substantial manner. Having said so, we would further refer to the provisional statement attached with the letter of the Corporate Debtor dated June 25, 2014 copy of which has been placed at Page 1779 of Vol. 10 of the paper book to find as to what is the factual position as per the stand of Corporate Debtor on various issues. As per this provisional statement, the total purchase value has been shown as Rs. 3818.72 lakhs. There have been several deductions including for services provided by Corporate Debtor to the Operational Creditor in the execution of the contract, entry tax, TDS, WCD, payment to parties/ payment to Operational Creditor by the Corporate Debtor / sub-vendors and sub-contractors/vendors of the Operational Creditor. These are normal deductions as per business practice and terms of contract. However, it 146 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports is noteworthy that Liquidated Damage @ 5% amounting to Rs. 190.94 lakhs, Performance Bank Guarantee to the tune of 673.6 lakhs, work claim of Rs. 352.00 lakhs for boiler house extension P.O. finalisation and additional work 71 lakh have also been considered. The net effect has been worked out by Corporate Debtor as Rs. 500 lakhs receivable from the Operational Creditor. If the boiler house extension and additional work are ignored, the amount recoverable from the Operational Creditor gets reduced to 63.13 lakhs. Further, if the amount retained for Performance Bank Guarantee is taken into consideration, then the amount payable to Operational Creditor works out at Rs. 610.23 lakhs (i.e., 673-63.13). As noted earlier, L.D. is applicable @ 5% amounting to Rs. 190.94 lakhs has already been deducted. Further, amount of Rs. 400.55 lakhs in respect of Purchase s issued at the risk and cost of the vendor have also been deducted. Thus, all recoveries for non-performance / default has been considered and therefore, amount of Performance Bank Guarantee minus recovery i.e., 610.23 lakhs at least becomes payable by Corporate Debtor to the Operational Creditor.