(6) A party to the contract containing jurisdiction clause cannot normally be prevented from approaching the court of choice of the parties as it would amount to aiding breach of the contract; yet when one of the parties to the jurisdiction clause approaches the court of choice in which exclusive or non-exclusive jurisdiction is created, the proceedings in that court cannot per se be treated as vexatious or oppressive nor can the court be said to be forum non-conveniens. (7) The burden of establishing that the forum of choice is a forum non-conveniens or the proceedings therein are oppressive or vexatious would be on the party so contending to aver and prove the same." (Emphasis supplied) 69. What can be discerned from above is that where more than one forum is available, it is the discretion of the court to entertain the matter by examining as to which is the appropriate forum more suited for the interests of all the parties and the ends of justice. Ordinarily, the burden to prove that the court or forum in seisin of the matter is an inconvenient forum or the proceeding therein are oppressive or vexatious lies on the party contending the same, yet the choice of forum by the other party is not decisive, and that it is for the court to determine whether the proceedings before it might be an inconvenience to the interests of the parties or less appropriate for the subject-matter in question. 70. Thus, even if it is assumed that Clause 27 of the aforesaid Distributorship Agreement conferred concurrent jurisdiction to both the 1230 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports courts in UAE and the other courts and thus, the petitioner herein was well-within its right to approach this Court in terms of the non-exclusive jurisdiction clause for the purpose of appointment of arbitrator, this Court can decline to exercise its jurisdiction if there exists a more appropriate forum. As discussed in the foregoing paragraphs, the seat of arbitration in terms of the aforesaid Distributorship Agreement is Dubai, UAE, both the law governing the contract and the curial law are the laws of UAE, the respondent no. 1 herein with whom the petitioner’s credit account lies is also situated in Dubai, even the venue of arbitration is Dubai, thus by all reasons of logic the more appropriate forum suitable for appointment of arbitrator is Dubai, UAE and not the courts of India. E. CONCLUSION 71. From the above exposition of law, the following position of law emerges: - (i) Part I of the Act, 1996 and the provisions thereunder only applies where the arbitration takes place in India i.e., where either (I) the seat of arbitration is in India OR (II) the law governing the arbitration agreement are the laws of India. (ii) Arbitration agreements executed after 06.09.2012 where the seat of arbitration is outside India, Part I of the Act, 1996 and the provisions thereunder will not be applicable and would fall beyond the jurisdiction of Indian courts.