Sub-section (2) thereof provides that any person, who wilfully and maliciously gives false information and so causes an arrest or a search being made under this Act shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to two years or with fine or with both. 21. The notice which was given by the learned Special Judge to the appellant and other police officers was for the offence punishable under Sections 58(1) and (2) of the NDPS Act. As such, it could be seen that the proceedings which were initiated by the learned Special Judge against the appellant were for the offence punishable for which the maximum sentence provided in the NDPS Act was up to two years. Section 36-A (5) of the NDPS Act which begins with the non-obstante clause provides that notwithstanding anything contained in the Cr.P.C., the offences punishable under this Act with imprisonment for a term of not more than three years may be tried summarily. It could thus be seen that even if the proceedings were to be initiated against the appellant for the offence punishable under Section 58 of the NDPS Act, the appellant was required to be tried summarily. 22. A bench of learned three Judges of this Court in the case of Tofan Singh (supra) was considering a question as to whether officers of departments other than the police, on whom the powers of an officer in charge of a police station under Chapter XIV of the Cr.P.C., have been conferred, are police officers or not within the meaning of [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1059 Bharti Arora v. The State of Haryana Section 25 of the Evidence Act. This Court answered the question that the officers who are invested with powers under Section 53 of the NDPS Act are “police officers” within the meaning of Section 25 of the Evidence Act, as a result of which any confessional statement made to them would be barred under the provisions of Section 25 of the Evidence Act, and cannot be taken into account in to convict an accused under the NDPS Act. This Court observed thus: “145. A third anomalous situation would arise, in that under Section 36-A(1)(a) of the NDPS Act, it is only offences which are punishable with imprisonment for a term of more than three years that are exclusively triable by the Special Court. If, for example, an accused is tried for an offence punishable under Section 26 of the NDPS Act, he may be tried by a Magistrate and not the Special Court. This being the case, the special procedure provided in Section 36-A(1)(d) would not apply, the result being that the Section 53 officer who investigates this offence, will then deliver a police report to the Magistrate under Section 173 CrPC. Absent any provision in the NDPS Act truncating the powers of investigation for prevention and detection of crimes under the NDPS Act, it is clear that an offence which is punishable for three years and less can be investigated by officers designated under Section 53, leading to the filing of a police report.