Addiction at a young age can derail academic, professional and personal aims, leading to long-term socio-economic instability of almost an entire generation. The psychological impact of drug abuse, including depression, anxiety, and violent tendencies, further exacerbates the problem. 9.6 The reasons behind this rise in juvenile addiction are complex. Peer pressure, lack of parental affection, care and guidance, stress from academic pressures and the easy availability of drugs contribute to this alarming trend. In many cases, adolescents resort to drugs as a form of escapism, trying to cope with personal and emotional issues. 9.7 Preventing drug addiction among adolescents requires a concerted effort from multiple stakeholders: parents and siblings, schools and the community. Given the disturbing rise in adolescent drug use, urgent interventions are needed. 9.8 The MoSJE 2019 Report found that only one among four persons suffering from dependence on illicit drugs had ever received any treatment and only one in twenty persons with illicit drug dependence ever received any in-patient treatment. Given the scale of the issue, there is need for a more comprehensive view of the solutions to the grave problem. Parents: 9.9 Parents have a crucial role in the prevention of drug abuse among adolescents. Parental awareness, communication, and support are key in mitigating the risk of drug addiction. The first step in the effective preventive leap should start within the household. In our view, the most important yearning of children is love and affection and a sense of security emanating from parents and family. Domestic violence and discord between parents; lack of time being spent by parents with children due to various reasons and compensating the same by pumping pocket money are some of the reasons why young adolescents are being veered 1792 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports towards escapism and substance abuse. Affectionate and friendly conversations between parents and children and a continuous assessment of the direction in which a child is proceeding is a duty which each parent must undertake. This is to build a sense of emotional security around a child for, in our view, an emotionally secure child would not become vulnerable and be lured towards substance abuse as a possible path towards seeking what is lacking in life. No longer should drug abuse be treated as a taboo that parents disengage from. Instead, open discussions about drug use and its ill consequences will provide parents and children a safe space and equip children with the knowledge to help themselves out of peer pressure. Schools and Colleges: 9.10 Of equal importance is the need for schools and colleges to aid the government programs in educating students about the perils of drug abuse. They must include prevention of drug abuse in their curriculum, focusing on the physical, emotional, and legal consequences of drug abuse. Naturally, all efforts should be backed by scientific evidence and experiential learning. It is an urgent need that the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment’s framework of National Action Plan for Drug Demand Reduction and other programs are given a boost and truly imbibed in drug education programs run by schools and colleges in the country.