The court has to analyse which of the hypotheses should be accepted in a particular case. Further, a fact already known to the police is not admissible under Section 27 of the Evidence Act. 13. As the disclosure statement (Exhibit P-35) has led to the arrest of the appellant, Santosh @ Rajesh @ Gopal, the prosecution may take the benefit of Section 8 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872. However, even assuming this to be the case, the absence of any corroborative evidence directly linking the appellant to the crime introduces a significant gap in facts as alleged in the chain of circumstances. In our view, this fails to establish a hypothesis of guilt that conclusively excludes all other reasonable possibilities. 6 [2024] 1 SCR 87 7 [1976] 1 SCR 715 : (1976) 1 SCC 828 [2024] 9 S.C.R. 615 Santosh @ Rajesh @ Gopal v. State of Madhya Pradesh 14. This Court, in State of Maharashtra v. Suresh,8 observed that when any incriminating material is discovered based on a disclosure statement, three hypotheses emerge: - “26. We too countenance three possibilities when an accused points out the place where a dead body or an incriminating material was concealed without stating that it was concealed by himself. One is that he himself would have concealed it. Second is that he would have seen somebody else concealing it. And the third is that he would have been told by another person that it was concealed there…” 15. In the present context, it is the prosecution’s case that the location of the pistol was disclosed by the co-accused, Nirbhay Singh (since deceased). However, to establish that the appellant, Santosh @ Rajesh @ Gopal, participated in the murder, the prosecution must present further material and evidence linking the appellant to the actual crime. While the appellant, Santosh @ Rajesh @ Gopal, may be guilty of an offence under Section 201 of the IPC, the evidence provided by the prosecution is insufficient to secure a conviction for the murder of the victim, Narayan Singh, on 13.11.2011. Consequently, the prosecution has failed to prove that the appellant, Santosh @ Rajesh @ Gopal, is guilty of murder, either individually or with shared common intention or in conspiracy with the co-accused, Nirbhay Singh @ Rajesh Mama (now deceased). 16. We, therefore, allow the present appeal and set aside the conviction of the appellant, Santosh @ Rajesh @ Gopal. The appellant, Santosh @ Rajesh @ Gopal, was granted bail by this Court on suspension of sentence, vide dated 08.04.2024. The bail bonds and sureties furnished by the appellant, Santosh @ Rajesh @ Gopal, shall be treated as cancelled. 17. The impugned is set aside and the appeal is allowed. Pending application(s), if any, shall stand disposed of. Result of the Case: Appeal allowed. †Headnotes prepared by: Nidhi Jain 8 [1999] Supp. 5 SCR 215 : (2000) 1 SCC 471