He has also attempted to distinguish the case of the AMU from that of St. Stephens [supra] by arguing that there were clear indicia of minority character in St Stephens College which are not present in case of the AMU. 83. Mr. Vivek Sharma, learned counsel, briefly submitted and reiterated that the administration of the AMU never vested in the Muslim community and always lay with the government under the 1920 Act. 84. Mr. Nachiketa Joshi, learned counsel, submitted a note which reiterates that it was the choice of the proponents of the AMU to seek government recognition for the AMU’s degrees. To that end, they accepted the establishment by the government instead of establishing the university themselves. It was argued that therefore the benefit 1944 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports of Article 30 cannot be claimed since establishment by the minority was missing. Further, the 1981 amendment was correctly struck down by the Division Bench of the Allahabad High Court as it was an attempt at legislative overruling of a judgement. 85. Mr. Sanjay Kumar Dubey, learned counsel, made reference to the original 1920 legislative council debates to submit that Shri Mohammed Shafi who had tabled the AMU bill had himself stated that this was to be an All-India and national institution. In view of the intent of the original movers of the Bill, the AMU cannot be said to be a minority institution. C.3. Submissions in Rejoinder 86. In rejoinder, Dr. Rajeev Dhawan, Ld. Senior Counsel, argued that both sides to the dispute agree that the words ‘establish’ and ‘administer’ in Article 30(1) must be read conjunctively, and not disjunctively. It was argued that it is also not in issue that the right to administer the educational institution flows from the proof of establishment, although they may exist in different points in time. 87. It was argued that the Respondents’ contention that AMU is a sui generis institution is not a valid ground to avoid the reconsideration of Azeez Basha [supra]. It was argued that every minority educational institution is a standalone institution to serve unique needs of their community, which includes catering to the educational needs of their community, conserving their unique script or culture, and achieving standards of excellence. 88. It is further urged that the minorities have been recognized in India even before the Constitution came into force and therefore, to say that Muslim community had no minority ‘group’ rights before 1950 is fallacious. It is argued that there exists a constitutional premium, as well as a statutory premium (for e.g., Central Educational Institutions (Reservation in Admission) Act, 2006) which is attached to minority exceptions and the minority dispensation. Therefore, it is not just Article 30 which recognizes the minority rights, but if the whole statutory dispensation analysed, it is clear that Parliament has excepted the minorities from Articles 15(5) and 15(6). 89. Additionally, certain other factors have been suggested by Dr. Dhawan, which may be determinative of minority character of a particular institute, which are as follows: [2024] 11 S.C.R.