However, the High Court directed the appellant to pay back wages to the extent of 75%. The aforesaid was challenged by the appellant by filing Letters Patent Appeal.8 Vide dated 26.07.2022, the appeal was disposed of while passing the following directions: “Private respondent No. 2 would not be entitled for any backwages as ed by learned Single Judge. Services of the private respondent No.2 shall be treated as continuous service from the date of his appointment till date of his superannuation. Private respondent shall be entitled for all the retiral benefits of his employment. All the benefits shall be granted to the private respondent No. 2 by the appellant as well as by the State authority within a period of eight weeks from the date of receipt of this along with interest, as per the prevailing policy in such cases. If the amount is not paid within a period of eight weeks, the appellant as well as respondent authority shall pay the entire amount along with interest at the rate of 9% per annum till it is actually paid.” 6. A perusal of the aforesaid direction shows that the back wages granted to the respondent no. 2 were set aside and the appellant as well as the State were directed to pay retiral dues to the respondent No. 2. Aggrieved against the aforesaid , the State as well as 7 Special Civil Application Number 4357 of 2000 8 Appeal No. 1456 of 2010 370 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the appellant filed Review Petitions.9 The review filed by the State was allowed vide dated 21.04.2023 and it was directed that the appellant shall be liable to pay the retiral dues. The as modified is extracted below: “7. We do recollect that the parties – the appellant University and the employee (original respondent No. 2) have agreed for such and, therefore, the was passed directing to grant benefits to the employee. However, through oversight, we have observed appellant as well as respondent – State shall be liable to pay the amount. Hence, we hereby modify the . Paragraphs 6 sub-para (3) and (4) shall read as under: “All the benefits shall be granted to the private respondent No.2 by the appellant within a period of eight weeks from the date of receipt of today’s along with interest, as per the prevailing policy in such cases. If the amount is not paid within a period of eight weeks, the appellant shall pay the entire amount along with interest at the rate of 9% per annum till it is actually paid”.” 7. Aggrieved against the aforesaid modification, where the direction has been issued to the appellant to pay retiral dues to the private respondent, the college is before this Court. 8. Learned counsel appearing for the appellant submitted that the passed by the High Court is not in consonance with the Scheme10 applicable for grant of retiral dues to an employee of an aided institution. The relevant paragraph of the Scheme applicable is extracted below: “11.