111. We shall briefly consider the object and scope of the 1993 Act for a better understanding of the issue before us. The Interest on Delayed Payments to Small Scale and Ancillary Industrial Undertakings Ordinance, 1992 was promulgated by the President of India on 23.09.1992. To replace this ordinance, the 1993 Act was enacted on 02.04.1993 and came into force with retrospective effect from 23.09.1992. Subsequently, the 1993 Act was repealed by the Micro Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006 (“MSMED Act, 2006”). The statement of objects and reasons to the 1993 Act reads as under: “A policy statement on small scale industries was made by the Government in Parliament. It was stated at that time that suitable legislation would be brought to ensure prompt payment of money by buyers to the small industrial units. 2. Inadequate working capital in a small scale or an ancillary industrial undertaking causes serious [2024] 5 S.C.R. 383 Fertilizer Corporation of India Limited & Ors. v. M/s Coromandal Sacks Private Limited and endemic problems affecting the health of such undertaking. Industries in this sector have also been demanding that adequate measures be taken in this regard. The Small Scale Industries Board, which is an apex advisory body on policies relating to small scale industrial units with representatives from all the States, governmental bodies and the industrial sector, also expressed this view. It was, therefore, felt that prompt payments of money by buyers should be statutorily ensured and mandatory provisions for payment of interest on the outstanding money, in case of default, should be made. The buyers, if required under law to pay interest, would refrain from withholding payments to small scale and ancillary industrial undertakings. 3. An Ordinance, namely, the Interest on Delayed Payments to Small Scale and Ancillary Industrial Undertakings Ordinance, 1992, was, therefore, promulgated by the President on the 23rd September, 1992. 4. The Bill seeks to replace the said Ordinance and to achieve the aforesaid objects.” 112. It is evident from the aforesaid statement of objects and reasons that the legislature desired to bring about a legislation which would ensure prompt payment of money to small scale units, as the absence of working capital may have severe impacts on the functioning of small scale and ancillary industries. The 1993 Act envisaged that there should be minimal delay in payments to small scale units. Section 2 of the 1993 Act provides for the certain important definitions which are reproduced hereinbelow: “(b) “appointed day” means the day following immediately after the expiry of the period of thirty days from the date of acceptance or the day of deemed acceptance of any goods or any services by a buyer from a supplier; Explanation.—For the purposes of this clause,— (i)“the day of acceptance” means,— (a) the day of the actual delivery of goods or the rendering of services; or 384 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (b) where any objection is made in writing by the buyer regarding acceptance of goods or services within thirty days from the day of the delivery of goods or the rendering of services, the day on which such objection is removed by the supplier; (ii) “the day of deemed acceptance” means, where no objection is made in writing by the buyer regarding acceptance of goods or services within thirty days from the day of the delivery of goods or the rendering of services, the day of the actual delivery of goods or the rendering of services; (c) “buyer” means whoever buys any goods or receives any services from a supplier for consideration; xxx xxx xxx (f) “supplier” means an ancillary industrial undertaking or a small scale industrial undertaking holding a permanent registration certificate issued by the Directorate of Industries of a State or Union territory and includes,— (i) the National Small Industries Corporation, being a company, registered under the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956); (ii) the Small Industries Development Corporation of a State or a Union territory, by whatever name called, being a company registered under the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956).