Section 5 states that property vested in the Custodian of Enemy Property for India under the Defence of India Rules, 1962 to continue to vest in the Custodian. The said provisions read as under: [2024] 2 S.C.R. 869 Lucknow Nagar Nigam & Others v. Kohli Brothers Colour Lab. Pvt. Ltd. & Others “3. Appointment of Custodian of Enemy Property for India and Deputy Custodian, etc.—The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint a Custodian of Enemy Property for India and one or more Deputy Custodians and Assistant Custodians of Enemy Property for such local areas as may be specified in the notification: Provided that the Custodian of Enemy Property for India and any Deputy Custodian or Assistant Custodian of Enemy Property appointed under the Defence of India Rules, 1962 or the Defence of India Rules, 1971, as the case may be, shall be deemed to have been appointed under this section. 4. Appointment of Inspectors of Enemy Property.— The Central Government may, either generally or for any particular area, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint one or more Inspectors of Enemy Property for securing compliance with the provisions of this Act and may, by general or special , provide for the distribution and allocation of the work to be performed by them for securing such compliance: Provided that every Inspector of Enemy Firms appointed under the Defence of India Rules, 1962 or the Defence of India Rules, 1971, as the case may be, shall be deemed to be an Inspector of Enemy Property appointed under this section. 5. Property vested in the Custodian of Enemy Property for India under the Defence of India Rules, 1962 to continue to vest in Custodian.—(1) Notwithstanding the expiration of the Defence of India Act, 1962 (51 of 1962), and the Defence of India Rules, 1962, all enemy property vested before such expiration in the Custodian of Enemy Property for India appointed under the said Rules and continuing to vest in him immediately before the commencement of this Act, shall, as from such commencement, vest in the Custodian. 870 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (2) Notwithstanding the expiration of the Defence of India Act, 1971 (42 of 1971) and the Defence of India Rules, 1971, all enemy property vested before such expiration in the Custodian of Enemy Property for India appointed under the said Rules and continuing to vest in him immediately before the commencement of the Enemy Property (Amendment) Act, 1977 (40 of 1977) shall, as from such commencement, vest in the Custodian. (3) The enemy property vested in the Custodian shall, notwithstanding that the enemy or the enemy subject or the enemy firm has ceased to be an enemy due to death, extinction, winding up of business or change of nationality or that the legal heir and successor is a citizen of India or the citizen of a country which is not an enemy, continue to remain, save as otherwise provided in this Act, vested in the Custodian.