In this proceeding the Court was examining a curative petition brought by Union of India seeking to re-open the settlement arrived at in the case arising out of Bhopal gas tragedy that occurred in 1984. Earlier review petitions questioning the settlement stood dismissed and Union of India had not asked for review thereof. Mr. Ramachandran has submitted that the earlier review petitions were dismissed after hearing in open Court and in spite of that, the Constitution Bench chose to hear the parties invoking curative jurisdiction of this Court. 772 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 17. In the decision of this Court in the case of Union Carbide (supra), the Constitution Bench of this Court in substance reaffirmed the direction contained in the case of Rupa Ashok Hurra (supra) limiting the scope of curative petitions by holding :- “28. We have great hesitation in allowing such a prayer and granting such sui generis relief through the means of curative petitions. Although this Court in Rupa Ashok Hurra chose not to enumerate all the grounds on which a curative petition could be entertained; the Court was clear in observing that its inherent power ought not to be exercised as a matter of course, and that it should be circumspect in reconsidering an of this Court that had become final on dismissal of the review petition. Nevertheless, looking at the nature of the matter before us, it would be advisable to also examine the curative petition(s), apart from the aforesaid preliminary objection.” 18. What is apparent from the tenor of the aforesaid s is that the question of maintainability of a curative petition has to be ultimately examined by a Bench of this Court. The composition of such bench has also been laid down in the case of Rupa Ashok Hurra (supra). This has further been incorporated in Rule 4 of XLVIII of the 2013 Rules. But the question of composition of the Bench can arise only after the curative petition is entertained. The point with which we are dealing with in this is not whether the curative petition ought to be dismissed by circulation or not. The issue we have to address is as to whether Registry has the power to dismiss a curative petition solely on the ground that no averment has been made to the effect that the review petition was dismissed by circulation. We accept the submission of Mr. Ramachandran that this is a matter which ought to be decided by a Bench of this Court and not by the Registry. This is a judicial exercise. That is what in effect flows from the Bench of coordinate strength in its of 08.02.2016 in the case of Rama Rao Poal (supra). Moreover, while in the case of Rupa Ashok Hurra (supra) certain conditions have been prescribed on satisfaction of which a curative petition would lie, there is no discussion or stipulation in the that in absence of averment to that effect, the curative petition ought to be dismissed at the registration stage itself.