Free speech within Parliament is crucial for democratic governance. It is through the fearless expression of their views that Parliamentarians pursue their commitment to those who elect them. The power of speech exacts democratic accountability from elected governments. The free flow of dialogue ensures that in framing legislation and overseeing government policies, Parliament reflects the diverse views of the electorate which an elected institution represents. 182. The Constitution recognises free speech as a fundamental right in Article 19(1)(a). A separate articulation of that right in Article 105(1) shows how important the debates and expression of view in Parliament have been viewed by the draftspersons. Article 105(1) is not a simple reiteration or for that matter, a surplusage. It embodies the fundamental value that the free and fearless exposition of critique in Parliament is the essence of democracy. Elected Members of Parliament represent the voices of the citizens. In giving expression to the concerns of citizens, Parliamentary speech enhances democracy. […]” (emphasis supplied) 66. Notably, unlike the House of Commons in the UK, India does not have ‘ancient and undoubted’ rights which were vested after a struggle between Parliament and the King. On the contrary, privileges were always governed by statute in India. The statutory privilege transitioned to a constitutional privilege after the commencement of the Constitution. However, while the drafters of the Constitution expressly envisaged the freedom of speech in Parliament, they left the other privileges to be decided by Parliament through legislation. 512 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Clause (3) of Article 105 states that in respect of privileges not falling under Clauses (1) and (2) of Article 105, the powers, privileges and immunities of each House of Parliament, and of the members and the committees of each House, shall be such as may from time to time be defined by Parliament by law. Until Parliament defines these privileges, they are to be those which the House and its members and committees enjoyed immediately before the coming into force of Section 15 of the Constitution (Forty-fourth Amendment) Act, 1978. Section 15 reads as follows: “15. Amendment of article 105.-In article 105 of the Constitution, in clause (3), for the words “shall be those of the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom, and of its members and committees, at the commencement of this Constitution”, the words, figures and brackets “shall be those of that House and of its members and committees immediately before the coming into force of section 15 of the Constitution (Forty-fourth Amendment) Act, 1978” shall be substituted.” 67. The privileges enjoyed by the House and its members and committees immediately before the coming into force of Section 15 of the Forty-fourth amendment to the Constitution were those enjoyed by the House of Commons in the UK at the commencement of the Constitution of India. This was also the case with Clause (3) of Article 194 which was amended by Section 26 of the Forty- fourth amendment to the Constitution. The reference to the House of Commons was accepted by the Constituent Assembly for two reasons.