Similar, In case of Harljan Bhala Teja vs. State of Gujarat (2016) 12 SCC 665, the Supreme Court has held that:- “No doubt, where, on appreciation of evidence on record, two views are possible, and the trial court has taken a view of acquittal, the appellate court should not interfere with the same. However, this does not mean that in all the cases where the trial court has recorded acquittal, the same should not be interfered with, even if the view is perverse. Where the view taken by the trial court is against the weight of evidence on record, or perverse, it is always open far the appellate court to express the right conclusion after re-appreciating the evidence If the charge is proved beyond reasonable doubt on record, and convict the accused.” 10. In view of the above settled principles of law, we will have to examine the present case. 56 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 11. It is not in dispute that the death of the deceased is a homicidal death and as such, it will not be necessary to refer to the medical evidence. The only question that remains is as to whether the prosecution has proved its case beyond reasonable doubt and as to whether the appellants are guilty of committing the crime. 12. Learned trial Judge, by elaborately discussing the evidence, had found that the appellants were not guilty. We crystallize the findings of the learned trial Judge, as under: 12.1 Beni Prasad (PW-1), who is the father of the deceased, had deposed that when he went to call his son Mahesh Sahu for dinner then Mahesh Sahu was standing at the Chowk with Pappu Tamrakar and two boys. Mahesh Sahu told him that he would come later, then Beni Prasad (PW-1) went to his house and fell asleep and later at night around 11:45 P.M., one boy came to him and told him that Ballu Chaurasiya (appellant No. 1), Santosh Chaurasiya and other persons were beating Mahesh Sahu. On hearing this, he ran towards the house of Ballu Chaurasiya wearing chaddhi and baniyan. He saw that Ballu Charuasiya, Santosh Chaurasiya and his two brothers were dragging Mahesh Sahu in dead condition and put his body 10 feet away from their house. After that the accused Ballu Chaurasiya went inside his house. Beni Prasad (PW-1) went near the place where Mahesh Sahu’s body was lying and he found him to be dead. At that point of time, Sumitra Bai (PW- 6), the mother of the deceased also came there and she saw that Jamuna Bai (appellant No. 2), who is the mother of the accused Ballu Chaurasiya, was cleaning the blood on the door. 12.2 Beni Prasad deposed that in the last month of the year 1991 (December 1991) his son Mahesh Sahu went to Bhopal for an interview and there was no news about him for about eight months. Thereafter, a letter came to him from his son in the fourth month of the year 1992 (April 1992) informing him that he was working at Agra and that he had married a girl named Anita, who is the sister of the accused/appellant No.