Of course, whether there is any legal or constitutional bar in adopting such policy can certainly be examined by the Court”. (Emphasis supplied) 49. In Balco Employees’ Union v. Union of India reported in (2002) 2 SCC 333 this Court held that it is not for the courts to consider the relative merits of different economic policies and consider whether a better policy may be evolved. It further held that when it comes to policy decisions on economic matters, the courts ought to be very circumspect in disturbing such conclusions unless there is 94 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports an illegality in the decision itself. The relevant observations read as under: - “93. Wisdom and advisability of economic policies are ordinarily not amenable to judicial review unless it can be demonstrated that the policy is contrary to any statutory provision or the Constitution. In other words, it is not for the Courts to consider relative merits of different economic policies and consider whether a wiser or better one can be evolved. For testing the correctness of a policy, the appropriate forum is the Parliament and not the Courts. xxx xxx xxx 98. In the case of a policy decision on economic matters, the Courts should be very circumspect in conducting any enquiry or investigation and must be most reluctant to impugn the judgement of the experts who may have arrived at a conclusion unless the Court is satisfied that there is illegality in the decision itself.” (Emphasis supplied) 50. It is possible that at the relevant time in respect of some of the minerals, royalty was being computed without inclusion of the royalty, DMF and NMET contributions previously paid, however, that does not mean that the Central Government’s power is restricted and that the Central Government cannot alter the mode of computation of royalty. Merely, because the methodology or formula for computation of royalty has been altered from what it was under the erstwhile MCR, 1960 will not make the new mechanism or methodology unreasonable or arbitrary and liable to be struck down. 51. From the above conspectus of decisions referred to by us, it is clear that the whether a particular policy is wise or that a better public policy can be evolved is purely the domain of the executive of the state. Matters such as computation of royalty or the levy of such royalty on different minerals is entirely a matter of policy making which is beyond the expertise and domain of the courts. It is no longer res-integra, that a question as regards the validity of a particular policy is concerned with reviewing not the merits of such decision or policy, but the very policy making process itself. The duty of the courts is to confine itself to the question of legality and [2024] 12 S.C.R. 95 Kirloskar Ferrous Industries Limited & Anr v. Union of India & Ors. its concern should be whether a policymaking authority exceeded its powers, whether it committed an error of law or committed a breach of the rules of natural justice or reached a decision which no reasonable authority would have reached or whether it has abused its powers.