31. Further, in the light of the aforestated discussion, the argument of the appellants that the tenants ought to have challenged the regrant dated 27.11.1964 is without merit. In fact, the tenants were benefited by the said regrant as the exercise of their right to purchase the land hinged upon the passing of that regrant , in terms of the proviso to Section 8 of the Abolition Act. The argument to the contrary is, therefore, rejected. 32. It appears that during the pendency of this litigation, the subject agricultural Watan lands became part of the extended city limits of Pimpari Chinchwad Municipal Corporation and are presently reserved for Defence purposes (Red Zone) in the development plans sanctioned by the Government of Maharashtra. In consequence, these lands cannot be alienated without the prior approval of the Government of India and the Government of Maharashtra. While so, we find that both sides have been merrily entering into transactions with third parties to alienate/transfer the subject lands. However, our decision in this case relates back to a time when the subject lands were still agricultural in nature and use and it would have no impact on the present position and the consequences flowing therefrom. Further, inter se disputes, be it betwixt the appellants or betwixt the tenants, are not the subject matter of this appeal and have not been dealt with. All such disputes would have to be addressed independently before the appropriate forum in accordance with law, if still permissible. [2024] 3 S.C.R. 613 Baban Balaji More (Dead) by LRs. & others v. Babaji Hari Shelar (Dead) by LRs. & others 33. On the above analysis, we hold that it was not open to the appellants to proceed against the tenants under the provisions of Sections 5, 11 and 11A of the 1874 Act after the death of Balaji Chimnaji More, the original Watandar, in February/March, 1958. This is because the provisions of the Tenancy Act were very much applicable to the subject lands by then and more so, Sections 29 and 31 thereof. Therefore, the legal heirs of the original Watandar could not have taken lawful possession of these lands from the tenants pursuant to the dated 18.04.1961 passed under Sections 5, 11 and 11A of the 1874 Act. The same was rightly held to be invalid in the revisionary dated 03.05.1982 and that finding was correctly held to be justified by the Bombay High Court. We also hold that the tenancy was lawfully subsisting on 01.04.1957, i.e., Tillers’ Day, and the tenants were entitled to exercise their right of statutory purchase of these tenanted agricultural Watan lands under Section 32 of the Tenancy Act in terms of Section 8 of the Abolition Act, after the exemption afforded by Section 88CA ceased to exist. That right became operational on 27.11.1964, when these Watan lands were regranted to the heirs of the original Watandar. Viewed thus, we find no grounds made out, either on facts or in law, to interfere with the impugned dated 01.02.2005 passed by the Bombay High Court.