to the appellant- Corporation and Section 8(2)(vi) is only an enabling provision. The Custodian collects the taxes on behalf of the enemy and pays it to the appellant and not as owner of the enemy property. [2024] 2 S.C.R. 915 Lucknow Nagar Nigam & Others v. Kohli Brothers Colour Lab. Pvt. Ltd. & Others 17.7 Per contra, Shri Guru Krishna Kumar, learned senior counsel appearing for the respondent-lessee contended that the subject property being enemy property vested with the Custodian under the Act is the property of the Union or Central Government and therefore, is exempt from any taxation under clause (1) of Article 285 of the Constitution. 17.8 Interestingly, while both learned ASG Sri Balbir Singh, appearing for the Union of India and Sri Gurukrishna Kumar, learned senior counsel appearing for the respondent-lessee have contended that the subject property is Union property, between them there is also a difference in their stand in the matter. While learned ASG contended that there is no exemption from payment of municipal taxes, on the other hand, learned senior counsel Sri Gurukrishna Kumar appearing for the respondent-lessee contended that the subject property being Union property is totally exempt from any kind of taxes to be paid to any Government or local authority. 17.9 But in view of our above analysis, we hold that the vesting of enemy property in the Custodian does not transfer ownership of such property in the Custodian and by that process in the Union or Central Government, but since the Custodian is only a trustee of the enemy property, the same is liable to tax in accordance with law, including to the appellant herein. The Custodian is only authorised to pay the taxes on the subject enemy property by virtue of sub-section (2) of Section 8 of the Act. The Custodian while doing so is not acting on behalf of the Union Government being the owner of the enemy property, rather, the Custodian who is appointed by the Central Government under the provisions of the Act, which is a Central legislation only discharges his duties and functions under the provisions of the Parliamentary legislation i.e. the Act under consideration. Such discharge of duties and functions, including the payment of taxes vis-à-vis enemy property vested in him would not also by the same logic imply that the Custodian is acting as if the property vested in him has become the Union property. We emphasise again that mere vesting of enemy property in the Custodian does not transfer ownership of the same from the enemy to the Union or to the Central Government; the ownership remains with 916 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the enemy but the Custodian only protects and manages the enemy property and in discharging his duties as the Custodian or the protector of enemy property he acts in accordance with the provision of the Act and on the instructions or guidance of the Central Government. The reason as to why the Central Government is empowered to issue guidelines or instructions to the Custodian is because the Custodian is appointed under the Act which is a Parliamentary legislation and the reason why the Parliament has passed the said law is in to have a uniformity vis-à-vis all enemy properties throughout the length and breadth of the country in that the same are protected, managed and dealt with uniformly in accordance with the provisions of the Act.