However, failure to determine the jurisdictional fact, or erroneously determining it leading to conferment of jurisdiction, would amount to wrongful assumption of jurisdiction and the resultant liable to be branded as ultra vires and bad. 45. Should the trial court not satisfy itself that the jurisdictional fact for grant of relief does exist, nothing prevents the court higher in the hierarchy from so satisfying itself. It is true that the point of maintainability of a suit has to looked only through the prism of section 9, CPC, and the court can rule on such point either upon framing of an issue or even prior thereto if VII Rule 11 (d) thereof is applicable. In a fit and proper case, notwithstanding omission of the trial court to frame an issue touching jurisdictional fact, the higher court would be [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1129 R. Kandasamy (Since Dead) & Ors. v. T.R.K. Sarawathy & Anr. justified in pronouncing its verdict upon application of the test laid down in Shrisht Dhawan (supra). 46. In this case, even though no issue as to maintainability of the suit had been framed in course of proceedings before the Trial Court, there was an issue as to whether the Agreement is true, valid and enforceable which was answered against the sellers. Obviously, owing to dismissal of the suit, the sellers did not appeal. Nevertheless, having regard to our findings on the point as to whether the buyer was ‘ready and willing’, we do not see the necessity of proceeding with any further discussion on the point of jurisdictional fact here. 47. However, we clarify that any failure or omission on the part of the trial court to frame an issue on maintainability of a suit touching jurisdictional fact by itself cannot trim the powers of the higher court to examine whether the jurisdictional fact did exist for grant of relief as claimed, provided no new facts were required to be pleaded and no new evidence led. conclusion 48. For the foregoing reasons, the appeals merit success and the same are allowed. We set aside the first appellate and decree of the High Court and restore that of the Trial Court with the result that the suit instituted by the buyer shall stand dismissed. 49. It is made clear that the buyer shall be entitled to return of the advance sum of Rs.25 lakh by the sellers. If not already returned, the sellers shall take steps in this behalf within a month from date. If the buyer has made any deposit pursuant to any of court, the same shall also be returned to her with accrued interest, if any. Result of the case: Appeals allowed. †Headnotes prepared by: Divya Pandey