Digital Supreme Court Reports were received on the draft notification – The Ministry of AYUSH is directed to expedite steps proposed to be taken by it – In view of the Court, an administrative instruction issued by virtue of the letter dated 29th August, 2023, cannot put on hold r.170 of the Drugs and Cosmetics Rules, 1945 so long as it remains enforceable in law – Additional Solicitor General submitted on instructions that the Ministry shall forthwith withdraw the letter dated 29th August, 2023 – Same was directed to be given an immediate effect. [Paras 9, 10, 11] Consumer Protection Act, 1986 – Central Consumer Protection Authority (Chapter III) – Use of: Held: When the C.P. Act, 1986 has dedicated an entire chapter to the Central Consumer Protection Authority (Chapter III) that contemplates establishment of a Central Consumer Protection Authority by the Central Government to regulate matters relating to violation of the rights of the consumers, unfair trade practices and false/misleading advertisements which are prejudicial to the interest of the public and consumers and to promote, protect and enforce the rights of the consumers as a class, the said provisions ought to be used with much more vigour and intensity. [Para 18] List of Acts Drug and Magic Remedies (Objectionable Advertisements) Act, 1954; Drug and Cosmetics Act, 1940; Consumer Protection Act, 1986; Drugs and Cosmetics Rules, 1945; TV channels under the Cable Television Networks (Regulation) Act, 1995; Food, Safety and Standards Act, 2006; Cable Television Networks (Amendment) Rules, 2021; Cable Television Networks Rules, 1994. List of Keywords Advertisement; Misleading advertisement; Deceptive advertisement; Responsibility and duty of manufacturers, Service providers; Advertisers; Advertising agencies; Enforcement of the fundamental right to health; Awareness regarding quality of products; Self- declaration by the advertiser/advertising agency; Violation of the rights of the consumers; Unfair trade practices. Case Arising From CIVIL ORIGINAL JURISDICTION: Writ Petition (Civil) No. 645 of 2022 (Under Article 32 of The Constitution of India) [2024] 6 S.C.R. 379 Indian Medical Association & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. Appearances for Parties P.S. Patwalia, Sr. Adv., Prabhas Bajaj, Priyanshu Tyagi, Amarjeet Singh, Rishav Rai, Ms. Deveshi Chand, Dipanshu Krishan, Advs. for the Petitioners. K.M. Natraj, ASG., Mukul Rohatgi, Vipin Sanghi, Balbir Singh, Arvind Nayar, C.U. Singh, Sr. Advs., Sharath Nambiar, Vinayak Sharma, Rajat Nair, Kanu Agrawal, Shashank Bajpai, Ms. Priya Mishra, Ishaan Sharma, Gurmeet Singh Makker, Harish Pandey, Shafik Ahmed, Ajay Sharma, Mukesh Verma, Ms. Priyanka, Sunny, Ms. Avni Singh, Jitin Chaturvedi, Ms. Bhawna Gera, Divyansh Shrivastava, Amrish Kumar, Simranjeet Singh, Gautam Talukdar, Raushal Kumar, Ms. Apurbaa Dutta, Ms. Neha Gupta, Ms. Smita Jain, Karan Jain, Rishabh Pant, Nikhil Rohatgi, Naman Tandon, Rohit Gandhi, Akshay Joshi, Ms. Vanshaja Shukla, Kumar Anurag Singh, Honey Khanna, Ms. Pallavi Langar, Ms. Aparna Bhat, Ms. Karishma Maria, Ms. Bidya Mohanty, Katyayani Suhrud, Ms. Mrinmoi Chatterjee , Ms. Mrinal Gopal Elker, Saurabh Singh, Ms. Swati Ghildiyal, Ms. Devyani Bhatt, Ms. Neha Singh, Ms. Abhipsa Mohanty, Ms. Indira Bhakar, Mukesh Kumar Verma, Kanu Agarwal, Varun Chugh, Vatsal Joshi, Rajesh Singh Chauhan, Anil Hooda, Vineet Singh, Piyush Beriwal, Mukesh Kumar Maroria, Ms. Sakshi Kakkar, Ms. Limayinla Jamir, Amit Kumar Singh, Ms. K. Enatoli Sema, Ms. Chubalemla Chang, Prang Newmai, Advs.