The argument of the Petitioners is similar. They contest that Section 6A has singled out the State of Assam alone vis-à-vis other Indian States situated alongside the Bangladesh b and has curtailed the rights of only its original inhabitants. Accordingly, their plea of violation of Article 14 requires determination on merits. 165. This position is also clearly buttressed in John Vallamattom v. Union of India,119 in which the Court was concerned with a similar question regarding the imposition of restrictions upon Indian Christians alone and not on citizens belonging to other religions. Not only did the Court treat such a claim as maintainable under law, but it also held the provision to be violative of Article 14 because it applied restrictions on one class alone: “28. The provision relating to making of testamentary disposition by the citizens of India vis-à-vis those professing the religion of Christianity must be judged on the touchstone of Article 14 of the Constitution of India. It is true that they form a class by themselves but ex facie I do not find any justifiable reason to hold that the classification made is either based on intelligible differentia or the same has any nexus with the object sought to be achieved.” “61. (…) The impugned provision is also attacked as discriminatory and violative of Articles 14 and 15 of the Constitution inasmuch as the restriction on bequest for religious and charitable purposes is confined to Christians alone and not to members of other communities. In my opinion, the classification between testators who belong to the Christian community and those belonging to other religions is extremely 118 Id. 119 John Vallamattom v. Union of India (2003) 6 SCC 611. 1076 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports unreasonable. All the testators who bequeath property for religious and charitable purpose belong to the same category irrespective of their religious identity and so the impugned provision, which discriminates between the members of one community as against another, amounts to violation of Article 14 of the Constitution. (…)” [Emphasis applied] 166. Given the law cited above, the Petitioners’ assertion founded upon Article 14 cannot be invalidated at a preliminary stage merely because they are seeking equality in regard to a restriction as opposed to a benefit. Hence, the Respondents’ objection regarding the maintainability of the Petitioners’ claim under Article 14 is liable to be rejected. (b) Section 6A vis-à-vis Article 14 167. The Petitioners argued that the exclusive application of Section 6A to Assam violates Article 14. They contended that by burdening Assam alone with the obligation to accommodate immigrants, Section 6A has detrimentally affected its natural resources and indigenous population. Furthermore, they asserted that since immigrants were also present in other States, there was no reasonable basis for discriminating against Assam and applying Section 6A solely to this State. 168. It is now a settled principle of law that the right to equality enshrined under Article 14 is not a mechanical idea of parity. Article 14 requires the legislature to treat equals equally, but it also allows for differential treatment if the characteristics of the classes differ.120 In fact, treating unequal entities alike and subjecting them to the same laws could potentially lead to greater injustice.