12.1 High Court of Punjab and Haryana (Refer to Serial No. 28.1) 13. State of Himachal Pradesh -Directions to be complied with: (i) In terms of direction contained in para 100.2, it is directed to provide the particulars of First Information Reports of cognizable and non-bailable cases in which the mandate of Sections 41, 41-A of CrPC and Arnesh Kumar (Supra) has not been followed and consequently to provide the details of necessary actions that have been taken against erring police officers. Also, in terms of direction contained in para 100.2, information has to be provided as to whether the Standing is being complied with by Investigating Officers. (ii) In terms of direction contained in para 100.7, the State is directed to give details of the number of Special Courts constituted and whether any steps are underway for creation of Additional Special Courts and at what stage. 1090 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (iii) Provide detailed Tabular chart (Part A) and steps taken to facilitate release of undertrial prisoners who continue to be in jail despite grant of bail. 13.1 High Court of Himachal Pradesh -Directions to be complied with: (i) In terms of the directions issued under Para 100.7, the High Court is directed to furnish information regarding the requirement of Special Courts and the status of any proposals for the same. (ii) In terms of directions issued under Para 100.8, the High Court is directed to ensure compliance and furnish information regarding steps taken to alleviate the conditions of the prisoners who have been identified as not being able to furnish sureties despite bail having been granted. (iii) In terms of the directions issued under Para 100.9, the High Court is directed to ensure compliance as to the filing of bail applications on behalf of undertrial prisoners and to furnish information on the same. (iv) To inform on whether the in Satender Kumar Antil (Supra) is being applied to petitions under Section 438 of CrPC. (v) In terms of direction contained in dated 03.02.2023, the High Court should inform on compliance for inclusion of Siddharth (Supra) and Satender Kumar Antil (Supra) in curriculum of judicial academy. 14. Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir -Directions to be complied with: (i) In terms of direction contained in para 100.2, the Union Territory is directed to provide the particulars of First Information Reports of cognizable and non-bailable cases in which the mandate of Sections 41, 41-A of CrPC and Arnesh Kumar (Supra) has not been followed and consequently to provide the details of necessary actions that have been taken against erring police officers. Also, in terms of direction contained in para 100.2, information has to be provided as to whether the Standing is being complied with by Investigating Officers. (ii) In terms of direction contained in para 100.7, the Union Territory is directed to give details of the number of Special Courts [2024] 2 S.C.R. 1091 Satender Kumar Antil v. Central Bureau of Investigation and Anr. constituted and whether any steps are underway for creation of Additional Special Courts and at what stage.