The stand of the respondent-assessee in reply to the show cause notices is that though the poly packs may have MRP printed on it, it was never intended for retail sale. Moreover, the respondent was packing 100 poly packs in one HDPE bag, and the HDPE bags were sold to distributors. The weight of the chewing tobacco in one poly pack or HDPE bag is more than 10 gms. Therefore, Rule 34(b) of the said Rules has no application. 8. As far as facts are concerned, even in the -in-original passed by the Commissioner, which was impugned before the Tribunal and in particular, clause (d) of paragraph 16, it is accepted that the respondent is packing 100 poly pack packages in one HDPE bag. 9. The real controversy is whether the commodity sold by the respondent will attract Section 4A of the Excise Act. Sub-section (1) of Section 4A of the Excise Act reads thus: “Section 4A. Valuation of excisable goods with reference to retail sale price. – [2024] 7 S.C.R. 123 Commissioner of Central Excise, Jaipur -II v. M/s Miraj Products Pvt. Ltd. (1) The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify any goods, in relation to which it is required, under the provisions of the Standards of Weights and Measure (PC) Rules, 1976 (60 of 1976) or the rules made thereunder or under any other law for the time being in force, to declare on the package thereof the retail sale price of such goods, to which the provisions of sub-section (2) shall apply.” (emphasis added) 10. In the facts of the case, chewable tobacco has been notified under sub-section (1) of Section 4A. The question is whether the provisions of the said Rules framed under the Standards of Weights and Measure (PC) Rules, 1977, require a declaration of retail sale on the packages of the respondent. In short, the controversy is whether the packages made by the respondent-assessee are such that under the said Rules, there is a requirement to declare the retail price of the goods on the packages. 11. Now, we turn to the said Rules. Chapter II of the said Rules deals with the provisions applicable to packages intended for retail sale. Retail sale is defined in Rule 2(q) of the said Rules, which reads thus: “(q) “retail sale” in relation to a commodity, means the sale, distribution or delivery of such commodity through retail sales agencies or other instrumentalities for consumption by an individual or group of individuals or any other consumer;” Therefore, to attract the definition of retail sale, a commodity has to be sold, distributed, or delivered for consumption by an individual, a group of individuals, or any other consumer. Thus, the sale or distribution of a commodity to a dealer who, in turn, sells the commodity to retail dealers will not be a retail sale. 12. Rule 2(g) defines group package which reads thus: “2(g) “group package” means a package intended for retail sale, containing two or more individual packages, or individual pieces, of similar, but not identical (whether in quantity or size), commodities; 124 [2024] 7 S.C.R.