In such a case, necessary deductions for the extent of land required for the formation of roads and other civil amenities; expenses of development of the sites by laying out roads, drains, sewers, water and electricity lines, and the interest on the outlays for the period of deferment of the realisation of the price; the profits on the venture etc. are to be made…. …” 2276 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports The appellant was claiming compensation @ Rs. 500 per sq. ft. and examined the valuer to substantiate the same which the Reference Court was not inclined to award and we agree with the Reference Court in that regard. We are also not awarding any amount for the 32% (approx.) of the land which, even according to the claimant, pertain to the area covered by roads and open space. We are not inclined to award any compensation or damages. Additionally for that reason also, we are not inclined to make any deductions from the market value fixed @ Rs. 100 per sq. ft. for the 68.3% (approx.) of the land. We have evidence to show that the land was ripe for use for building purposes. We are not inclined to, in the special facts and circumstances of the case, to any deduction based on extent of land and the cost for incurring development. The LAO in the award which in law is an offer, treated the appellant’s land and the land in Survey No. 7/2 (subject-matter of LAC No. 183/2000) on par and the Reference Court also treated them on par. 67. In this case since the acquisition is for construction of a flood protection wall, the question of there being any development or any cost thereof cannot arise. It is well settled that the purpose for which the land is acquired must be taken into consideration while determining development charges. 68. In Himmat Singh & Ors. Vs. State of Madhya Pradesh & Anr. (2013) 16 SCC 392, this Court, dealing with the issue of deduction of development charges in the context of acquisition for a railway line held as under: “33. The approach adopted by the Reference Court and the High Court in making deductions towards the cost of development/development charges from the market value determined on the basis of the sale deeds produced by the appellants was clearly wrong. The respondents had not even suggested that the development envisaged by the Reference Court i.e. laying of roads, drains, sewer lines, parks, electricity lines, etc. or any other development work was required to be undertaken for laying the railway line. Therefore, 25% deduction made by the Reference Court and approved by the High Court under two different heads is legally unsustainable.” [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2277 Kazi Akiloddin v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. 69. Insofar as the Development charge is concerned, as held in Himmat Singh, where no Development is envisaged like laying of roads, drains, sewer lines, parks etc. and what is required is only construction of a flood control wall, the question of deducting any development charge cannot arise.