It is for this reason that a variable percentage of admission of minority students depending on the type of institution and education is desirable, and indeed, necessary, to promote the constitutional guarantees enshrined in both Article 29(2) and Article 30. [emphasis supplied] 120 In re Kerala Education Bill(supra) [23] “23. […] the right conferred on such minorities is to establish educational institutions of their choice. It does not say that minorities based on religion should establish educational institutions for teaching religion only, or that linguistic minorities should have the right to establish educational institutions for teaching their language only. What the article says and means is that the religious and the linguistic minorities should have the right to establish educational institutions of their choice. There is no limitation placed on the subjects to be taught in such educational institutions. As such minorities will ordinarily desire that their children should be brought up properly and efficiently and be eligible for higher university education and go out in the world fully equipped with such intellectual attainments as will make them fit for entering the public services, educational institutions of their choice will necessarily include institutions imparting general secular education also.”; St. Xavier’s (supra) [Chief Justice Ray for himself and Justice Palekar, 8]; [Justice HR Khanna, 96]; [Justice Beg, 197]; [Justice Dwivedi, 236]; 121 See TMA Pai (supra) [88-90;144]; “144 […] As in the case of a majority-run institution, the moment a minority institution obtains a grant of aid, Article 28 of the Constitution comes into play. When an educational institution is maintained out of State funds, no religious instruction can be provided therein. Article 28(1) does not state that it applies only to educational institutions that are not established or maintained by religious or linguistic minorities. Furthermore, upon the receipt of aid, the provisions of Article 28(3) would apply to all educational institutions whether run by the minorities or the non- minorities. […] Just as Articles 28(1) and (3) become applicable the moment any educational institution takes aid, likewise, Article 29(2) would also be attracted and become applicable to an educational institution maintained by the State or receiving aid out of State funds.” 1748 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 132. The discussion above elucidates that the ‘minority character’ of the institution is not a rigid concept. The provision does not contemplate institutions which are exclusively for the benefit of members from the minority community. A minority institution established by a religious or linguistic minority need not be solely for their students or only for the purpose of teaching the tenets of their religion or language. The issue of whether an institution is a minority institution should not be determined purely on the basis of the number of their students or the teaching staff. Such an interpretation is contrary to precedent. 133. A holistic and realistic view should be taken keeping in mind the objective and purpose of the provision. Based on the above principles laid down by Benches of co-equal strength and larger Benches of this Court on the components of the ‘minority character’, the following inferences can be drawn: a.