Counsel for the plaintiff does not press the interim applications under 38 Rule 5 of Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (CPC) and 39 Rules 1 and 2 CPC. Accordingly, in the subject suit, there is no threat to the liquidation of the assets of the sick company and therefore no prior permission is required under Section 22 of SICA.” (Emphasis supplied) 95. In FMI Investment Pvt. Ltd. v. Montari Industries Ltd. and Another reported in (2012) SCC OnLine Del 5354, the High Court undertook a comprehensive analysis of the dictum as laid in Raheja Universal (supra) and Saketh India (supra) and held thus: “6. The salient conclusions which can be arrived at from reading of the aforesaid paras in the case of Raheja Universal (supra) are : - (i) The proceedings which are affected by Section 22(1) are proceedings in the nature of execution, distress or the like. (ii) It depends on facts of each case as to whether the suit is hit by Section 22 i.e. all suits including of recovery, are not hit by Section 22(1). (iii) Only those suits which have the effect of execution, distress or like action against the properties of the sick company are hit by Section 22 i.e. where a suit is simply for recovery of moneys, and the properties of a sick [2024] 5 S.C.R. 375 Fertilizer Corporation of India Limited & Ors. v. M/s Coromandal Sacks Private Limited company are not threatened by the proceedings including interim proceedings such as appointment of receiver, execution, distress or the like, such suits can continue without permission under Section 22. 7. Learned counsel for the defendant no. 2 sought to place reliance on the following three s to argue that permission under Section 22 is a sine qua non. (i) Managing Director, Bhoruka Textiles Ltd. v. Kashmiri Rice Industries (2009) 7 SCC 521; (ii) Tata Davy Ltd. v. State of Orissa (1997) 6 SCC 669; (iii) Dr. B.K. Modi v. Morgan Securities and Credits Pvt. Ltd. and Morgan Securities and Credits Pvt. Ltd. v. Dr. B.K. Modi MANU/DE/2779/2012 8. In my opinion, all the three s, which have been cited on behalf of defendant no. 2 have no application because the legal position is sufficiently elaborated by the Supreme Court in the of Raheja Universal (supra). 9. None of the aforesaid s cited on behalf of defendant no. 2 deal with the issue of interpretation of Section 22 of SICA as has been done by the Division Bench of three Judges in the case of Raheja Universal (supra) and which holds that unless the suit proceedings are in the nature of ‘execution, distress or the like’, the suit can continue. The s relied upon by the defendant no. 2 are s which simply hold that once a company is a sick company, permission is required under Section 22 of the SICA, however, none of the s cited on behalf of the defendant no. 2 deal with the proposition as incorporated in the later of the Division Bench of three Judges of the Supreme Court in the case of Raheja Universal (supra).