It states as follows: “Prefatory Note-Statement of Objects and Reasons. The Child Marriage Restraint Act, 1929, was enacted with a view to prevent child marriages, namely, a marriage to which either of the contracting parties is under a specified age. Originally, the age limit for a male was eighteen years and for a female fourteen years. The age limit was subsequently raised in the case of females from fourteen to fifteen by the Amending Act 41 of 1949. Violation of the provisions of the Act is made punishable. 2.⁠⁠ The question of increasing the minimum age of marriage for males and females has been considered in the present context when there is an urgent need to check the growth of population in the country. Such increase of the minimum age of marriage will result in lowering the total fertility rate on account of letter span of married life. It will also result in more responsible parenthood and in better health of the mother and child. A Bill introduced for this purpose in the Lok Sabha on 25th August, 1976, lapsed with the dissolution of the Lok on 18th January, 1977. The matter has examined in all its aspects again. 3.⁠⁠ The Bill seeks to amend the Child Marriage Restraint Act, 1929, to increase the minimum age of marriage from fifteen to sixteen for females and from eighteen to twenty- one for males and to make consequential amendments in the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955, and the Indian Christian 1548 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Marriage Act, 1872. It is also being provided that offences under the Child Marriage Restraint Act may be investigated upon by a police officer under the Code of Criminal Procedure as if it were a cognizable offence. The police officer shall, however, not have the power to arrest without a warrant or an of a Magistrate.” (emphasis supplied) 38. The CMRA did not stipulate that child marriages would be void, voidable or invalid. It did not affect the validity of child marriages and did not prohibit the marriage of a girl to an old man. This remained unchanged till Parliament repealed the CMRA and enacted the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act 2006. V. Contemporary legal framework A. The Prohibition of Child Marriage Act 2006 39. The National Commission for Women65 in its annual report for the year 1995-1996 proposed to amend the CMRA. It proposed that (i) the government should appoint Child Marriage Prevention Officers; (ii) punishments under CMRA be made more stringent; (iii) child marriages be declared void; (iv) a penal obligation be imposed on anyone attending a child marriage; and (v)all offences under the CMRA must be made cognizable without any qualification.66 The NCW further recommended that systematic efforts to spread awareness about the evils of child marriage be carried out.67 40. In 2001-2002, the National Human Rights Commission68 released its annual report which inter alia reviewed the CMRA. The NHRC proposed certain amendments to the CMRA to (i) provide for higher penalties for violation of the CMRA; (ii) stipulate action against organisers or associations who organise child marriages at a mass scale; (iii) make child marriages voidable at the instance of the minor party within two years of the party attaining the age of majority; 65 ‘NCW’ 66 Annual Report 1995-1996, National Commission for Women, 3.