161 Vinod Kanjibhai Bhagora v. State of Gujarat & Anr. such as the Appellant herein who has most certainly, implicitly been absorbed by the State Government i.e., the Appellants’ participation in the selection process was prefaced by an NOC from the Central Government; and subsequently was followed by the tender of a technical resignation to the Central Government upon securing employment with the State Government. Pertinently, neither can the aforementioned interpretation sought to be advance on behalf of Respondent No. 1 be said to be echoed by any express provision of the Pension Rules nor has any convincing rationale to adopt such an interpretation, been placed before us. 19. We thus find that the High Court erred in its interpretation of Rule 25(ix) of the Pension Rules; and consequently, unfairly deprived the Appellant from seeking inclusion of the period of service rendered to the Central Government as a part of ‘qualifying service’ under the Pension Rules. 20. Accordingly, we direct Respondent No. 1 to consider the service rendered by the Appellant to the Central Government in his capacity as Postal Assistant in the Gandhinagar Postal Division to be considered as qualifying service; and thereafter (i) re-calculate the terminal benefits / pensionary benefits accruing in favour of the Appellant; and (ii) transmit the arrears (if any) of such terminal benefits / pensionary benefits to the Appellant within 6 (six) weeks from today i.e., 02.02.2024. 21. Upon making the aforementioned payment, Respondent No. 1 shall be free to seek pro-rata re-imbursement / contribution from Respondent No. 2 in respect of terminal benefits / pensionary benefits paid by Respondent No. 1 for the period pertaining to service rendered by the Appellant for the Central Government. 22. The Impugned is set aside; and the appeal stands allowed in the aforesaid terms. Pending application(s), if any, stand disposed of. No as to costs. Headnotes prepared by: Divya Pandey Result of the case: Appeal allowed.