The two decisions were distinguished on the following rationale: “21. […] The basis of the – and the ratio of the decision – in our respectful opinion is that it was case where the tax was measured not with reference to or on the basis of the income or yield of the land but with reference to the amount of royalty payable by the lessee to his lessor. It was for this reason that the tax was held to be not upon the land. Royalty is a matter of agreement between the lessor and the lessee; it may also be determined by a statutory provision. But royalty is not a produce of the land; royalty is not the income of the land nor is the royalty the yield of the land – and that is the distinction.” 381 [1994] Supp. 6 SCR 120 : (1995) Supp. 1 SCC 707 [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1731 Mineral Area Development Authority & Anr. v. M/s Steel Authority of India & Anr. Etc. 307. It is important to note the above observation to the effect that royalty is not the produce, income, or yield of the land. Royalty is paid by a lessee to the lessor as consideration for the exercise of mineral rights. However, does this preclude the State legislature from using royalty as a measure of taxes on mineral-bearing land? We will deal with this issue in greater detail in a later part of the . 308. Another argument which was addressed in Goodricke (supra) was that no land cess can be levied if there is no yield from the tea estate. Justice Jeevan Reddy negatived this contention by observing that a tea estate will not yield produce if it is not properly tended and nurtured. However, an ordinary prudent owner or occupier of a tea estate would take care to properly nurture of the estate. When tax is measured on the basis of the quantum of production, there is a probability that the tax collected would vary depending upon the amount produced. However, the learned Judge observed that uniformity of taxation is not an essential condition. Goodricke (supra) adopted the standard of an ordinary prudent person to infer that the tea estate will generally be properly nurtured. When the yield from land is used as a measure of the tax on land, the tax is essentially assessed on the actual or potential productivity of the land. The majority in Kesoram (supra) approved Goodricke (supra). We will deal with the relevance of the reasoning in Goodricke (supra) in the context of mineral-bearing land in the following segment. 309. The other issue in Goodricke (supra) was the effect of the declaration in Section 2 of the Tea Act 1953 on the competence of the State legislature to levy the land cess. Parliament had enacted the Tea Act in pursuance of Entry 52 of List I of the Seventh Schedule. Section 2 declares that the Union is taking under its control the tea industry in the public interest.