Gandhi & Associates as another joint surveyors. The joint surveyors visited the insured factory jointly and severally on various dates and carried out detailed physical inspection of the subject machine besides carrying out protracted discussions with the Insured official accompanied by Supplier/Manufacturers of the Mill.” 40. The interim survey report noticed that the claim was for Rs.35 Crores and the effective claim excluding excise duty was Rs.30.28 crores. Dealing with the assessment of loss, in Para 14, it was mentioned in the report that the Insured lodged their claim based on the price breakup given by manufacturers which included cost of supply, installation and commissioning but excluded excise, sales tax, transportation and civil works. The report mentioned that the price break-up given was accepted in general at that stage and that comparable cost could not be possible from an alternative source. Most importantly, in Para 14 (1.4), it was provided as under: “Policy provides for Reinstatement clause and Insured have confirmed verbally that they would reinstate the damages without any delay. At this stage, reasonable depreciation and salvage are adjusted for considering conservative on Account Payment.” 41. This clause also reinforces the fact that Reinstatement Value Clause proving for reinstatement by the Insured was part of the policy. So finding at Para 15, the surveyor in their interim report concluded as under: “It may be noted that while assessing the provisional loss, substantial margin has been kept, even after considering the depreciation etc. Based on the limited verification carried out till now, we are of considered opinion that the minimum loss on Reinstatement Value Basis is like to be around Rs. 1500 lacs and the maximum loss on Reinstatement Value Basis after more detailed verifications has been estimated at around Rs. 2500 lacs. [2024] 5 S.C.R. 305 New India Assurance Company Ltd. Through its Manager v. M/s Tata Steel Ltd. In consideration of the Insured’s request for an On Account Payment, should be Underwriters so desire, they may consider an On Account Payment of upto Rs. 720 Lacs at this stage.” It was clearly mentioned that the report was issued without prejudice, and subject to terms and conditions of the relevant insurance policy. 42. This report was followed by a letter issued by the Insured on 10.02.1999. “We undertake that reinstatement of damaged property on account of fire loss caused on 12.12.1998, shall be carried out by us within the stipulated time as per fire policy No.1132160705785. We confirm that suggestions given in the TAC and LPA report will be complied with during the reinstatement of the mill.” On 24.03.1999, on account payment of Rs. 4,98,80,905/- was made. 43. Thereafter, on 10.06.1999, the Insured wrote to M/s Flat Products placing an for repair of the ‘20 Hi Cold Rolling Mill’ and paying them an amount of Rs. 3.75 crores as 15% advance. It transpires that on 06.10.1999, the Chief Vigilance Officer of NIACL addressed a letter to the General Manager, NIACL furnishing a report about an anonymous complaint received stating that the fire was due to arson and that there has been inflated assessments resulting in approval of huge on account payments.