The Rules and Regulations for the Appointment of the Trustees of the MAO College were passed in 1889. The said Rules described the object of MAO College was “primarily the education of Mahomedans and, so far as may be consistent therewith, of Hindus and other persons.” 14. In 1902, the Report of the Indian Universities Commission was published. The said report, with regard to MAO College, it was specifically noted that “no obstacle should be placed in the way of denominational colleges, it is important to maintain the undenominational character of the Universities”. On 24.03.1904, the Indian Universities Act (VIII of 1904) was passed which unified the pre-existing legislation based University regime in British India, repealed the previous Acts, and brought within its purview the five Universities. It also reconstituted the then existing Governing Bodies of the universities and gave statutory recognition to the ‘Syndicates’ in the said Universities. 15. From the late 1800s to 1910, several individuals associated with the MAO College propounded various differing ideas for setting up of [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1925 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. a “University”. In May 1911, representatives from the MAO College met Harcourt Butler, Member of the Governor-General’s Council for the setting up of a “University”. From 1911 till 1913-14, the prayer was for the setting up of a predominantly “denominational” University which would be recognised by the British Indian Government. The stances of parties took a sharp turn on the passing of the Benaras Hindu University Act, 1915 [hereinafter referred to as the “BHU Act”] by the Imperial Legislative Council on 01.10.1915 leading to the establishment of the Benares Hindu University [hereinafter referred to as the “BHU”]. 16. At the said time, as per the British officials in-charge, the “Benares model” as it was then referred, had to be followed. It is sought to be presented that once the movement to establish the BHU gained prominence and acceptance, the tone and tenor of all sides changed. 17. Separately, there were also considerable disagreements within the various groups of the minority community advocating for a University over issues such as recognition by the British Indian Government and extent of control that the British Indian Government would exercise over any such proposed University. As the said matter also involves minute machinations of the working of the colonial government and the views and counter views of various personalities involved in the process, the parties before this Court have sought to highlight one aspect over the other. The various conflicting narratives of the process shall be discussed separately in a particular section of the . 18. On 10.04.1916, the informally formed ‘Moslem University Committee’, which was requesting the British Government to form the University by bringing in an enactment, by a Resolution observed that “it has no other alternative at present, but to accept the principles of the Hindu University Act…”. Once the deck was cleared for the in- principle “acceptance” of having a University on the Benares model, the discussions started on the actual draft of the Aligarh Muslim University Bill.